A mother revealed to her child in a letter after her death that she had just one eye because she had donated the other to him. [SEP] Kastellorizo // crystal carafe with it and brought it to her future mother-in-law, who gave her in return a special cake and an odd number of gold coins. When a child became seriously ill, a woman with knowledge of prayers against the evil eye was invited to her/his home. She drew signs of the cross on the body of the child with a thurible filled with embers and branches of the olive tree which had been gathered in the church on Palm Sunday, pronouncing the following words: "Christ came: then he laid down his stick and chased away the snake and the
A mother revealed to her child in a letter after her death that she had just one eye because she had donated the other to him. [SEP] Diane Schuur // Paulo, Rome, Palermo, Guanajuato, and multiple cities across the United States. Schuur received a financial settlement from her birth hospital for her loss of vision. Prematurity itself is associated with blindness, but it was not universally known at the time of her birth that high levels of oxygen in a neonatal incubator can have a negative effect on the developing retinas of the eyes, thereby increasing the incidence of blindness. The settlement money helped her to buy a house in later years. Schuur was called "Deedle-Babes", "Deeds" and other variations of this name by her mother, who died of cancer
A mother revealed to her child in a letter after her death that she had just one eye because she had donated the other to him. [SEP] Janis Babson // that when she died she wanted to donate her eyes to the Eye Bank. Her parents—Harry Rudolphe (Rudy) Babson, a member of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police and Rita Quinn Babson—knew their daughter was serious about the gift, but it was a big decision for such a young girl. In early 1959, when Janis was eight years old, her mother noticed that she had lost her energy and appetite. Her father took her to the family pediatrician who noted a great increase in white blood cells from a sample he took. He ordered additional tests and referred her to hematologist
A mother revealed to her child in a letter after her death that she had just one eye because she had donated the other to him. [SEP] Portrait of the Artist's Mother at the Age of 63 // After her death her grieving son wrote "This my pious Mother bore and brought up eighteen children; she often had the plague and many other severe and strange illnesses, and she suffered great poverty, scorn, contempt, mocking words, terrors, and great adversities. Yet she bore no malice. She feared Death much, but she said that to come before God she feared not. Also she died hard, and I marked that she saw something dreadful, for she asked for the holy-water, although, for a long time, she had not spoken. Immediately afterwards her eyes closed over. I saw also how Death
A mother revealed to her child in a letter after her death that she had just one eye because she had donated the other to him. [SEP] The Eye (2002 film) // donor. When they ask a village doctor about Ling and her family, he is unwilling to reveal anything but becomes more cooperative when Mun tells him that she sees what Ling used to see. Apparently, Ling had a psychic ability that allowed her to foresee death and disaster. However, her fellow villagers misunderstood her as a jinx and refused to trust her. Once, Ling tried to warn the people about an imminent disaster, but they drove her away in disbelief. When her vision came true, she felt guilty about the deaths and hanged herself. Ling's mother is both depressed and
A mother revealed to her child in a letter after her death that she had just one eye because she had donated the other to him. [SEP] Guddu // his dad will not even consider this. Things take a turn for the worse, when Guddu decides to go to court to assert his right to donate his eyes, his dad ends in the hospital and so does Guddu. Kavita couldn't bear the trauma of her husband's illness and her son's disease, thus she decides to devote herself to god for five days without drinking a sip of water. Her prayers get answered and her husband's life is saved and her son's operation is successful. She dies at the feet of God while praying and her eyes get donated to
A mother revealed to her child in a letter after her death that she had just one eye because she had donated the other to him. [SEP] Nicholas Hughes // literary and biographical writings about her death, Nicholas was not told about the circumstances of his mother's suicide until the 1970s. In 1998 Hughes published "Birthday Letters", over 30 years of poems about Plath, which he dedicated to his two children. In the poem "Life After Death" Hughes recounts how: <poem> Your son's eyes... would become So perfectly your eyes, Became wet jewels The hardest substance of the purest pain As I fed him in his high white chair. </poem> Hughes was passionate about wildlife, especially fish. He attended Oxford University, receiving a BA degree in zoology in 1984. From
A mother revealed to her child in a letter after her death that she had just one eye because she had donated the other to him. [SEP] Florida Hospital Wauchula // Mays were born within days of each other and were switched and sent home with the wrong parents. Relatives of one of the mothers were prominent in the opening of Hardee Memorial. One was involved in the building and financing of the hospital and another was on the hospital board of trustees. The baby swap was discovered ten years later, when one baby died of a congenital heart defect and laboratory testing showed the baby was not related to her parents. In 1992 author Loretta Schwartz-Nobel published a book about the incident. The book, "The Baby Swap Conspiracy", also inspired
A mother revealed to her child in a letter after her death that she had just one eye because she had donated the other to him. [SEP] One-Eye, Two-Eyes, and Three-Eyes // unkind than before. One day a Knight came riding along. Little One Eye and Little Three Eyes pushed Little Two Eyes under an empty cask nearby so the Knight would not see her. The Knight stopped to admire the beautiful tree and asked who it belonged to, saying that whoever would give him a twig from the tree could have whatever they wanted. The two sisters told him that the tree belonged to them and that they would certainly break a twig off for him. But just as before the twigs and fruit bent away from their hands whenever they
A mother revealed to her child in a letter after her death that she had just one eye because she had donated the other to him. [SEP] Ruth Benedict // Because of this, the psychological effects on her childhood were profound, for "in one stroke she [Ruth] experienced the loss of the two most nourishing and protective people around her—the loss of her father at death and her mother to grief". As a toddler, she contracted measles which left her partially deaf, which was not discovered until she began school. Ruth also had a fascination with death as a young child. When she was four years old her grandmother took her to see an infant that had recently died. Upon seeing the dead child's face, Ruth claimed that it was
Study says too many Americans still drink too much. [SEP] Binge drinking // than seven standard drinks per week or three drinks per day. Despite this risk, a 2014 report in the National Survey on Drug Use and Health found that only 10% of either "heavy drinkers" or "binge drinkers" also met the criteria for alcohol dependence, while only 1.3% of non-binge drinkers met this criteria. An inference drawn in this study is that evidence-based policy strategies and clinical preventive services may effectively reduce binge drinking without requiring addiction treatment in most cases. Binge drinking is more common in men than it is in women. Among students in the US, approximately 50% of
Study says too many Americans still drink too much. [SEP] Culture of the United States // coffee to tea, and more than half the adult population drinks at least one cup a day. Marketing by U.S. industries is largely responsible for making orange juice and milk (now often fat-reduced) ubiquitous breakfast beverages. During the 1980s and 1990s, Americans' caloric intake rose 24%; frequent dining at fast food outlets is associated with what health officials call the American "obesity epidemic." Highly sweetened soft drinks are popular; sugared beverages account for 9% of the average American's daily caloric intake. Hamburgers, fries, and doughnuts are considered American foods. Some representative American foods Family arrangements in the United States reflect
Study says too many Americans still drink too much. [SEP] Alcoholism // exceeds 14 standard drinks per week or 4 drinks per day, and women may be at risk if they have more than 7 standard drinks per week or 3 drinks per day. It defines a standard drink as one 12-ounce bottle of beer, one 5-ounce glass of wine, or 1.5 ounces of distilled spirits. Despite this risk, a 2014 report in the National Survey on Drug Use and Health found that only 10% of either "heavy drinkers" or "binge drinkers" defined according to the above criteria also met the criteria for alcohol dependence, while only 1.3% of non-binge drinkers met
Study says too many Americans still drink too much. [SEP] Alcoholism // more than two alcoholic beverages a day for men and no more than one alcoholic beverage a day for women. Some drinkers may drink more than 600 ml of alcohol per day during a heavy drinking period. The National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism (NIAAA) defines binge drinking as the amount of alcohol leading to a blood alcohol content (BAC) of 0.08, which, for most adults, would be reached by consuming five drinks for men or four for women over a two-hour period. According to the NIAAA, men may be at risk for alcohol-related problems if their alcohol consumption
Study says too many Americans still drink too much. [SEP] Alcohol consumption by youth in the United States // declined steadily over the past three decades, and continues to decline annually. According to a United States Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration study involving 30,000 youths aged 12 to 20 years old, between 2002 and 2013 the percentage of underage drinkers declined from 28.8% to 22.7%. Underage binge drinkers decreased 19.3% to 14.2%. A December 2014 study performed by the University of Michigan also found that 75% of senior high school students disapproved of drinking excessively on the weekends. Alcohol still proved to be the favored substance of abuse among American youths however, with tobacco and illicit drugs
Study says too many Americans still drink too much. [SEP] Unit of alcohol // binge drinking. Since 1995 the advice was that regular consumption of 3–4 units a day for men, or 2–3 units a day for women, would not pose significant health risks, but that consistently drinking four or more units a day (men), or three or more units a day (women), is not advisable. An international study of about 6,000 men and 11,000 women for a total of 75,000 person-years found that people who reported that they drank more than a threshold value of 2 units of alcohol a day had a higher risk of fractures than non-drinkers. For example, those who
Study says too many Americans still drink too much. [SEP] Native American disease and epidemics // and 2013, covered more than 21,000 Native Americans and 1 million whites) about 17 percent of whites and Native Americans were binge drinkers. When asked about the last time they had a drink, 40% percent of Native Americans had a drink during the previous month, compared to 43 percent of whites who did consume alcohol in the previous month. Despite only drinking marginally less than white people, Native Americans may be more vulnerable to the risks associated with drinking because of other issues, such as a lack of access to health care, safe housing and clean water HIV and AIDS
Study says too many Americans still drink too much. [SEP] Binge drinking // consume five or more drinks, and when women consume four or more drinks, in about two hours." and estimated that about 16% of American adults met these binge drinking criteria four times per month. One 2001 definition from the publication "Psychology of Addictive Behavior" states that five drinks for men and four drinks for women must be consumed on one occasion at least once in a two-week period for it to be classed as binge drinking. This is colloquially known as the "5/4 definition", and depending on the source, the timeframe can vary. In the United Kingdom, binge drinking is
Study says too many Americans still drink too much. [SEP] Alcoholic drink // stupor, unconsciousness, or death. Long-term use can lead to alcohol abuse, physical dependence, and alcoholism. Alcohol is one of the most widely used recreational drugs in the world with about 33% of people being current drinkers. women on average drink 0.7 drinks and males 1.7 drinks a day. In 2015, among Americans, 86% of adults had consumed alcohol at some point, 70% had drunk it in the last year, and 56% in the last month. Alcoholic drinks are typically divided into three classes—beers, wines, and spirits—and typically their alcohol content is between 3% and 50%. Discovery of late Stone Age
Study says too many Americans still drink too much. [SEP] Impact of alcohol on aging // and other risks, the American Heart Association cautions people not to start drinking. A study published in August 2010 in the journal, “Alcoholism: Clinical and Experimental Research,” followed 1,824 participants between the ages of 55 and 65 and found that even after adjusting for all suspected covariates, abstainers and heavy drinkers continued to show increased mortality risks of 51 and 45%, respectively, compared to moderate drinkers. A follow-up study lists several cautions in interpreting the findings. For example, the results do not address nor endorse initiation of drinking among nondrinkers, and persons who have medical conditions which would be worsened
Viral image Says 80% of novel coronavirus cases are "mild. [SEP] Coronaviridae // Coronaviridae Coronaviridae is a family of enveloped, positive-sense, single-stranded RNA viruses. The viral genome is 26–32 kb in length. Virions are spherical, 120–160 nm across ("Coronavirinae"), bacilliform, 170–200 by 75–88 nm ("Bafinivirus") or found as a mixture of both, with bacilliform particles characteristically bent into crescents ("Torovirus"). The particles are typically decorated with large (~20 nm), club- or petal-shaped surface projections (the “peplomers” or “spikes”), which in electron micrographs of spherical particles create an image reminiscent of the solar corona. Members of this family are thus referred to as "coronaviruses", as are members of the subfamily "Coronavirinae". The 5' and
Viral image Says 80% of novel coronavirus cases are "mild. [SEP] Coronavirus // Coronavirus Coronaviruses are species of virus belonging to the subfamily "Coronavirinae" in the family "Coronaviridae", in the order Nidovirales. Coronaviruses are enveloped viruses with a positive-sense single-stranded RNA genome and with a nucleocapsid of helical symmetry. The genomic size of coronaviruses ranges from approximately 26 to 32 kilobases, the largest for an RNA virus. The name "coronavirus" is derived from the Latin "corona", meaning crown or halo, and refers to the characteristic appearance of virions under electron microscopy (E.M.) with a fringe of large, bulbous surface projections creating an image reminiscent of a royal crown or of the solar corona.
Viral image Says 80% of novel coronavirus cases are "mild. [SEP] Coronaviridae // selection and packaging is critical for developing antiviral strategies and viral expression vectors based on the coronavirus genome. Coronaviridae Coronaviridae is a family of enveloped, positive-sense, single-stranded RNA viruses. The viral genome is 26–32 kb in length. Virions are spherical, 120–160 nm across ("Coronavirinae"), bacilliform, 170–200 by 75–88 nm ("Bafinivirus") or found as a mixture of both, with bacilliform particles characteristically bent into crescents ("Torovirus"). The particles are typically decorated with large (~20 nm), club- or petal-shaped surface projections (the “peplomers” or “spikes”), which in electron micrographs of spherical particles create an image reminiscent of the solar corona. Members of
Viral image Says 80% of novel coronavirus cases are "mild. [SEP] Human coronavirus NL63 // in approximately 4.7% of common respiratory illnesses. Further studies confirmed that the virus is not an emerging virus, but rather one that continually circulates the human population. The first cases of the infection with HCoV-NL63 were found in young children with severe lower respiratory tract infections admitted to hospitals. While the clinical presentation of the virus can be severe, it has also been found in mild cases of respiratory infection. The comorbidity of HCoV-NL63 with other respiratory infections, has made the specific symptoms of the virus difficult to pinpoint. A study of clinical symptoms in HCoV-NL63 patients without secondary infection,
Viral image Says 80% of novel coronavirus cases are "mild. [SEP] Human coronavirus OC43 // cases occurring in the winter months. Human coronavirus OC43 Human coronavirus OC43 is an enveloped, positive-stranded RNA virus in the species "Betacoronavirus-1" (genus "Betacoronavirus", subfamily "Coronavirinae", family "Coronaviridae", order "Nidovirales"). Four HCoV-OC43 genotypes (A to D), have been identified with genotype D most likely arising from recombination. The complete genome sequencing of two genotype C and D strains and bootscan analysis shows recombination events between genotypes B and C in the generation of genotype D. Of 29 strains identified, none belong to the more ancient genotype A. Molecular clock analysis using spike and nucleocapsid genes dates the most recent common
Viral image Says 80% of novel coronavirus cases are "mild. [SEP] SARS coronavirus // SARS coronavirus is a positive and single stranded RNA virus belonging to a family of enveloped coronaviruses. Its genome is about 29.7kb, which is one of the largest among RNA viruses. The SARS virus has 13 known genes and 14 known proteins. There are 265 nucleotides in the 5'UTR and 342 nucleotides in the 3'UTR. SARS is similar to other coronaviruses in that its genome expression starts with translation of two large ORFs, 1a and 1b, both of which are polyproteins. The functions of several of these proteins are known: ORFs 1a and 1b encode the replicase and there are
Viral image Says 80% of novel coronavirus cases are "mild. [SEP] Coronavirus // in a small number of nucleotides. In 2003, following the outbreak of Severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) which had begun the prior year in Asia, and secondary cases elsewhere in the world, the World Health Organization (WHO) issued a press release stating that a novel coronavirus identified by a number of laboratories was the causative agent for SARS. The virus was officially named the SARS coronavirus (SARS-CoV). The epidemic resulted in over 8,000 infections, about 10% of which resulted in death. X-ray crystallography studies performed at the Advanced Light Source of Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory have begun to give hope
Viral image Says 80% of novel coronavirus cases are "mild. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // of unknown origin. Of the six, two died. All the cases were reported to the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC). After the September identification of a novel CoV strain, a retroactive analysis of the hospital workers was performed. Epidemiologists discovered the Jordan cases. Using stored laboratory samples for all six, it was found that samples from the two patients who had died tested positive for nCoV. On 24 April 2014, a 25-year-old male was found positive for the coronavirus. He had history of exposure to camels and had consumed camel milk. The Ministry of Health and Medical
Viral image Says 80% of novel coronavirus cases are "mild. [SEP] Coronaviridae // responsible for the helical symmetry of the nucleocapsid that encloses the genomic RNA. Group: ssRNA(+) There are currently a total of 25 species assigned to this family, twenty of which belong to the subfamily "Coronavirinae". Coronaviruses are transmitted by faecal-oral route or by aerosols of respiratory secretions. Coronaviruses infect a wide range of mammals and birds and occur worldwide. Although most diseases are mild, sometimes they can cause more severe situations in humans, such as, for example, the infection of the respiratory tract known as Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS). They can also cause enteric infections in very young infants
Viral image Says 80% of novel coronavirus cases are "mild. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // and from that family at least one additional person presented similar symptoms but tested negative for the novel coronavirus. On 21 February 2013, WHO stated that there had been 13 laboratory-confirmed cases, 6 cases (4 fatal) from Saudi Arabia, 2 cases (both fatal) from Jordan, 2 cases from Qatar, and 3 from the UK. In March 2013, the Saudi Arabia Ministry of Health reported the death of a 39-year-old man, the 15th case and 9th death reported to WHO. On 2 May 2013, the Saudi Ministry of Health announced five people died and two other people were in critical condition
An email says that 9-year old Craig Shergold of Carshalton, Great Britain is dying of Cancer.  As a dying wish, he wants to get into the Guinness Book of World Records by collecting the most greeting cards of anybody in history.  The email asks that the cards be sent to an address of the Make-A-Wish Foundation. [SEP] Craig Shergold // Craig Shergold Craig Shergold (born 24 June 1979) is a British former cancer patient who received an estimated 350 million greeting cards, earning him a place in the "Guinness Book of World Records". Variations of the plea for greeting cards on his behalf in 1989 are still being distributed through the Internet, making the plea one of the most persistent urban legends. In 1988 Craig Shergold began complaining of ear aches. After antibiotics were unsuccessful in treating his symptoms, in 1989 doctors diagnosed him, at the age of nine, with what they considered terminal brain cancer. Craig's friends and relatives
An email says that 9-year old Craig Shergold of Carshalton, Great Britain is dying of Cancer.  As a dying wish, he wants to get into the Guinness Book of World Records by collecting the most greeting cards of anybody in history.  The email asks that the cards be sent to an address of the Make-A-Wish Foundation. [SEP] Craig Shergold // began a chain letter campaign requesting individuals to send greeting cards to him with the goal of beating the "Guinness Book of World Records" for 1,000,065 greeting cards received. Craig received greeting cards from all over the world including celebrities like Madonna and Arnold Schwarzenegger. The Children's Wish Foundation became involved in the campaign in the early stages and quickly became overwhelmed by the volume of cards being received, though they later disavowed any connection with the chain letter campaigns. The campaign was successful and Shergold's name was added to the "1991 Guinness Book of World Records" as having received
An email says that 9-year old Craig Shergold of Carshalton, Great Britain is dying of Cancer.  As a dying wish, he wants to get into the Guinness Book of World Records by collecting the most greeting cards of anybody in history.  The email asks that the cards be sent to an address of the Make-A-Wish Foundation. [SEP] Craig Shergold // 16,250,692 get-well cards by May 1990, and again in the "1992 Guinness Book of World Records" as having received 33 million cards by May 1991. Craig's cancer worsened. His British doctors estimated he might only have a few weeks of life remaining and suggested the family bring him home for the last few weeks. Virginia billionaire John Kluge, founder of Metromedia, learned of Shergold's illness and arranged for him to travel to the United States for a new type of operation. He was operated on in 1991 at the University of Virginia Medical Center, where a physician was able to
An email says that 9-year old Craig Shergold of Carshalton, Great Britain is dying of Cancer.  As a dying wish, he wants to get into the Guinness Book of World Records by collecting the most greeting cards of anybody in history.  The email asks that the cards be sent to an address of the Make-A-Wish Foundation. [SEP] Craig Shergold // recycling center. In 1993, Shergold's mother, Marion, wrote a book about her son's story entitled, "Craig Shergold : A Mother's Story". On 10 November 2001, PAX TV aired a made-for-TV movie, "The Miracle of the Cards". The movie starred Thomas Sangster as Shergold and also featured Kirk Cameron as a cynical reporter. Guinness World Records has retired the record and requested that individuals no longer respond to any requests for greeting cards. Craig Shergold Craig Shergold (born 24 June 1979) is a British former cancer patient who received an estimated 350 million greeting cards, earning him a place in the
An email says that 9-year old Craig Shergold of Carshalton, Great Britain is dying of Cancer.  As a dying wish, he wants to get into the Guinness Book of World Records by collecting the most greeting cards of anybody in history.  The email asks that the cards be sent to an address of the Make-A-Wish Foundation. [SEP] The Miracle of the Cards // 1988 is diagnosed with a brain tumor. Although the prognosis is negative, Craig's mother Marion (Catherine Oxenberg) becomes convinced that there is a cure for it, and that the means of finding that cure is to break the Guinness World Record for receiving greeting cards. Broadcasting a plea to everyone in the world, Marion is successful in bringing 350 million cards to Craig's door. One of those cards provides the key for Craig's ultimate salvation. A cynical reporter, Josh (Kirk Cameron), finds himself witnessing a miracle he can hardly believe. The Miracle of the Cards The Miracle of the Cards
An email says that 9-year old Craig Shergold of Carshalton, Great Britain is dying of Cancer.  As a dying wish, he wants to get into the Guinness Book of World Records by collecting the most greeting cards of anybody in history.  The email asks that the cards be sent to an address of the Make-A-Wish Foundation. [SEP] Craig Shergold // remove virtually all of the tumor except for a benign fragment. Craig grew into a healthy adult. Even after his recovery, the chain letter continued to circulate and millions of greeting cards continued to flow to Shergold's home. Craig estimated that by 1998, he had received a total of 250 million cards. Variants of the chain mail changed Craig's name to "Craig Shelford", "Craig Stafford", "Craig Shefford", or even "Greg Sherwood". Another variant involves requests for business cards. The Royal Mail gave their home its own postal code because of the volume of mail they received. To avoid the deluge
An email says that 9-year old Craig Shergold of Carshalton, Great Britain is dying of Cancer.  As a dying wish, he wants to get into the Guinness Book of World Records by collecting the most greeting cards of anybody in history.  The email asks that the cards be sent to an address of the Make-A-Wish Foundation. [SEP] Craig Shergold // of mail, the family halted mail delivery and later moved. Since 1989, Craig has received approximately 350 million greeting cards. As an adult, Craig does not make any public appearances other than to express his new wish–for the mail to stop. , he continues to receive cards, sent to his old address. The Make-A-Wish Foundation also states on their Web site that they do not engage in chain letters or telemarketing activities and also denies any involvement in fulfilling Craig's original wish, stating that it was done by another wish-granting organization. Any mail that is received is forwarded to a
An email says that 9-year old Craig Shergold of Carshalton, Great Britain is dying of Cancer.  As a dying wish, he wants to get into the Guinness Book of World Records by collecting the most greeting cards of anybody in history.  The email asks that the cards be sent to an address of the Make-A-Wish Foundation. [SEP] Sick baby hoax // the problem efficiently (relying on user takedown requests and reports only), several scam- and hoax-combatting websites have worked together to raise the awareness of social media providers regarding this issue. It was observed that these may often be a mischievous modification of the true story of one Craig Shergold, a child with brain cancer, whose efforts were to enter the Guinness Book of Records for receiving most get-well greeting cards. Sick baby hoax A sick baby hoax is a confidence trick where a person claims, often on a website, that they have an ill child and are struggling to pay
An email says that 9-year old Craig Shergold of Carshalton, Great Britain is dying of Cancer.  As a dying wish, he wants to get into the Guinness Book of World Records by collecting the most greeting cards of anybody in history.  The email asks that the cards be sent to an address of the Make-A-Wish Foundation. [SEP] Make-A-Wish Foundation UK // called Ben – who wished to be a chef for the day after he was diagnosed with leukaemia when he was 5 years old. A wish is a special experience for a child or young person fighting a life-threatening condition. Wishes can range from being a princess or being a business owner for the day or meeting a hero, to going on a once-in-a-lifetime family holiday. To receive a wish, a child must be between the ages of 3 and 17 years, living in the UK, and fighting a life-threatening condition. Make-A-Wish UK contacts each child’s medical consultant to establish
An email says that 9-year old Craig Shergold of Carshalton, Great Britain is dying of Cancer.  As a dying wish, he wants to get into the Guinness Book of World Records by collecting the most greeting cards of anybody in history.  The email asks that the cards be sent to an address of the Make-A-Wish Foundation. [SEP] Stephen Sutton // to get a diagnosis as doctors did not believe that colorectal cancer could occur in a teenager. Sutton made a "bucket list" of things to do in his final months, successfully achieving many of them including becoming a Guinness World Records holder. He began fundraising for the Teenage Cancer Trust, receiving support from celebrities and politicians. In 2013, he met filmmaker Grigorij Richters, who recorded him for a documentary. Sutton died in hospital on 14 May 2014, at age 19. A memorial service to him at Lichfield Cathedral was attended by over 10,000 mourners. After his death, Sutton was posthumously
Roche's schizophrenia drug misses goal in two late-stage trials. [SEP] Bitopertin // 66% on placebo (p<0.05, per-protocol population). In January 2014, Roche reported that bitopertin failed to meet its endpoints in two phase III trials assessing its efficacy in reducing negative symptoms of schizophrenia. Subsequently, in April 2014, Roche announced that it was discontinuing all of its phase III trials of bitopertin for schizophrenia except for one. Though Roche has largely ceased its studies of bitopertin for schizophrenia, it is also investigating the drug in the treatment of obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD), and is continuing its development for this indication. As of August 2014, bitopertin is in phase II clinical trials for OCD.
Roche's schizophrenia drug misses goal in two late-stage trials. [SEP] Tamas Bartfai // for 'heartburn', as a consultant to Roche, the catechol-O-methyltransferase inhibitor (Tasmar-tolcapone) used in Parkinson's Disease, the first benzodiazepine–antagonist (flunitrazepam) for treatment of benzodiazepine overdoses, and as a consultant to Novartis the sphingosine 1-phosphate agonist gilenya-fingolimod as the first oral multiple sclerosis drug. He has also worked on four current drug candidates that as of 2015, are in phase 2 and 3 clinical trials. One of the most promising ones is the amyloid Αβ antibody that the Banner Alzheimer's Institute, Roche and the U.S. government are testing in Colombia for prevention of Alzheimer's disease in a large cohort with a familial
Roche's schizophrenia drug misses goal in two late-stage trials. [SEP] LY-404,039 // Company announced their decision to stop their ongoing clinical studies investigating LY-2140023 as a treatment for schizophrenia after their phase II study did not meet its primary endpoint. The company completed a phase II, randomized, double-blind, placebo- and active-controlled, parallel-group-assignment, dose-ranging, inpatient, multi-center clinical trial. Patients were randomized to receive 5, 20, 40, or 80 mg of LY-2140023, placebo, or olanzapine for 28 days. Results of the clinical trial indicated that neither LY-2140023 nor olanzapine were significantly more efficacious than the placebo as determined with PANSS total scores. Post hoc analyses indicated only a trend towards improvement with LY-2140023, while
Roche's schizophrenia drug misses goal in two late-stage trials. [SEP] Pembrolizumab // chances of proving the drug would work and would make clinical trials faster. (The trials would need fewer patients because of the likelihood of greater effect size.) Moving quickly and reducing the risk of failure was essential for catching up with Bristol-Myers Squibb, which had an approximate five year lead over Merck. The phase I study started in early 2011, and Eric Rubin, who was running the melanoma trial, argued for and was able to win expansion of the trial until it reached around 1300 people. This was the largest Phase I study ever run in oncology, with the patients
Roche's schizophrenia drug misses goal in two late-stage trials. [SEP] Mad in America // patients on medications. He then describes fifty years of American scientists doing experiments on schizoprenia patients: to intentionally exacerbate their symptoms and study the results. He compares the doctors' behavior, unfavorably, to 1947 after American trials of Nazi doctors ended in the Nuremberg Code for ethics in human experimentation. Part Four is Whitaker's description of drug trials for the newer atypical antipsychotics. He says that many of these trials were stacked in favor of the drug being proposed by eliminating the placebo, or by comparing multiple doses of the new drug against a single, very high dose of the old
Roche's schizophrenia drug misses goal in two late-stage trials. [SEP] Pimavanserin // and the results showed that pimavanserin potentiated the antipsychotic effects of subtherapeutic doses of risperidone and improved the tolerability of haloperidol treatment by reducing the incidence of extrapyramidal symptoms. The drug met expectations for a Phase III clinical trial for the treatment of Parkinson's disease psychosis, and has completed Phase II trials for adjunctive treatment of schizophrenia alongside an antipsychotic medication. On September 2, 2014, the United States Food and Drug Administration granted Breakthrough Therapy status to Acadia's New Drug Application for pimavanserin. It was approved by the FDA to treat hallucinations and delusions associated with psychosis experienced by some
Roche's schizophrenia drug misses goal in two late-stage trials. [SEP] Antipsychotic // bipolar disorder instead. The goals of treatment of these patients include reducing symptoms and potentially improving long-term treatment outcomes. Randomized clinical trials have provided evidence for the efficacy of antipsychotic drugs in achieving the former goal, with first-generation and second generation antipsychotics showing about equal efficacy. Evidence that early treatment has a favorable effect on long term outcomes is equivocal. Placebo-controlled trials of both first and second generation antipsychotic drugs consistently demonstrate the superiority of active drug to placebo in suppressing psychotic symptoms. A large meta-analysis of 38 trials of antipsychotic drugs in schizophrenia acute psychotic episodes showed an effect
Roche's schizophrenia drug misses goal in two late-stage trials. [SEP] Bifeprunox // atypical antipsychotics will instead of antagonizing D receptors, will act as partial agonists, as well as partial agonists towards 5-HT receptors. In a multi-center, placebo-controlled study, 20 mg of bifeprunox was found to be significantly more effective than placebo at reducing symptoms of schizophrenia, with a low incidence of side effects. An NDA for Bifeprunox was filed with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration in January 2007. The FDA rejected the application in August 2007. In June 2009, Solvay and Lundbeck decided to cease development because "efficacy data did not support pursuing the existing development strategy of stabilisation of non-acute
Roche's schizophrenia drug misses goal in two late-stage trials. [SEP] Atypical antipsychotic // thereafter. Clozapine (Clozaril), an atypical antipsychotic, fell out of favor due to concerns over drug-induced agranulocytosis. Following research indicating its effectiveness in treatment-resistant schizophrenia and the development of an adverse event monitoring system, clozapine re-emerged as a viable antipsychotic. According to Barker (2003), the three most-accepted atypical drugs are clozapine, risperidone, and olanzapine. However, he goes on to explain that clozapine is usually the last resort when other drugs fail. Clozapine can cause agranulocytosis (a decreased number of white blood cells), requiring blood monitoring for the patient. Despite the effectiveness of clozapine for treatment-resistant schizophrenia, agents with a more favorable
Roche's schizophrenia drug misses goal in two late-stage trials. [SEP] LY-404,039 // as an adjuvant to the antipsychotic medications already used by patients participating in the study utilized a lower dose of 20 mg BID. If treatment was well-tolerated after a week at this target dose, the dose was increased to 40 mg BID. However, if the 20 mg dose was not well-tolerated, the dose was decreased to 10 mg. In 2007, a randomized phase II clinical trial showed that LY-2140023 taken twice daily for 4 weeks improved schizophrenia symptoms as measured with the PANSS and CGI-S when compared to placebo. However, post hoc analysis did not demonstrate a statistically significant difference
Doctors end protest to demand flu vaccines for migrants. [SEP] Influenza vaccine // care are recommended to receive the seasonal flu vaccine, and were also recommended to be vaccinated against the H1N1/09 (later renamed A(H1N1)pdm09) swine flu virus during the 2009 pandemic. However, uptake is often low. During the 2009 pandemic, low uptake by healthcare workers was seen in countries including the UK, Italy, Greece, and Hong Kong. In a 2010 survey of United States healthcare workers, 63.5% reported that they received the flu vaccine during the 2010–11 season, an increase from 61.9% reported the previous season. US Health professionals with direct patient contact had higher vaccination uptake, such as physicians and dentists
Doctors end protest to demand flu vaccines for migrants. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic by country // which allowed health authorities to have a special budget. The government purchased 400,000 oseltamivir (Tamiflu) doses, to be distributed through the Social Protection ministry. Health officials examined arrivals with flu symptoms. On 29 April, Ecuador closed its borders to Mexican citizens and foreigners of other nationalities arriving from Mexico for 30 days. On 15 May, health officials confirmed the first case in Ecuador. On 20 May, the Health Department confirmed 7 more new cases, raising the total to 8, and then to 41. The first case in Peru was confirmed on 14 May. On 17 May, the second case was
Doctors end protest to demand flu vaccines for migrants. [SEP] Ewa Kopacz // demanding they take full responsibility for the side effects. She advised the Polish government to wait until proper testing had been done on the vaccine before investing in it, citing the fact that seasonal flu exceeds the current WHO criteria for pandemic every year but there has been no declaration of a pandemic of this much more dangerous seasonal flu. The Polish government refused to purchase the vaccine in question. Pro-life activists in Poland had called for her excommunication after she was involved in arranging, in accordance with Polish law, an abortion for a 14-year-old girl, citing Canon 1398, which
Doctors end protest to demand flu vaccines for migrants. [SEP] Medical exclusion of immigrants // acquired immune deficiency syndrome’”. HIV was later removed from the exclusions in 2009 and effective by law on January 4, 2010. The vaccination requirement was added with the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996. Vaccinations were required for “nine ‘vaccine-preventable diseases’” including: “mumps, measles, rubella, polio, tetanus and diphtheria toxoids, pertussis, influenza type B and hepatitis B”. There were four inspection lines separated by iron railings, which then converge into two lines As the immigrants, primarily European, walked through the lines there were six details of quick glance inspection: “the scalp, face, neck, hands, gait, and general
Doctors end protest to demand flu vaccines for migrants. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic in Mexico // to decrease the risk of more infections. Hundreds of soldiers and police officers mobilized by the government have handed out six million surgical masks to citizens in and around Mexico City. On April 24, 2009, schools (from pre-school to university level) as well as libraries, museums, concerts and any public gathering place, were shut down by the government in Mexico City and the neighboring State of Mexico to prevent the disease from spreading further; schools in Mexico City, the State of Mexico, and the state of San Luis Potosí will remain closed through at least May 5. Marcelo Ebrard, Mexico
Doctors end protest to demand flu vaccines for migrants. [SEP] Cuban medical internationalism // the Cuban people." According to a 2007 paper published in "The Lancet" medical journal, "growing numbers of Cuban doctors sent overseas to work are defecting to the USA", some via Colombia, where they have sought temporary asylum. In February 2007, at least 38 doctors were requesting asylum in the U.S. embassy in Bogotá after asylum was denied by the Colombian government. Cuban doctors working abroad are reported to be monitored by "minders" and subject to curfew. According to Luis Zuñiga, director of human rights for the Cuban American National Foundation, Cuban doctors are "slave workers" who labor for meager wages
Doctors end protest to demand flu vaccines for migrants. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic in Asia // the government found visitors to Laos included people coming from the United States, Spain and other affected countries. The Prime Minister Bouasone Bouphavanh said masks should be made available and health officials would be assigned to work at border checkpoints. The machines would help officials identify anyone entering the country with a high temperature and create confidence among Lao people, foreigners living in Laos and people travelling to Laos. Health officials would be on hand at international border checkpoints to ensure anyone found to be infected could be treated immediately. On 18 June, the first case in Laos was confirmed.
Doctors end protest to demand flu vaccines for migrants. [SEP] Five Star Movement // Luigi Di Maio, who led the M5S in the 2018 election, called for "an immediate stop to the sea-taxi service" bringing migrants to Europe. The Five-Star Movement has strong links to anti-vaccination activists, and party leaders have called for rolling back mandatory vaccination laws. About the politics of the European Union and the Euro, the M5S has often been highly critical, but like on other issues its position is ambiguous. On 12 June 2014, the M5S having been rejected by both the Greens/EFA, and the ALDE European Parliament groups, offered its activists a limited-choice online referendum to choose a group
Doctors end protest to demand flu vaccines for migrants. [SEP] Amauris Samartino Flores // Bolivia who were being denied asylum and travel visas. In January 2011, the website of the Norwegian state media organization, NRK, featured a major article about the Cuban medical system based largely on Samartino's testimony. Entitled “Behind the facade, there is only misery,” the article quoted Samartino as saying that Cuba's “low infant-mortality rate is a lie,” that patients in many Cuban hospitals have to supply their own food and bedsheets, and that it health personnel routinely falsify statistics. Amauris Samartino Flores Amauris Samartino Flores is a Cuban physician who escaped from his native country in 1999 in a makeshift
Doctors end protest to demand flu vaccines for migrants. [SEP] Ab Osterhaus // Medical Research Professor John J. Skehel from London. Osterhaus has been criticised for what has been described as a 'fear campaign', for exaggerating the consequences of the 2009 flu pandemic and pushing for extensive measures, even though the pandemic influenza (H1N1) is now treated as if it were a common flu. Physician and microbiologist Miquel Ekkelenkamp called Osterhaus a 'scaremonger' in an opinion piece in "nrc.next" and said: "'Expert' Osterhaus should be banned indefinitely from television. Everything he claimed turned out to be untrue: we're not all going to die like we did in 1918, not everyone needs a vaccination,
New Chemo Drug May Benefit Some Breast Cancer Patients [SEP] Adjuvant therapy // which the potential benefits must be evaluated against the toxicity and cost of treatment and other potential side effects. Giving two or more chemotheraputic agents at once may decrease the chances of recurrence of the cancer, and increase overall survival in patients with breast cancer. Commonly used combination chemotherapy regimines used include: Roughly 15% of ovarian cancers are detected at the early stage, at which the 5-year survival rate is 92%. A Norwegian meta-analysis of 22 randomized studies involving early-stage ovarian cancer revealed the likelihood that 8 out of 10 women treated with cisplatin after the initial surgery were overtreated.
New Chemo Drug May Benefit Some Breast Cancer Patients [SEP] Eribulin // breast cancer who have received at least two prior chemotherapy regimens for late-stage disease, including both anthracycline- and taxane-based chemotherapies. It was approved by Health Canada on December 14, 2011, for treatment of patients with metastatic breast cancer who have previously received at least two chemotherapeutic regimens for the treatment of metastatic disease. Metastatic breast cancer impacts about 150,000 people in the USA, due to the patient population, Eisai was able to file and New Drug Application (NDA) under the orphan and rare disease designation. On January 28, 2016 the US FDA approved Halaven for the treatment of inoperable liposarcoma
New Chemo Drug May Benefit Some Breast Cancer Patients [SEP] Metastatic breast cancer // research. Several medications are in development or in phase I/II trials. Typically new medications and treatments are first tested in metastatic cancer before trials in primary cancer are attempted. Another area of research is finding combination treatments which provide higher efficacy with reduced toxicity and side effects. Experimental medications: Scheduling of drug treatments and combination treatment can have substantial impact on treatment efficacy. Nanomedicine is being studied, and there are several developments involving the targeting of cancer cells using nanoprobes. Some instances where nanoprobes are used to target specific tumor cells (based on the organ to which they have metastasized)
New Chemo Drug May Benefit Some Breast Cancer Patients [SEP] Metastatic breast cancer // Vinorelbine is also active in metastatic breast cancer. Eribulin was approved in the US in Nov 2010. A targeted therapy drug, Kadcyla, was approved in February 2013. This antibody-drug conjugate targets only cancerous cells. It works by only releasing its toxic payload when triggered by a protein found in the cancerous cells in HER2+ breast cancer. It has extremely low side effects using this target therapy method. For estrogen-receptor-positive metastatic breast carcinoma the first line of therapy is often tamoxifen or another anti-estrogen drug unless there are liver metastases, significant lung involvement, rapidly progressive disease or severe symptoms requiring immediate
New Chemo Drug May Benefit Some Breast Cancer Patients [SEP] Kalos Therapeutics // effects associated with chemotherapeutic or small molecule compounds. KT-220, the current lead drug candidate, demonstrates remarkably broad anti-cancer activity. KT-220 has inhibited the growth of pancreatic, lung, prostate, breast, ovarian, colon, and melanoma cells in culture and of pancreatic, breast, and lung cancer tumors in models of human cancer. George Colberg - Chairman & CEO James Merritt, M.D. - President and Chief Medical Officer Gregory F. Witchel, MBA - Executive Vice President Daniel Von Hoff, MD, FACP - Chairman, Scientific Advisory Board David L. Vesely, MD, PhD - Scientific Advisory Board Marc B. Garnick, MD - Scientific Advisory Board Patrice
New Chemo Drug May Benefit Some Breast Cancer Patients [SEP] Hormonal therapy (oncology) // chemoprevention of breast cancer. Some members of this family, such as tamoxifen, are actually partial agonists, which can actually "increase" estrogen receptor signalling in some tissues, such as the endometrium. Tamoxifen is currently first-line treatment for nearly all pre-menopausal women with hormone receptor-positive breast cancer. Raloxifene is another partial agonist SERM which does not seem to promote endometrial cancer, and is used primarily for chemoprevention of breast cancer in high-risk individuals, as well as to prevent osteoporosis. Toremifene and fulvestrant are SERMs with little or no agonist activity, and are used for treatment of metastatic breast cancer. Antiandrogens are a
New Chemo Drug May Benefit Some Breast Cancer Patients [SEP] Chemotherapy // of genetic mutations in oncogenes (genes that control the growth rate of cells) and tumor suppressor genes (genes that help to prevent cancer), which gives cancer cells their malignant characteristics, such as uncontrolled growth. In the broad sense, most chemotherapeutic drugs work by impairing mitosis (cell division), effectively targeting fast-dividing cells. As these drugs cause damage to cells, they are termed "cytotoxic". They prevent mitosis by various mechanisms including damaging DNA and inhibition of the cellular machinery involved in cell division. One theory as to why these drugs kill cancer cells is that they induce a programmed form of cell
New Chemo Drug May Benefit Some Breast Cancer Patients [SEP] Antibody-drug conjugate // the cytotoxic drug is released and kills the cancer. Due to this targeting, ideally the drug has lower side effects and gives a wider therapeutic window than other chemotherapeutic agents. These advantages have led to ADC technologies being featured in many publications, notably "The New York Times", as well as numerous scientific journals. To date, only four ADCs have received market approval. However, after a request from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), Pfizer/Wyeth, the developer and marketer of the first ADC to receive marketing approval in 2001 for the treatment of patients with acute myelogenous leukemia (Gemtuzumab ozogamicin,
New Chemo Drug May Benefit Some Breast Cancer Patients [SEP] Treatment of cancer // contrast with "targeted therapy" (see below). Chemotherapy drugs interfere with cell division in various possible ways, e.g. with the duplication of DNA or the separation of newly formed chromosomes. Most forms of chemotherapy target all rapidly dividing cells and are not specific to cancer cells, although some degree of specificity may come from the inability of many cancer cells to repair DNA damage, while normal cells generally can. Hence, chemotherapy has the potential to harm healthy tissue, especially those tissues that have a high replacement rate (e.g. intestinal lining). These cells usually repair themselves after chemotherapy. Because some drugs work
New Chemo Drug May Benefit Some Breast Cancer Patients [SEP] Breast cancer chemotherapy // Breast cancer chemotherapy Breast cancer chemotherapy refers to the use of cytotoxic drugs (chemotherapy) in the treatment of breast cancer. There are three major types of chemotherapy. Multiple chemotherapeutic agents may be used in combination to treat patients with breast cancer. Determining the appropriate regimen to use depends on many factors; such as, the character of the tumor, lymph node status, and the age and health of the patient. The following is a list of some of the commonly used adjuvant chemotherapy for breast cancer: Since chemotherapy affects the production of white blood cells, a granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) is
Jury finding upends Bayer's Roundup defense strategy: experts. [SEP] Roundup (herbicide) // million in damages after a jury in San Francisco found that Monsanto had failed to adequately warn consumers of cancer risks posed by the herbicide, a decision the company plans on appealing. Johnson had routinely used two different glyphosate formulations in his work as a groundskeeper, RoundUp and another Monsanto product called Ranger Pro. The jury's verdict addressed the question of whether Monsanto knowingly failed to warn consumers that RoundUp could be harmful, but not whether RoundUp causes cancer. Court documents from the case show the company's efforts to influence scientific research via ghostwriting. After the IARC classified glyphosate as
Jury finding upends Bayer's Roundup defense strategy: experts. [SEP] Standard Gravure shooting // Midway through, defense testimony opened a door that would have allowed plaintiffs to make known to the jury Lilly's 1985 conviction for failing to report to the federal Food and Drug Administration adverse reactions to Oraflex, another Lilly drug. The plaintiffs and Lilly then negotiated an agreement, which they concealed from the trial judge, John W. Potter. The trial continued, and plaintiffs never introduced the precedent of Lilly's conduct with respect to Oraflex. The jury decided in Lilly's favor, and when plaintiffs failed to appeal, a suspecting Judge Potter uncovered the concealed agreement. With unanimous authorization from Kentucky's Supreme Court,
Jury finding upends Bayer's Roundup defense strategy: experts. [SEP] Scientific jury selection // identify those jurors who would most likely sway the rest of the jury's deliberations, so as to bribe and extort them into pushing for acquittal, but also train one of his henchmen to pose as the perfect "prosecutor's juror" and get placed on the jury. In season one, episode eleven, of the television series "Leverage", a pharmaceutical company is under fire for a wrongful death case involving a stimulative all-natural herbal supplement. In an attempt to prevent major losses for the pharmaceutical company in question, and to protect the investment of a soon-to-be-parent company's subsidiary, scientific jury selection is used.
Jury finding upends Bayer's Roundup defense strategy: experts. [SEP] Bayer // made to expand the production of its herbicide Liberty. Liberty is an alternative to Monsanto's product, Roundup, which are both used to kill weeds. Bayer CropScience Limited is the Indian subsidiary of Bayer AG. It is listed on the Indian stock exchanges viz. the Bombay Stock Exchange & National Stock Exchange of India and has a market capitalization of $2 billion. Bayer BioScience, headquartered in Hyderabad, India has about 400 employees, and has research, production and an extensive sales network spread across India. Before the 2016 restructuring, Bayer HealthCare comprises a further four subdivisions: Bayer Schering Pharma, Bayer Consumer Care,
Jury finding upends Bayer's Roundup defense strategy: experts. [SEP] Robert F. Kennedy Jr. // court in San Francisco, on behalf of plaintiffs seeking to recover damages for non-Hodgkins lymphoma, that, the plaintiffs allege, were a result of exposure to Monsanto's glyphosate-based herbicide, Roundup. Kennedy and his team also filed a class action lawsuit against Monsanto for failing to warn consumers about the dangers allegedly posed by exposure to Roundup. In September 2018, Kennedy and his partners filed a class-action lawsuit against Columbia Gas of Massachusetts alleging negligence following gas explosions in three towns north of Boston. Of Columbia Gas, Kennedy said “as they build new miles of pipe, the same company is ignoring its
Jury finding upends Bayer's Roundup defense strategy: experts. [SEP] Monsanto legal cases // of California filed a motion to dismiss the case. Monsanto appealed on March 22. In 2016, the Southern District of California ruled that Emanuel Giglio's cancer was not Monsanto's fault and that "FIFRA preempted Giglio's claim of a failure to warn the EPA about the dangers of glyphosate". In the "In re: RoundUp Products Liability" multidistrict litigation (MDL) a "Daubert" hearing was held in March 2018 on general causation as to non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma. This case consolidated over 300 federal lawsuits that allege Monsanto did not adequately warn consumers about the risks of using RoundUp. These lawsuits were filed after the
Jury finding upends Bayer's Roundup defense strategy: experts. [SEP] Monsanto legal cases // Superior Court, against Monsanto alleging damages related to certain forms of cancer caused by Monsanto's Roundup product. On August 10, 2018, Dewayne Johnson won the first jury case against Monsanto based on a causal link between Roundup and Johnson's non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. The jury awarded Johnson $289 million in actual and punitive damages against Monsanto, and found that Monsanto acted maliciously by failing to warn consumers of cancer risks posed by the herbicide. Monsanto plans to appeal the verdict based on its claim that the judge improperly admitted scientific evidence presented on behalf of Johnson. Arkansas and Missouri banned the sale
Jury finding upends Bayer's Roundup defense strategy: experts. [SEP] Glyphosate // In June 2018, Dewayne Johnson, a 46-year-old former California school groundskeeper who is dying of non-Hodgkin lymphoma, took Monsanto (which had been acquired by Bayer earlier that month) to trial in San Francisco County superior court, alleging that it has spent decades hiding the cancer-causing dangers of its Roundup herbicides. The judge ordered that jurors be allowed to consider both scientific evidence related to the cause of Johnson’s cancer and allegations that Monsanto suppressed evidence of the risks, with possible punitive damages. In August 2018, the jury awarded Johnson US$289 million in damages. Monsanto said they would appeal, saying they
Jury finding upends Bayer's Roundup defense strategy: experts. [SEP] Bayer // share price dropped by around 14% or $14 Billion. The company filed an appeal on 18 September 2018. It faces 8,700 similar lawsuits alleging Roundup caused cancer. The general consensus among national regulatory agencies, the World Health Organization, and the European Commission is that labeled usage of the herbicide poses no carcinogenic or genotoxic risk to humans. The following is an illustration of the company's major mergers, acquisitions and historical predecessors: In 2003, to separate operational and strategic managements, Bayer AG was reorganized into a holding company. The group's core businesses were transformed into limited companies, each controlled by Bayer
Jury finding upends Bayer's Roundup defense strategy: experts. [SEP] Bayer // genetically modified rice had contaminated the U.S. rice supply. Shortly after the public learned of the contamination, the E.U. banned imports of U.S. long-grain rice and the futures price plunged. In April 2010, a Lonoke County, Arkansas jury awarded a dozen farmers $48 million. The case is currently on appeal to the Arkansas Supreme Court. On 1 July 2011 Bayer CropScience agreed to a global settlement for up to $750 million. In September 2014, the firm announced plans to invest $1 billion in the United States between 2013 and 2016. A Bayer spokesperson said that the largest investments will be
The media covered up an incident in San Bernardino during which several Muslim men fired upon a number of Californian hikers. [SEP] 2015 San Bernardino attack // on American–Islamic Relations (CAIR) and Islamic Society of Orange County, condemned the attacks. A night vigil was held the day after the attacks at the largest mosque in the San Bernardino County, the Ahmadiyya Baitul Hameed Mosque. In the aftermath of the shooting, CAIR reported an escalation in anti-Muslim hate crimes in the U.S., including the throwing of a pig's head at a mosque in Philadelphia, the beating of a Queens shop owner, and incidents of death threats and vandalism. A number of attacks and incidents of vandalism in southern California in the weeks following the attack were investigated as
The media covered up an incident in San Bernardino during which several Muslim men fired upon a number of Californian hikers. [SEP] 2015 San Bernardino attack // "Dabiq", the online propaganda magazine of the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant, released an issue praising the shooting and the perpetrators. Governor Brown said, "Our thoughts and prayers are with the victims' families and everyone affected by the brutal attack." On September 12, 2016, Brown and California Attorney General Kamala Harris awarded eight police officers the Medal of Valor for their roles in emergency response during the attack and the subsequent shootout with the perpetrators. Pakistani Interior Minister Chaudhry Nisar Ali Khan said the Pakistani government will continue to offer "all possible legal assistance" to the U.S. in
The media covered up an incident in San Bernardino during which several Muslim men fired upon a number of Californian hikers. [SEP] 2015 San Bernardino attack // war on us, we need to declare war on them." In the "New York Review of Books", Wyatt Mason observed that a mass shooting at a Colorado Springs Planned Parenthood clinic, committed by a devout Christian a week earlier, did not lead to the kind of rhetorical outpouring produced by the San Bernardino attack, and argued that the difference in response suggested racism was at work. Some Muslim leaders objected to Obama's request that American Muslims help to "root out" extremism in their communities. Palestinian-American activist Linda Sarsour commented, "I'm tired of this idea that extremism can only mean Muslims
The media covered up an incident in San Bernardino during which several Muslim men fired upon a number of Californian hikers. [SEP] 2015 San Bernardino attack // or Islam or people who are associated with Islam [...] why is it that we're only obsessed with Islam and Muslim communities?". "We would never ask any other faith community to stand up and condemn acts of violence committed by people within their groups", she said. On June 18, 2016, President Obama issued a Weekly Address addressing the San Bernardino attack and a mass shooting that occurred at a gay nightclub six days earlier. In the speech, he addressed the topics of homegrown terrorism and gun control. Being tough on terrorism, particularly the sorts of homegrown terrorism that we've seen
The media covered up an incident in San Bernardino during which several Muslim men fired upon a number of Californian hikers. [SEP] 2015 San Bernardino attack // addition to the 22 injured, one police officer was hospitalized with a bullet wound suffered during the gunfight; another officer was injured by flying glass or shrapnel. One of the injured officers did not realize he had been hit until thirteen hours later. After the attack, police identified married couple Syed Rizwan Farook and Tashfeen Malik as the perpetrators. They used two illegally transferred .223-caliber semi-automatic rifles which had been modified to defeat California's magazine release requirements, two 9 mm caliber semi-automatic pistols, and an improvised explosive device in the attack. Neither shooter had a criminal record, and neither was
The media covered up an incident in San Bernardino during which several Muslim men fired upon a number of Californian hikers. [SEP] 2015 San Bernardino attack // the investigation, and that: [No] sane Pakistani or Muslim could even think about doing such acts, and only few people are using the name of Islam for their wrongdoings, which is defaming our religion. Such heinous acts also lead to serious difficulties for millions of Muslims who live in Western and other countries, and the extremists and nationalist elements in those societies look at Muslims with suspicions. Islamophobia is being spread around the world. What the terrorists are doing has nothing to do with Islam. In an address to the nation delivered from the Oval Office on December 6, 2015,
The media covered up an incident in San Bernardino during which several Muslim men fired upon a number of Californian hikers. [SEP] 2015 San Bernardino attack // anti-Muslim hate crimes. A "Muslims United for San Bernardino" campaign to raise money to assist victims' families with funeral expenses and other needs raised more than 152,000 from more than 1,000 donors, becoming the most successful crowdfunding venture Muslim Americans have ever launched. On December 15, 2015, three senior White House officialsValerie Jarrett, Cecilia Munoz, and Ben Rhodesmet with American Muslim and Sikh leaders to discuss the increase in violent attacks upon members of the American Muslim and Sikh community following the attack (Sikhs are not Muslims but have been occasionally targeted in anti-Islamic bias-motivated crimes). On January 19, 2016,
The media covered up an incident in San Bernardino during which several Muslim men fired upon a number of Californian hikers. [SEP] 2015 San Bernardino attack // 2015 San Bernardino attack On December 2, 2015, 14 people were killed and 22 others were seriously injured in a terrorist attack consisting of a mass shooting and an attempted bombing at the Inland Regional Center in San Bernardino, California. The perpetrators, Syed Rizwan Farook and Tashfeen Malik, a married couple living in the city of Redlands, targeted a San Bernardino County Department of Public Health training event and Christmas party of about 80 employees in a rented banquet room. Farook was a U.S.-born citizen of Pakistani descent, who worked as a health department employee. Malik was a Pakistani-born lawful
The media covered up an incident in San Bernardino during which several Muslim men fired upon a number of Californian hikers. [SEP] History of the United States (2008–present) // taken into custody in nearby Watertown the following day. On December 2, 2015, in the 2015 San Bernardino attack, 14 people were killed and 22 were injured in a mass shooting at a workplace Christmas party at the Inland Regional Center in San Bernardino, California. Both a workplace shooting and a terrorist attack, the incident was perpetrated by Rizwan Farook, a healthcare worker who was employed at the facility, and his wife Tashfeen Malik. The pair were U.S. citizens of Pakistani descent who had become radicalized and had expressed a commitment to jihadism prior to the attack. The attack also
The media covered up an incident in San Bernardino during which several Muslim men fired upon a number of Californian hikers. [SEP] 2015 San Bernardino attack // what way remains a challenge in these investigations, and our work is ongoing there." In one Arabic-language online radio broadcast, ISIL described the perpetrators as "supporters" following the attack. During the police investigation into the attack, "The New York Times" reported that this language indicated "a less direct connection" between the shooters and the terrorist group. In a December 5, 2015, English-language broadcast on its Bayan radio station, ISIL referred to the couple as "soldiers of the caliphate," which is a phrase ISIL uses to denote members of the terrorist organization. "The New York Times" reported that it was unclear
The mayonnaise oozing from a chicken sandwich turned out to be pus from a tumor in the chicken. [SEP] Nestlé Purina PetCare // of one bag that was found to contain salmonella. In 2012 a consumer sued Nestlé Purina Petcare when his pet died after eating Waggin' Train treats. The Food and Drug Administration received more than 900 reports from grieving pet owners that alleged the treat was causing illness or death in their pets due to chicken products from China. The FDA had issued warnings regarding these ingredients, but lab tests repeatedly confirmed there were no contaminants. Later that year, another consumer started a petition on Change.org asking retailers to voluntarily stop carrying the product. The petition attracted 60,000 signatures. The following
The mayonnaise oozing from a chicken sandwich turned out to be pus from a tumor in the chicken. [SEP] Loch Maree Hotel botulism poisoning // tongue. Other sandwiches were also made from ingredients including beef, ham, jam and eggs. Investigators obtained the little that remained of the left-over food from the hospital rubbish. Botulinum toxin was found in the remains of a wild duck paste and samples sent to the distinguished microbiologist Bruce White. The most significant sample was from one of the ill gillie's leftover potted duck sandwich, which was buried in a garden by a colleague to avoid the hens eating it. Wrapped in paper, it was recovered during the night of the 17 August, fully intact. The origins of the potted meat
The mayonnaise oozing from a chicken sandwich turned out to be pus from a tumor in the chicken. [SEP] Mayonnaise // ill and nine died in a New York City hospital due to hospital-prepared mayonnaise. In all salmonellosis cases, the major reason was improper acidification of the mayonnaise, with a pH higher than the recommended upper limit of 4.1, with acetic acid as the main acidifying agent. Mayonnaise Mayonnaise (, , also ), informally mayo (), is a thick cold sauce or dressing usually used in sandwiches and composed salads. It is a stable emulsion of oil, egg yolk, and acid, either vinegar or lemon juice. There are many variants using additional flavorings. The proteins and lecithin in the egg yolk
The mayonnaise oozing from a chicken sandwich turned out to be pus from a tumor in the chicken. [SEP] Marlboro Psychiatric Hospital // the food poisoning incident, the Senior food service worker had complained to state officials about the "unsanitary kitchen conditions". The conditions included rodent droppings, dirty equipment and mold. Patients became ill and had severe diarrhea after eating tainted chicken. The doctor on duty waited six hours after reports to him about patients becoming sick and misdiagnosed the first few patients he saw until the condition had become very serious for the patients Two months after the poisoning incident, state health department officials examining the kitchens found food service conditions continue to provide "ample opportunity for an outbreak to recur in
The mayonnaise oozing from a chicken sandwich turned out to be pus from a tumor in the chicken. [SEP] Chicken sandwich // fast food, fast casual and casual dining chains feature some sort of chicken sandwich, even at restaurants where chicken is not a specialty. Chicken salad served between slices of bread is a chicken sandwich variation seen both in North America and elsewhere. In Ireland, the popular "chicken fillet roll" is a baguette filled with a spicy or plain breaded chicken fillet and a mayonnaise or butter spread. The hot chicken sandwich or simply "hot chicken" (Quebec French: "sandwich hot chicken") is a type of chicken sandwich consisting of chicken, sliced bread, and gravy. The sandwich is usually served with green
The mayonnaise oozing from a chicken sandwich turned out to be pus from a tumor in the chicken. [SEP] Suan cai // oesophageal carcinogens in several animal models. Roussin red methyl ester, a non-alkylating nitroso compound with tumour-promoting effect in vitro, was identified in pickles from Linxian in much higher concentrations than in samples from low-incidence areas. Fumonisin mycotoxins have been shown to cause liver and kidney tumours in rodents. A 2017 study in "Chinese Journal of Cancer" has linked salted vegetables (common among Chinese cuisine) to a 4-fold increase in nasopharynx cancer, where fermentation was a critical step in creating nitrosamines, which some are confirmed carcinogens, as well as activation of Epstein–Barr virus by fermentation products. Suan cai Suan cai (also
The mayonnaise oozing from a chicken sandwich turned out to be pus from a tumor in the chicken. [SEP] Mayonnaise // of 0.925, restricts the growth of yeasts, a few bacteria and molds. Yeasts of the genus Saccharomyces, "Lactobacillus fructivorans," and "Zygosaccharomyces bailii" are the species responsible for the spoilage of mayonnaise. The characteristics of spoilage caused by "Z. bailli" are product separation and a "yeasty" odor. A study suggests that adding encapsulated cells of "Bifidobacterium bifidum" and "B. infantis" prolongs the life of mayonnaise up to 12 weeks without microorganism spoilage. Mayonnaise, both commercially processed and home-made, has been associated with illnesses from "Salmonella" globally. The source of the "Salmonella" has been confirmed to be raw eggs. Several outbreaks with
The mayonnaise oozing from a chicken sandwich turned out to be pus from a tumor in the chicken. [SEP] Mayonnaise // Mayonnaise Mayonnaise (, , also ), informally mayo (), is a thick cold sauce or dressing usually used in sandwiches and composed salads. It is a stable emulsion of oil, egg yolk, and acid, either vinegar or lemon juice. There are many variants using additional flavorings. The proteins and lecithin in the egg yolk serve as emulsifiers in mayonnaise (and hollandaise sauce). The color of mayonnaise varies from near-white to pale yellow, and its texture from a light cream to a thick gel. Commercial egg-free varieties are made for vegans and others who avoid chicken eggs or dietary cholesterol. A
The mayonnaise oozing from a chicken sandwich turned out to be pus from a tumor in the chicken. [SEP] Burger King grilled chicken sandwiches // chicken sandwich, the BK Broiler, was introduced in 1990. It was made with lettuce, tomato and a dill ranch sauce served on an oat dusted roll. At that time, more than 90% of chicken products sold by the major chains were fried. By a month after its introduction, it was selling more than a million units per day, and poaching sales from fried chicken chains such as Kentucky Fried Chicken. The sandwiches were part of an industry trend towards the diversification of menus with healthier products such as reformulated cooking methods and salads. At the time, the sandwich had 379
The mayonnaise oozing from a chicken sandwich turned out to be pus from a tumor in the chicken. [SEP] Unilever // claiming that Hampton Creek's Just Mayo products are falsely advertised because they don't contain eggs. "The Washington Post" headline on the suit read "Big Food's Weird War Over The Meaning of Mayonnaise." "The Los Angeles Times" began its story with "Big Tobacco, Big Oil, now Big Mayo?" A Wall Street Journal writer described that with "Giant corporation generates huge quantities of free advertising and brand equity for tiny rival by suing it." In December 2014, Unilever dropped the claim. In March 2015, Unilever confirmed it had reached an agreement to acquire REN Skincare, a British niche skincare brand. This was
Lawmakers consider spending, saving $128.5 million surplus. [SEP] Mitch Daniels // for a savings of $190 million, resulting in a budget of $23 billion. Annual spending growth for future budgets was cut to 2.8% from the 5.9% that had been standard for many years. Increase in revenues, coupled with the spending reductions, led to a $300 million budget surplus. Indiana is not permitted to take loans, as borrowing was prohibited in its constitution following the 1837 state bankruptcy. The state, therefore, had financed its deficit spending by reallocating $760 million in revenue that belonged to local government and school districts over the course of many years. The funds were gradually and
Lawmakers consider spending, saving $128.5 million surplus. [SEP] Steve Beshear // the state budget. Republican Senate President David Williams questioned the legality of the cuts, claiming that the shortfall was only $117.5 million and that $145 million in surplus funds from the previous fiscal year would cover the difference. Beshear countered that the legislature had already authorized $138 million in expenditures from the surplus fund and that his reckoning of the deficit also included $300 million in "additional spending needs". Williams stopped short of filing a legal challenge to the cuts, but warned Beshear that the General Assembly would closely monitor the cuts and override any they disagreed with by passing
Lawmakers consider spending, saving $128.5 million surplus. [SEP] Paul E. Patton // the first term slowed in 2001, and by 2002 the state was $800 million short of meeting its budget. In 2002, Republicans in the General Assembly called for an end to public campaign finance, as an economy measure. Calling it "welfare for politicians", Republicans estimated that abolishing public campaign finance could save the state $30 million. Ultimately, the issue derailed the biennial budget during the regular legislative session. In April 2002, Patton called a special legislative session to approve the budget, but legislators were still unable to agree. For the first time in the state's history, the fiscal year began
Lawmakers consider spending, saving $128.5 million surplus. [SEP] Kerry Healey // to state aid by about $75 million. The administration closed the budget gap, and ended fiscal year 2004 with a budget surplus of $700 million. Official state figures showed that Massachusetts ended fiscal year 2005 with a $594.4 million surplus. In 2006, the surplus was officially $720.9 million according to state statistics. Additionally, the administration left the state with a "rainy day" stabilization fund with a balance of $2.1 billion. These surpluses were attained without breaking the Romney-Healey campaign promise that they would not raise taxes. On the heels of the Municipal Relief Act, Healey headed a bipartisan commission that
Lawmakers consider spending, saving $128.5 million surplus. [SEP] 2011 Oklahoma state budget // 17% in FY2010, down approximately $945 million from FY2009. As a result, lawmakers cut state agency budgets 7.5% midway through FY2010. Then lawmakers relied on a combination of fee hikes, deferred tax credits and further cuts to state agencies (3% cut in general) to help balance the FY2011 budget. That was not, however, enough and lawmakers additionally relied on $500 million in federal stimulus money and $277 million in funds from the Constitutional Reserve Fund to balance the FY2011 state budget. Oklahoma has nearly $600 million remaining in its Constitutional Reserve Fund, but has limitations in using it to fill
Lawmakers consider spending, saving $128.5 million surplus. [SEP] Kansas state budget (2008–09) // less aggressive than Emler's proposal. The Senate's Republican leaders fashioned a proposal to make $266 million worth of cuts, with a total of $302 million in adjustments to the current budget. The reductions included a $99 million cut in aid to public schools - compared with $7 million in the bipartisan Senate bill. Rep. Lee Tafanelli said, ""All we're doing is basically kicking the can down the road just a little bit farther."<BR>In February the Governor recommended moving $225 million into the state's main budget account from other individual state accounts, Republicans in the House and the Senate prevented the
Lawmakers consider spending, saving $128.5 million surplus. [SEP] Rodney Tom // pension programs that will save the state $133 million in the short term and $2.3 billion over the long haul. Most education spending was spared. He justified his actions by saying, "Since before this legislative session began, the message from my constituents has been loud and clear. Another budget that is unsustainable, relies upon accounting gimmicks and sets our state up for a perennial deficit is simply unacceptable. If we ever want to get ahead of our budget crises, our state needs wholesale government reform and a budget that reflects our commitment to sustainable governing." On December 10, 2012, Tom
Lawmakers consider spending, saving $128.5 million surplus. [SEP] Jase Bolger // year as Speaker, Bolger, Senate Majority Leader Randy Richardville and Governor Rick Snyder worked to pass a budget which resulted in Michigan seeing a more than $450 million surplus. In each subsequent year the Michigan legislature has passed, and the governor has signed a balanced budget. In each of the past three years, Michigan has seen a surplus that has also helped replenish the state's Rainy Day Fund, which in 2011 had $2.2 million in reserves and now is projected to surpass $700 million in reserves for the 2014-15 fiscal year budget. Speaker Bolger has stated that he plans to
Lawmakers consider spending, saving $128.5 million surplus. [SEP] Jodi Rell // the state's constitutional spending cap resisting pressure from groups favoring expanded state government spending which would bypass the cap. As a result, in late June 2006 the state reported a $910 million surplus for the prior year and the state's Rainy Day Fund exceeded $1 billion in deposits for the first time. In 2007 she shocked many of her supporters by proposing additional spending for education that would cause the state budget to significantly exceed the spending cap. Paying for the increased spending would require raising the state income tax. Republican legislators and a few Democrats, including (at least initially)
Lawmakers consider spending, saving $128.5 million surplus. [SEP] Scott Walker (politician) // were cut by $2 billion. More than 100,000 jobs were created in the state of Wisconsin. Overall, Wisconsin performed above the national average. However it has yet to regain all the jobs lost during and after the Great Recession of 2007–2009. Walker proposed the Wisconsin Budget Repair Bill on February 11, 2011, estimated to save Wisconsin $30 million in the current fiscal year and $300 million over the next two years. The bill requires additional contributions by state and local government workers to their health care plans and pensions, amounting to roughly an 8% decrease in the average government worker's
A film producer claimed actor Kevin Spacey had "drugged and raped" Justin Bieber. [SEP] Kevin Spacey // Staci Wolfe and talent agency Creative Artists Agency were ending their relationships with him. In July 2018, three more allegations of sexual assault against Spacey were revealed by Scotland Yard, bringing the total number of open investigations in the UK to six. The Los Angeles District Attorney's office said that it would also investigate Spacey's case. In September 2018, a lawsuit filed at Los Angeles Superior Court claimed that Spacey sexually assaulted an unnamed masseur at a house in Malibu, California, in October 2016. An article in "The Sunday Times Magazine" in 1999 stated that Spacey's "love affair with acting,
A film producer claimed actor Kevin Spacey had "drugged and raped" Justin Bieber. [SEP] BuzzFeed News // won the presidential election." On October 29, 2017, BuzzFeed published the original story in which actor Anthony Rapp accused actor Kevin Spacey of making sexual advances toward him at a party in 1986 when Rapp was 14 at the time and Spacey was 26. Subsequently, numerous other men alleged that Spacey had sexually harassed or assaulted them, As a result, Netflix indefinitely suspended production of Spacey's TV series "House of Cards", and opted to not release his film "Gore" on their service, which was in post-production at the time, and Spacey was replaced by Christopher Plummer in Ridley Scott's film
A film producer claimed actor Kevin Spacey had "drugged and raped" Justin Bieber. [SEP] Sexual abuse in Hollywood // a result, The Weinstein Company and the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences decided to expel Weinstein. The accusations against Weinstein led to the disclosure of a considered number of victims of other sexual assaults by people in the film industry. On October 30, 2017, actor Anthony Rapp stated that in 1986, while still a minor, he had been sexually harassed by actor Kevin Spacey during a party held at Spacey's home. According to the statement, Rapp was in Spacey's bedroom watching TV, when Spacey walked in drunk and laid on top of Rapp. In response to these allegations,
A film producer claimed actor Kevin Spacey had "drugged and raped" Justin Bieber. [SEP] Sexual abuse in Hollywood // Spacey alleged that he did not remember behaving inappropriately, and asked for forgiveness if it was so. In the same statement, Spacey publicly declared that he was gay. The accusations against Spacey were aggravated when technical staff from the television series "House of Cards" (which Spacey starred) declared that the actor frequently harassed men during filming. Mexican actor Roberto Cavazos also accused Spacey of harassing him. In his story he said, "It seems that it only took being a male under 30 to make Mr. Spacey feel free to touch us." After the accusations, Spacey announced his admission to the
A film producer claimed actor Kevin Spacey had "drugged and raped" Justin Bieber. [SEP] Kevin Spacey // alleging similar abuse, including journalist Heather Unruh (who alleged that Spacey sexually assaulted her son); Norwegian author and former royal family member Ari Behn; filmmaker Tony Montana; actor Roberto Cavazos; Richard Dreyfuss' son Harry; and eight people who worked on "House of Cards". "The Guardian" was contacted by "a number of people" who worked at the Old Vic, where Spacey was artistic director for 11 years; they alleged that he "groped and behaved in an inappropriate way with young men at the time". On November 16, the Old Vic confirmed that it had received 20 testimonies of alleged inappropriate behavior
A film producer claimed actor Kevin Spacey had "drugged and raped" Justin Bieber. [SEP] Kevin Spacey // he has won a Golden Globe Award for Best Actor – Television Series Drama and two consecutive Screen Actors Guild Awards for Outstanding Performance by a Male Actor in a Drama Series. In October 2017, Spacey was accused by actor Anthony Rapp of making a sexual advance toward him when Rapp was 14. Shortly after, numerous other men alleged that Spacey had sexually harassed or assaulted them. As a result, Netflix cut all ties with him, shelved his film "Gore" and removed him from the cast of the last season of "House of Cards". He was to appear in Ridley
A film producer claimed actor Kevin Spacey had "drugged and raped" Justin Bieber. [SEP] Anthony Rapp // drunk Spacey physically carried Rapp to bed and attempted to initiate sex. Rapp added that he had once met with a lawyer to discuss possible legal action, but was told there was no case worth pursuing. He had previously discussed the assault in a 2001 interview with "The Advocate", but Spacey's name was redacted from publication to avoid legal disputes and public outing. Rapp was inspired to come forward in 2017 after the effects of the Harvey Weinstein sexual abuse allegations with the support of his family, boyfriend, representatives, and a lawyer. In response, Spacey posted on Twitter that he
A film producer claimed actor Kevin Spacey had "drugged and raped" Justin Bieber. [SEP] Kevin Spacey // a gay man." His decision to come out via his statement was criticized by prominent members of the gay community, including Billy Eichner, George Takei, and Wanda Sykes, as an attempt to change the subject and shift focus from Rapp's accusation, for using his own drunkenness as an excuse for making sexual advances to a minor, and for implying a connection between being gay and sexually assaulting a minor. Kevin Spacey Kevin Spacey Fowler (born July 26, 1959) is an American actor, producer and singer. He began his career as a stage actor during the 1980s before obtaining supporting roles
A film producer claimed actor Kevin Spacey had "drugged and raped" Justin Bieber. [SEP] Eric Tsang // Grace Han, a talent agent who formerly headed the Ford Models agency in Asia. Han further alleged that Eric Tsang had sexually assaulted more than one woman, and claims to know of a specific incident in which a group of male Hong Kong celebrities, led by Tsang, allegedly drugged seven female models in a Hong Kong karaoke bar and raped six of them, while one girl escaped after she noticed the drugging. Tsang rejected the authenticity of the uploaded video and did not address Grace Han's allegation. A week after the allegations surfaced, Tsang filed a defamation lawsuit against Grace
A film producer claimed actor Kevin Spacey had "drugged and raped" Justin Bieber. [SEP] Kevin Spacey // 2012 and getting him fired. On October 29, 2017, actor Anthony Rapp alleged that Spacey, while appearing intoxicated, made a sexual advance toward him in 1986, when Rapp was 14 and Spacey was 26. Rapp had also shared this story in a 2001 interview with "The Advocate", but Spacey's name was redacted from publication to avoid legal disputes and public outing. Spacey stated through Twitter that he did not remember the encounter, but that he owed Rapp "the sincerest apology for what would have been deeply inappropriate drunken behavior" if he had behaved as asserted. Fifteen others then came forward
Public warned of possible measles exposure in Pennsylvania. [SEP] Measles // initiated in Ohio when two unvaccinated Amish men returned to the United States from missionary work in the Philippines, harboring asymptomatic measles. Their return to a community with low vaccination rates led to an outbreak that rose to include a total of 383 outbreak-related cases across nine counties. Of the 383 cases, 340 (89%) occurred in unvaccinated individuals. From January 4 to April 2, 2015, there were 159 cases of measles reported to the CDC. Of those 159 cases, 111 (70%) were determined to have come from an earlier exposure in late December 2014. This outbreak was believed to have
Public warned of possible measles exposure in Pennsylvania. [SEP] Epidemiology of measles // regions. In June 2006, an outbreak in Boston resulted after a resident became infected in India, and in October 2007, a Michigan girl who had been vaccinated contracted the disease overseas. In 1991 in the Philadelphia region, thousands of children were sick with measles. The epicenter of this outbreak was traced to the Faith Tabernacle Congregation, a Faith Healing church that actively discouraged parishioners from vaccinating their children. A Court Order was obtained to forcibly treat and vaccinate children whose parents would not agree to seeking medical care. Nine children eventually died as a result of this outbreak. Between January
Public warned of possible measles exposure in Pennsylvania. [SEP] Epidemiology of measles // particularly for young children with a family history of autism, and where several immunizations are given at the same time. William Schaffner, professor at the Vanderbilt University School of Medicine, described the pastor as "misinformed" and said that young children are among the most vulnerable to measles. In February and March 2014, 20 confirmed cases appeared in New York City. In December 2014, a measles outbreak began at Disneyland in Southern California. At least 173 people have become infected with measles in 21 states, as of May 2015. Health officials say 39 cases have been traced to direct exposure at
Public warned of possible measles exposure in Pennsylvania. [SEP] Measles // and was taking immunosuppressive drug for another condition. The drugs suppressed the woman's immunity to measles, and the woman became infected with measles; she did not develop a rash, but contracted pneumonia, which caused her death. In June 2017, the Maine Health and Environmental Testing Laboratory confirmed a case of measles in Franklin County. This instance marks the first case of measles in 20 years for the state of Maine. In 2018 one case occurred in Portland, Oregon, with 500 people exposed; 40 of them lacked immunity to the virus and were being monitored by county health officials as of
Public warned of possible measles exposure in Pennsylvania. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic in the United States by state // another two in Marion County (June 15, 2009 and July 24, 2009) and three in Multnomah County (June 26, 2009, July 3, 2009, and July 17, 2009). On May 3, The Pennsylvania Department of Health said that a 31-year-old male in Montgomery County had the H1N1 flu. By May 5 probable cases were under investigation in Philadelphia (10), Bucks (2), Chester (2), Allegheny (1), Cambria (1), Franklin (1), Lehigh (1), Luzerne (1), Lycoming (1), Montgomery (1), and York (1) counties. On June 4, a 55-year-old woman in Berks County was confirmed as the first death in Pennsylvania due to swine
Public warned of possible measles exposure in Pennsylvania. [SEP] 2013 Swansea measles epidemic // to contain the outbreak. Vaccinations were held in all comprehensive schools in Powys. There were concerns that the epidemic could spread to London and infect many more people, prompting the Department of Health to set up a mass vaccination campaign targeted at one million school children throughout England. The following table shows measles notifications by the NHS Health Board. Reported notifications tend to exceed confirmed cases. Public Health Wales issued a statement saying, "Measles is one of a number of notifiable diseases. Doctors in Wales have a statutory duty to notify a 'Proper Officer' of the Local Authority of suspected
Public warned of possible measles exposure in Pennsylvania. [SEP] Vaccine controversies // of these cases (117 cases [66%]) were part of a large multi-state outbreak linked to Disneyland in California, continued from 2014. Analysis by the CDC scientists showed that the measles virus type in this outbreak (B3) was identical to the virus type that caused the large measles outbreak in the Philippines in 2014. On July 2, 2015, the first confirmed death from measles in 12 years was recorded. An immunocompromised woman in Washington State was infected and later died of pneumonia due to measles. In spring 2017, a measles outbreak occurred in Minnesota. As of June 16, 78 cases of
Public warned of possible measles exposure in Pennsylvania. [SEP] Epidemiology of measles // deaths were reported. A measles outbreak was declared on 8 March 2014 in regions east of Vancouver in the Fraser Valley area where vaccination rates were known to be low in school and religious groups. A total of 228 cases were confirmed. On March 24, Fraser Health Authority said the outbreak have been contained and confined to the original community. Indigenous measles were declared to have been eliminated in North, Central, and South America; the last endemic case in the region was reported on November 12, 2002. Outbreaks are still occurring, however, following importations of measles viruses from other world
Public warned of possible measles exposure in Pennsylvania. [SEP] Epidemiology of measles // six were French, and 7,288 hospitalizations. In February 2014, 26 cases in Barcelona, Spain. Ukraine has had a multiple large outbreaks of measles. In 2001-2002, there were around 25,000 cases and 14 deaths reported. In 2006 with 44,534 reported cases with at least 2 deaths. 13,517 cases were reported in 2012. Germany has faced repeated outbreaks in the 21st century. 6,037 cases were reported in 2001 with at least two deaths. More than 1,500 cases were reported in 2006. 1,600 cases were reported in an outbreak in 2013. An outbreak in 2015 had more than 1,700 cases had been reported
Public warned of possible measles exposure in Pennsylvania. [SEP] Epidemiology of measles // schedule or discourage vaccination, among them Bob Sears and Jay Gordon for reducing vaccination rates and thus weakening herd immunity, and creating a situation in which an outbreak was more likely. California passed a mandatory vaccination law in June 2015. In Spring 2015, a death of an immune-suppressed woman in Washington State caused by measles was diagnosed after autopsy. This was the first U.S. measles death since 2003. In spring 2017, a measles outbreak occurred in Minnesota. As of June 16, 78 cases of measles had been confirmed in the state, 71 were unvaccinated and 65 were Somali-Americans. The outbreak
“While California is dying … Gavin (Newsom) is vacationing in Stevensville, MT!” [SEP] Gavin Newsom // out of San Francisco and bought a house in Kentfield, California, in Marin County. Gavin Newsom Gavin Christopher Newsom (born October 10, 1967) is an American politician and businessman who is the Governor-elect of California. A member of the Democratic Party, he has been the 49th Lieutenant Governor of California since 2011, and previously served as the 42nd Mayor of San Francisco from 2004 to 2011. He will be sworn in as the 40th Governor of California on January 7, 2019. He is a national progressive figure who was a prominent early advocate for same-sex marriage, immigrant rights, universal health
“While California is dying … Gavin (Newsom) is vacationing in Stevensville, MT!” [SEP] Gavin Newsom // Gavin Newsom Gavin Christopher Newsom (born October 10, 1967) is an American politician and businessman who is the Governor-elect of California. A member of the Democratic Party, he has been the 49th Lieutenant Governor of California since 2011, and previously served as the 42nd Mayor of San Francisco from 2004 to 2011. He will be sworn in as the 40th Governor of California on January 7, 2019. He is a national progressive figure who was a prominent early advocate for same-sex marriage, immigrant rights, universal health care, gun control, and the legalization of cannabis. Newsom attended Redwood High School, and
“While California is dying … Gavin (Newsom) is vacationing in Stevensville, MT!” [SEP] The Gavin Newsom Show // to his spokesman "The Gavin Newsom Show was a great opportunity for which he is grateful," spokesman Peter Ragone said in a prepared statement. "The lieutenant governor's's original agreement with Current is set to expire this month and he had already decided on moving in a new direction." According to his spokesman the departure was unrelated to Current's acquisition by Al Jazeera Media Network which happened around the same time. The Gavin Newsom Show The Gavin Newsom Show was a weekly one-hour talk show hosted by the Lieutenant Governor of California, Gavin Newsom, and airing on San Francisco-based Current TV.
“While California is dying … Gavin (Newsom) is vacationing in Stevensville, MT!” [SEP] William Newsom // in the bathtub. Newsom was married to Tessa in 1966 and their son Gavin was born the next year; a daughter followed in 1968. Newsom was divorced shortly afterwards and Tessa died in 2002. In 2004 he administered the oath of office to Gavin upon his appointment as mayor of San Francisco. Newsom died on December 12, 2018, at his home, in San Francisco, California. He was 84 years old. William Newsom William Alfred Newsom III (February 15, 1934 – December 12, 2018) was an American state appeals court judge, administrator of the Getty family trust, and the father of
“While California is dying … Gavin (Newsom) is vacationing in Stevensville, MT!” [SEP] The Gavin Newsom Show // The Gavin Newsom Show The Gavin Newsom Show was a weekly one-hour talk show hosted by the Lieutenant Governor of California, Gavin Newsom, and airing on San Francisco-based Current TV. The show featured one-on-one interviews with notable residents of California, past guests including Marissa Mayer and Sergey Brin. Mia Haugen, a former executive at The Street, Forbes and CNN, was the executive producer. It was According to Newsom, "a political show without politicians. Meaning, I'm in politics, I'm on a network that's dominantly political, and I happen to believe, firmly, that for politics to change, public policy needs to change,
“While California is dying … Gavin (Newsom) is vacationing in Stevensville, MT!” [SEP] William Newsom // the ransom money for the release of John Paul Getty III. In 1967, he married Tessa Menzies, and had two children (including Gavin) before divorcing after five years. In 1968, he ran unsuccessfully against State Senator Milton Marks, a popular Republican. In 1975, Jerry Brown appointed Newsom to the Superior Court bench in Auburn (Placer County) and later to the state Court of Appeal in San Francisco, where he served until his retirement in 1995. In this role he ruled on several prominent cases including the right of privacy for sufferers of HIV, the liability of the San Francisco 49ers
“While California is dying … Gavin (Newsom) is vacationing in Stevensville, MT!” [SEP] Gavin Newsom // Show" on Current TV, and wrote the 2013 book "Citizenville". Gavin Christopher Newsom was born in San Francisco, California, to Tessa Thomas (née Menzies) and William Alfred Newsom III, a state appeals court justice and attorney for Getty Oil. He is a fourth-generation San Franciscan. His father is of mostly Irish descent; one of Newsom's maternal great-grandfathers, Scotsman Thomas Addis, was a pioneer scientist in the field of nephrology and a professor of medicine at Stanford University. Newsom is the second cousin, twice removed, of musician Joanna Newsom. Newsom's parents separated when he was two, and divorced in 1972. At
“While California is dying … Gavin (Newsom) is vacationing in Stevensville, MT!” [SEP] Gavin Newsom // union members on a picket line in front of the Westin St. Francis Hotel. He vowed that the city would boycott the hotels by not sponsoring city events in any until the hotels agreed to a contract with workers. The contract dispute was settled in September 2006. In 2005, Newsom pushed for a state law to allow communities in California to create policy restricting certain breeds of dogs. He requested that then state senator Jackie Speier introduce a change to then-existing California law, which stated that counties could not target specific breeds of dog. The animal control agency under his
“While California is dying … Gavin (Newsom) is vacationing in Stevensville, MT!” [SEP] Mayoralty of Gavin Newsom // are terminally ill; after an investigation by the San Francisco City attorney; however, Newsom and all those involved were later cleared of legal wrongdoing. Newsom apologized for the affair at a news conference on February 1, 2007, saying, "I hurt someone I care deeply about, Alex Tourk, his friends and family, and that is something that I have to live with and something that I am deeply sorry for." After being approached by concerned colleagues, he announced that he would seek treatment for alcohol abuse. Newsom later said that the difficult times during the exposing of the affair refocused him
“While California is dying … Gavin (Newsom) is vacationing in Stevensville, MT!” [SEP] William Newsom // William Newsom William Alfred Newsom III (February 15, 1934 – December 12, 2018) was an American state appeals court judge, administrator of the Getty family trust, and the father of former San Francisco Mayor, current Lieutenant Governor of California, and Governor-elect of California Gavin Newsom. Newsom was born in San Francisco, California, the son of Christine Anne (née Brennan) and William A. Newsom II. He was known as Bill to all friends and family. A lifelong San Franciscan, Newsom had longstanding political and financial ties. His father ran the Pat Brown campaign for San Francisco district attorney, who then later
Britain backs GSK's gene therapy for 'bubble boy' syndrome. [SEP] Jeans for Genes // Programme for care services for children and information and support for families. Funding from the appeal was key in the development of gene therapy at the UCL Institute of Child Health at Great Ormond Street Hospital in London, which has since cured ten children of the life-threatening condition X-linked severe combined immune deficiency X-SCID or 'baby in the bubble' syndrome. The charity also aims to raise awareness and understanding of genetics and what it means to live with a genetic disorder. It provides educational materials for schools through a dedicated website called Genes Are Us Jeans for Genes Jeans for
Britain backs GSK's gene therapy for 'bubble boy' syndrome. [SEP] Gene therapy // treating children with SCID (severe combined immune deficiency or "bubble boy" disease) from 2000 and 2002, was questioned when two of the ten children treated at the trial's Paris center developed a leukemia-like condition. Clinical trials were halted temporarily in 2002, but resumed after regulatory review of the protocol in the US, the United Kingdom, France, Italy, and Germany. In 1993 Andrew Gobea was born with SCID following prenatal genetic screening. Blood was removed from his mother's placenta and umbilical cord immediately after birth, to acquire stem cells. The allele that codes for adenosine deaminase (ADA) was obtained and inserted
Britain backs GSK's gene therapy for 'bubble boy' syndrome. [SEP] Duke University School of Medicine // children born with severe combined immunodeficiency, also known as bubble boy disease. 1984 Bart Haynes contributes to the identification of HTLV-III, now known as HIV. 1990 Joanne Kurtzberg establishes the Duke Pediatric Blood and Marrow Transplant Program. 1994 Dr. Louise Markert demonstrates that babies born with no immune system, a fatal condition known as complete DiGeorge syndrome, can be cured with thymus transplantation. 1995 Duke scientists link the BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes to breast and ovarian cancers. 2001 Miguel Nicolelis develops a system that allows monkeys to control robot arms via brain signals, an important step to enable paralyzed people
Britain backs GSK's gene therapy for 'bubble boy' syndrome. [SEP] Gene therapy // infection, autoimmune diseases, and cancer. Follow up trials with gene therapy on another six children with Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome were also reported as promising. In October researchers reported that two children born with adenosine deaminase severe combined immunodeficiency disease (ADA-SCID) had been treated with genetically engineered stem cells 18 months previously and that their immune systems were showing signs of full recovery. Another three children were making progress. In 2014 a further 18 children with ADA-SCID were cured by gene therapy. ADA-SCID children have no functioning immune system and are sometimes known as "bubble children." Also in October researchers reported that
Britain backs GSK's gene therapy for 'bubble boy' syndrome. [SEP] William French Anderson // William French Anderson William French Anderson (born December 31, 1936) is an American physician, geneticist and molecular biologist. He is considered a pioneer of gene therapy. He graduated from Harvard College in 1958 and from Harvard Medical School in 1963. In 1990, he claimed to be the first person ever to succeed in gene therapy of a 4-year-old girl suffering from severe combined immunodeficiency (a disorder called "bubble boy disease"). In 2006, he was convicted of sexual abuse of a minor and in 2007 was sentenced to 14 years in prison. Anderson was born in Tulsa, Oklahoma. His father was
Britain backs GSK's gene therapy for 'bubble boy' syndrome. [SEP] Gene therapy // Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use of the European Medicines Agency endorsed a gene therapy treatment called Strimvelis and the European Commission approved it in June. This treats children born with adenosine deaminase deficiency and who have no functioning immune system. This was the second gene therapy treatment to be approved in Europe. In October, Chinese scientists reported they had started a trial to genetically modify T-cells from 10 adult patients with lung cancer and reinject the modified T-cells back into their bodies to attack the cancer cells. The T-cells had the PD-1 protein (which stops or slows the
Britain backs GSK's gene therapy for 'bubble boy' syndrome. [SEP] Severe combined immunodeficiency // most severe form of primary immunodeficiencies, and there are now at least nine different known genes in which mutations lead to a form of SCID. It is also known as the bubble boy disease and bubble baby disease because its victims are extremely vulnerable to infectious diseases and some of them, such as David Vetter, have become famous for living in a sterile environment. SCID is the result of an immune system so highly compromised that it is considered almost absent. SCID patients are usually affected by severe bacterial, viral, or fungal infections early in life and often present with
Britain backs GSK's gene therapy for 'bubble boy' syndrome. [SEP] William French Anderson // the 1980s. Prosecutors dropped those charges, citing insufficient evidence under Maryland law and credibility of the witness. Anderson was released from prison on May 18, 2018. William French Anderson William French Anderson (born December 31, 1936) is an American physician, geneticist and molecular biologist. He is considered a pioneer of gene therapy. He graduated from Harvard College in 1958 and from Harvard Medical School in 1963. In 1990, he claimed to be the first person ever to succeed in gene therapy of a 4-year-old girl suffering from severe combined immunodeficiency (a disorder called "bubble boy disease"). In 2006, he was
Britain backs GSK's gene therapy for 'bubble boy' syndrome. [SEP] Gene therapy // levels of SERCA2, a protein in heart muscles, improving muscle function. The FDA granted this a Breakthrough Therapy Designation to accelerate the trial and approval process. In 2016 it was reported that no improvement was found from the CUPID 2 trial. In July researchers reported promising results for six children with two severe hereditary diseases had been treated with a partially deactivated lentivirus to replace a faulty gene and after 7–32 months. Three of the children had metachromatic leukodystrophy, which causes children to lose cognitive and motor skills. The other children had Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome, which leaves them to open to
Britain backs GSK's gene therapy for 'bubble boy' syndrome. [SEP] Designer baby // Gene therapy was first conceptualized in 1972, with the authors urging caution before commencing gene therapy studies in humans. The first FDA-approved gene therapy experiment in the United States occurred in 1990, on a four-year-old girl named, Ashanti DeSilva, she was treated for ADA-SCID. This is a disease that had left her defenseless against infections spreading throughout her body. Dr. W French Anderson was a major lead on this clinical trial, he worked for the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute Since then, over 1,700 clinical trials have been conducted using a number of techniques for gene therapy. The techniques
Queen Elizabeth II wore a Burmese Ruby Tiara as a slight against U.S. President Donald Trump. [SEP] Elizabeth II's jewels // her collection to support her exiled family and various charities. Queen Mary had the tiara altered to accommodate 15 of the Cambridge cabochon emeralds. The original drop pearls can easily be replaced as an alternative to the emeralds. Queen Elizabeth II inherited the tiara directly from her grandmother in 1953. It is almost exclusively worn together with the Cambridge and Delhi Durbar parures, also containing large emeralds. Elizabeth wore the tiara in her official portrait as Queen of Canada as none of the Commonwealth realms besides the United Kingdom have their own crown jewels. Elizabeth ordered the Burmese Ruby Tiara
Queen Elizabeth II wore a Burmese Ruby Tiara as a slight against U.S. President Donald Trump. [SEP] Elizabeth II's jewels // in 1973, and it was made by Garrard & Co. using stones from her private collection. It is designed in the form of a wreath of roses, with silver and diamonds making the petals, and clusters of gold and rubies forming the centre of the flowers. A total of 96 rubies are mounted on the tiara; they were originally part of a necklace given to her in 1947 as a wedding present by the people of Burma (now Myanmar), who credited them with having the ability to protect their owner from sickness and evil. The diamonds were also given to
Queen Elizabeth II wore a Burmese Ruby Tiara as a slight against U.S. President Donald Trump. [SEP] Elizabeth II's jewels // Princess of Wales, as a wedding present. She wore it often, notably with her 'Elvis dress' on a visit to Hong Kong in 1989, but on her divorce from Prince Charles it was returned to the Queen. In 2015, the Duchess of Cambridge wore it to a diplomatic reception at Buckingham Palace. This tiara was a wedding present to Elizabeth from her mother-in-law, Princess Alice of Greece and Denmark. The Meander Tiara is in the classical Greek key pattern, with a large diamond in the centre enclosed by a laurel wreath of diamonds. It also incorporates a wreath of leaves
Queen Elizabeth II wore a Burmese Ruby Tiara as a slight against U.S. President Donald Trump. [SEP] Duchess Marie of Mecklenburg-Schwerin // her Palace safe and smuggled them out of Russia. After the Duchess's death, they were sold by her children to support their lives in exile. Queen Mary of the United Kingdom purchased a Bolin tiara of diamond loops with pearl drops, now worn by Queen Elizabeth II, although the original gold frame has been replaced by Garrad with one of platinum. Queen Marie of Romania purchased a sapphire kokoshnik-style tiara by Cartier, and Nancy Leeds, later Princess Anastasia of Greece, the ruby parure. Some of her emeralds were purchased by Barbara Hutton, and later by actress Elizabeth Taylor, who had
Queen Elizabeth II wore a Burmese Ruby Tiara as a slight against U.S. President Donald Trump. [SEP] Elizabeth II's jewels // The Delhi Durbar Tiara was made by Garrard & Co. for Mary of Teck, the wife of George V, to wear at the Delhi Durbar in 1911. As British law prohibited the removal of the Crown Jewels from the country, King George V wore a specially made crown (the Imperial Crown of India) to the Durbar, and Queen Mary wore the tiara. It was part of a set of jewellery made for Queen Mary to use at the event which included a necklace, stomacher, brooch and earrings. Made of gold and platinum, the tiara is 8 cm (3 in) tall
Queen Elizabeth II wore a Burmese Ruby Tiara as a slight against U.S. President Donald Trump. [SEP] Elizabeth II's jewels // the Queen Mother). When Queen Elizabeth, consort of King George VI, first wore the tiara, Sir Henry Channon called it "an ugly spiked tiara". Later, she lent the piece to her daughter, Princess Elizabeth (future Elizabeth II), as "something borrowed" for her wedding to Prince Philip in 1947. As Princess Elizabeth was getting dressed at Buckingham Palace before leaving for Westminster Abbey, the tiara snapped. Luckily, the court jeweller was standing by in case of any emergency, and was rushed to his work room by a police escort. Queen Elizabeth reassured her daughter that it would be fixed in time,
Queen Elizabeth II wore a Burmese Ruby Tiara as a slight against U.S. President Donald Trump. [SEP] Jallianwala Bagh massacre // During the visit, she wore a dress of a colour described as pink apricot or saffron, which was of religious significance to the Sikhs. She removed her shoes while visiting the monument and laid a wreath at the monument. While some Indians welcomed the expression of regret and sadness in the Queen's statement, others criticised it for being less than an apology. The then Prime Minister of India Inder Kumar Gujral defended the Queen, saying that the Queen herself had not even been born at the time of the events and should not be required to apologise. The Queen's 1997
Queen Elizabeth II wore a Burmese Ruby Tiara as a slight against U.S. President Donald Trump. [SEP] Tiara // It consists of numerous interlocking diamond circles. Pearl drops can be attached inside the circles or emeralds. Queen Mary had a tiara made for the Delhi Durbar held in 1911 in India. It is now on loan for wearing by the Duchess of Cornwall, wife of Charles, Prince of Wales. Queen Elizabeth II commissioned a ruby and diamond tiara. A gift of aquamarines she received as a present from the people of Brazil were added to diamonds to make a new tiara. Other queens, empresses, and princesses regularly wear tiaras at formal evening occasions. The Swedish Royal Family have a
Queen Elizabeth II wore a Burmese Ruby Tiara as a slight against U.S. President Donald Trump. [SEP] Elizabeth II's jewels // a 25th wedding anniversary gift in 1888 by Lady Salisbury on behalf of 365 peeresses of the United Kingdom. She had always wanted a tiara in the style of a kokoshnik (Russian for "cock's comb"), a traditional Russian folk headdress, and knew the design well from a tiara belonging to her sister, Marie Feodorovna, the Empress of Russia. It was made by Garrard & Co. and has vertical white gold bars pavé-set with diamonds, the longest of which is 6.5 cm (2.5 in). In a letter to her aunt, the Grand Duchess of Mecklenburg-Strelitz, Princess Mary wrote, "The presents are
Queen Elizabeth II wore a Burmese Ruby Tiara as a slight against U.S. President Donald Trump. [SEP] Elizabeth II's jewels // and scrolls on either side. The Queen has never worn this item in public, and it was given in 1972 to her daughter, Princess Anne, who has frequently worn the tiara in public, notably during her engagement to Captain Mark Phillips and for an official portrait marking her 50th birthday. Anne lent the tiara to her daughter, Zara Philips, to use at her wedding to Mike Tindall in 2011. This tiara, made by Cartier in 1936, was purchased by the Duke of York (later King George VI) for his wife (later the Queen Mother) three weeks before they became king
South Korea court strikes down abortion law in landmark ruling. [SEP] Abortion in South Korea // law should be modified. In September 2017, campaigners filed a petition on the website of Moon Jae-in, the President of South Korea, calling on the government to amend the law by permitting the sale of the abortion pill mifepristone. In November 2017, the office of the president announced in response that the government would review the abortion law. In 2018, the Constitutional Court is set to hear a case which challenges the constitutionality of the abortion law. Sex-selective abortion, attributed to a cultural preference for sons, is widespread. Despite a 1987 revision of the Medical Code prohibiting physicians from using
South Korea court strikes down abortion law in landmark ruling. [SEP] Abortion in South Korea // Abortion in South Korea Abortion in South Korea is illegal in most circumstances, but illegal abortions are widespread. The government of South Korea criminalized abortion in the 1953 Criminal Code in all circumstances. This was amended by the Maternal and Child Health Law of 1973, which permits a physician to perform an abortion if the pregnant woman or her spouse suffers from certain hereditary or communicable diseases, if the pregnancy results from rape or incest, or if continuing the pregnancy would jeopardize the woman's health. Any physician who violates the law is punished by two years' imprisonment. Self-induced abortions are
South Korea court strikes down abortion law in landmark ruling. [SEP] Abortion in South Korea // illegal, and punishable by a fine or imprisonment. Nonetheless, abortions are commonly performed at hospitals and clinics. The abortion law was not strongly enforced, especially during campaigns to lower South Korea's high fertility rate in the 1970s and 1980s. As the fertility rate dropped in the 2000s, the government and anti-abortion campaigners turned their attention to illegal abortions and the government stepped up enforcement of the abortion law in response. Nonetheless, few women or physicians are prosecuted under the law. Much of the ensuing debate has focused on whether the government should crack down on illegal abortions, and whether the
South Korea court strikes down abortion law in landmark ruling. [SEP] Abortion in South Korea // Park Myung-bae of Pai Chai University, estimate that there may be as many as 500,000 or 1 million abortions per year. [[Category:Abortion by Abortion in South Korea Abortion in South Korea is illegal in most circumstances, but illegal abortions are widespread. The government of South Korea criminalized abortion in the 1953 Criminal Code in all circumstances. This was amended by the Maternal and Child Health Law of 1973, which permits a physician to perform an abortion if the pregnant woman or her spouse suffers from certain hereditary or communicable diseases, if the pregnancy results from rape or incest, or if
South Korea court strikes down abortion law in landmark ruling. [SEP] Abortion in South Korea // prenatal testing to reveal the sex of the child, the ratio of boys to girls at birth continued to climb through the 1990s. The 1987 law was ruled unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court in 2008. Using a 2005 survey of 25 hospitals and 176 private clinics, one study estimated that 342,433 induced abortions were performed that year, which would imply an abortion rate of 29.8 abortions per 1000 women aged 15–44. The rate was higher among single women than among married women. The Ministry of Health and Welfare estimated that 169,000 induced abortions were performed in 2010. Other researchers, including
South Korea court strikes down abortion law in landmark ruling. [SEP] Whole Woman's Health v. Hellerstedt // Whole Woman's Health v. Hellerstedt Whole Woman's Health v. Hellerstedt, 579 U.S. ___ (2016), is a landmark United States Supreme Court case decided on June 27, 2016. The Court ruled 5–3 that Texas cannot place restrictions on the delivery of abortion services that create an undue burden for women seeking an abortion. On June 28, the Supreme Court refused to hear challenges from Wisconsin and Mississippi where federal appeals courts had struck down similar laws. Other states with similar laws may also be impacted. It has been called the most significant abortion rights case before the Supreme Court since "Planned
South Korea court strikes down abortion law in landmark ruling. [SEP] Law of South Korea // A person arrested for a crime also has the right to have his family or other close kin promptly notified as to the reason, time, and place of his detention. The Korean Penal code is organized into 372 articles, further organized into 4 chapters of general provisions and 42 chapters of specific provisions. Abortion is restricted under the Korean Penal Code. Until recently there was little English literature written about Korean civil procedure. The primary body of law on civil procedure is the Korean Civil Procedure Act and the Korean Rules of Civil Procedure (KRCP). Another important area is the
South Korea court strikes down abortion law in landmark ruling. [SEP] Law of South Korea // of appeals can examine the facts as well as law and the parties can submit new allegations and pieces of evidence. After the appellate court makes a decision, the parties can appeal to the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court hears a large number of appeal cases (about 8,859 in 2006) and sometimes rules on factual issues as well. After the appeal process is over, the judgment is finalized and is binding. The enforcement of civil judgments is dictated by the Civil Execution Act. Judgments rendered by a foreign court can be enforced. Private Law issues in Korea are regulated by
South Korea court strikes down abortion law in landmark ruling. [SEP] Intact dilation and extraction // challenges, with Nebraska's the first to reach decision in "Stenberg v. Carhart". The Federal District Court held Nebraska's statute unconstitutional on two counts. One being the bill's language was too broad, potentially rendering a range of abortion procedures illegal, and thus, creating an undue burden on a woman's ability to choose. The other count was the bill failed to provide a necessary exception for the health of the woman. The decision was appealed to and affirmed by both the Eighth Circuit and the Supreme Court in June 2000, thus resolving the legal challenges to similar state bans nationwide. Since the
South Korea court strikes down abortion law in landmark ruling. [SEP] Abortion in Canada // decision. The Ontario Court of Appeal set aside the acquittal and ordered a re-trial. Morgentaler, in turn, appealed to the Supreme Court of Canada. In a landmark decision, the Court declared in 1988 the entirety of the country's abortion law to be unconstitutional. The court noted that "[f]orcing a woman, by threat of criminal sanction, to carry a fetus to term unless she meets certain criteria unrelated to her own priorities and aspirations" and that the law "asserts that the woman's capacity to reproduce is to be subject, not to her own control, but to that of the state" were
Houston reports 3 teens treated for vape-related lung issues. [SEP] Electronic cigarette // use JUUL. Vaping frequently takes place in bathroom stalls at school, and some students are able to vape in class undetected by teachers. There has been an increasing trend in vaping among adolescents. In 2011 the National Youth Tobacco Survey (NYTS) began surveying vaping use. Lifetime use among middle school aged students in 2011 was 1.4% and increased 3% by 2013. Ongoing use (use within 30 days) among middle school students in 2011 was 0.6% and increased to 3.9% by 2014. Among high school students, Lifetime use in 2011 was 4.7% and increased to 11.9% by 2013, and ongoing use
Houston reports 3 teens treated for vape-related lung issues. [SEP] Electronic cigarette // and Juuling is a large part of internet culture for young people and the subject of many memes on social media. In 2017, about 13 percent of 8th graders, 24 percent of 10th graders, and nearly 28 percent of 12th graders at American schools reported vaping in the past year, according to research sponsored by the National Institutes of Health. Survey data suggests that teens use e-cigarettes substantially more than cigarettes and that teenagers tend to perceive as e-cigarettes as safer than cigarettes or harmless. Boys are more likely to use e-cigarettes than girls and are twice as likely to
Houston reports 3 teens treated for vape-related lung issues. [SEP] JUUL // 15-year old son of the plaintiff made him "heavily addicted to nicotine" causing him to be "anxious, highly irritable and prone to angry outbursts." In late 2018, news reports noted increasing rates of JUUL addiction in teenagers, which negatively impacts brain development and relationships. JUUL's high nicotine content has attracted concern because of nicotine's addictive properties and also because nicotine can cause impaired lung and brain development, especially of the prefrontal cortex, which affects judgement and impulse control. Particular concern has been expressed about the lack of vaping cessation treatments for adolescents, and the FDA has scheduled a public hearing
Houston reports 3 teens treated for vape-related lung issues. [SEP] Electronic cigarette // Public Health England say there is no evidence that e-cigarettes increase teen tobacco smoking, and tentative evidence that e-cigarettes divert young people away from cigarettes; but in the US, researchers say use by young people correlates with increased desire to smoke tobacco, and that teenagers who have used an e-cigarette are more inclined to become smokers than those who had not. Most adolescents who vape do not smoke cigarettes. Most say that when they vape, they use liquid without nicotine. Motivation for use by minors is not likely to be associated with quitting smoking. It is more likely to be
Houston reports 3 teens treated for vape-related lung issues. [SEP] Youth smoking // risk or protective factor for traditional cigarette smoking is debatable, however adolescents are very susceptible to the lure that accompanies e-cigarettes. Ultimately, e-cigarettes may play the role of a ‘gateway drug’ to smoking traditional cigarettes. A new trend among youth is using e-cigarettes to vaporize liquid marijuana which can increase the potency of strain of THC increasing the potential consequences to adolescent brain development. Following e-cigarettes, the next most commonly used tobacco product among youth are cigars. In 2016 it was estimated that 7.7% of high school students smoked cigars. From 2000 to 2012 there was a surge in adolescent
Houston reports 3 teens treated for vape-related lung issues. [SEP] Nicotine Anonymous // rates. Acupuncture, hypnosis, inpatient treatment, and Nicotine Anonymous have not been shown effective thus far. In a controlled study 205 alcoholics, with heavy tobacco dependence (an average of 26.8 cigarettes per day) and three months or more of continuous abstinence from drugs and alcohol, were placed at random in one of three treatment groups: an American Lung Association Quit Program plus Nicotine Anonymous meetings group, a behavioral counseling plus physical exercise group, or a behavioral counseling plus nicotine gum group. The effectiveness of the treatment programs was measured at post-treatment, six months, and twelve-months following post-treatment based on self-reports confirmed
Houston reports 3 teens treated for vape-related lung issues. [SEP] Inhalant // away for treatment. Despite being moved to the new community of Natuashish in 2002, serious inhalant abuse problems have continued. Similar problems were reported in Sheshatshiu in 2000 and also in Pikangikum First Nation. In 2012, the issue once again made the news media in Canada. In Mexico, the inhaling of a mixture of gasoline and industrial solvents, known locally as "Activo" or "Chemo", has risen in popularity among the homeless and among the street children of Mexico City in recent years. The mixture is poured onto a handkerchief and inhaled while held in one's fist. In the US, ether
Houston reports 3 teens treated for vape-related lung issues. [SEP] Youth in Saudi Arabia // National Youth Strategy as well as conduct surveys asking youth to comment on their issues and needs, so that the country knows what services to provide for them. Smoking is one health concern that affects Saudi youth. Smoking prevalence among sixteen- to eighteen-year-old students in secondary schools located in Riyadh was "high and alarming", according to a 2011 study published in the "Annals of Thoracic Medicine". Out of 1272 students studied, the percentage of students that were currently smoking was about 19.5% (31.2% of boys and 8.9% of girls), and the percentage of students that had smoked before was about
Houston reports 3 teens treated for vape-related lung issues. [SEP] Youth smoking // function. While many of these cancers and diseases can develop when an individual is of an older age, changes in one's physical well being contributing to these diseases may begin during adolescence. In a study examining nearly 10,000 males and females ranging in age from ten to eighteen across the United States, adolescents who smoked cigarettes exhibited impaired pulmonary function. Adolescent smokers exhibited delayed growth in lung function, as well as mild airway obstruction. While heart disease and stroke are consequences more commonly seen in adulthood, early signs of these effects can often be found in adolescent smokers. In addition,
Houston reports 3 teens treated for vape-related lung issues. [SEP] Positions of medical organizations on electronic cigarettes // youths and they are now the most commonly used tobacco product among adolescents. Initiation of electronic cigarette use is strongly associated with the subsequent initiation of combustible tobacco product use among adolescents." In January 2014, the International Union Against Tuberculosis and Lung Disease released a statement asserting that the benefits and safety of e-cigarettes have not been scientifically proven. The statement highlighted concerns with regards to "re-normalization" of smoking behavior and exposure of third parties to possibly dangerous emissions from e-cigarettes, and strongly supported regulation of electronic cigarettes, preferably as medicines. The World Lung Foundation (now known as Vital Strategies)
Scientists look to stem cells to mend broken hearts [SEP] Sara Rankin // as a postdoctoral researcher in 1992. , Rankin is based in the Faculty of Medicine at the National Heart and Lung Institute (NHLI), where she was appointed Professor in 2010. Rankin and her team are trying to navigate the mesenchymal stem cells found in bone marrow to injured sites around the body, where they can promote regeneration in nearby tissue and dampen the immune system. The regulated movement of stem cells from bone marrow to sites of tissue damage could treat broken bones or heart disease. She is the lead for biology and therapeutics at the Blast Injury Centre at
Scientists look to stem cells to mend broken hearts [SEP] Induced stem cells // rat hearts and reduced remodeling of the heart after ischemic damage. The team of scientists, who were led by Sheng Ding, used a cocktail of nine chemicals (9C) for transdifferentiation of human skin cells into beating heart cells. With this method, more than 97% of the cells began beating, a characteristic of fully developed, healthy heart cells. The chemically induced cardiomyocyte-like cells (ciCMs) uniformly contracted and resembled human cardiomyocytes in their transcriptome, epigenetic, and electrophysiological properties. When transplanted into infarcted mouse hearts, 9C-treated fibroblasts were efficiently converted to ciCMs and developed into healthy-looking heart muscle cells within the organ. This
Scientists look to stem cells to mend broken hearts [SEP] Hwang Woo-suk // this ability to turn stem cells into a super "repair kit" for the body, theoretically to use stem cells to generate healthy tissue to replace that either damaged by trauma or compromised by disease. The many conditions and illnesses that may eventually be treated by stem cell therapy include Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, heart disease, stroke, arthritis, diabetes, burns, and spinal cord damage. In March 2012, it was announced that Hwang would collaborate with Russian scientists in an attempt to clone a woolly mammoth from remains found in Siberia. He had previously successful cloned eight coyotes in March 2011 using
Scientists look to stem cells to mend broken hearts [SEP] Stem-cell therapy // cells with the use of embryonic stem cells. Since 2003, researchers have successfully transplanted corneal stem cells into damaged eyes to restore vision. "Sheets of retinal cells used by the team are harvested from aborted fetuses, which some people find objectionable." When these sheets are transplanted over the damaged cornea, the stem cells stimulate renewed repair, eventually restore vision. The latest such development was in June 2005, when researchers at the Queen Victoria Hospital of Sussex, England were able to restore the sight of forty people using the same technique. The group, led by Sheraz Daya, was able to successfully
Scientists look to stem cells to mend broken hearts [SEP] Stem-cell therapy // developed, non-invasive technique developed for easier clinical use. Dogs receiving this treatment showed greater flexibility in their joints and less pain. Stem cells have successfully been used to ameliorate healing in the heart after myocardial infarction in dogs. Adipose and bone marrow derived stem cells were removed and induced to a cardiac cell fate before being injected into the heart. The heart was found to have improved contractility and a reduction in the damaged area four weeks after the stem cells were applied. A different trial is underway for a patch made of a porous substance onto which the stem
Scientists look to stem cells to mend broken hearts [SEP] Cardiovascular Cell Therapy Research Network // clinical trials studying treatments for heart disease and peripheral artery disease. These sites include: In July 2008, the CCTRN opened enrollment in two studies in patients who had recently suffered heart attacks: TIME () and LateTIME (). The purpose of these studies was to determine if stem cells safely taken from an individual’s bone marrow could be transplanted back into the injured heart muscle of the individual and improve the heart’s ability to pump following a heart attack, as well as to determine the best time for transplanting the cells following a heart attack. The results of both studies were
Scientists look to stem cells to mend broken hearts [SEP] Annarosa Leri // Annarosa Leri Annarosa Leri, MD was an associate professor at Harvard University. Along with Professor Piero Anversa, Leri was engaged in medical research at Brigham and Women’s Hospital in Boston, an affiliate of Harvard Medical School. Since at least 2003 these researchers have been investigating the ability of the heart to regenerate damaged cells using cardiac stem cells. A paper published in "The Lancet" in 2011 and another paper published in "Circulation" in 2012 were acknowledged by Leri and Anversa to have “fictitious data points” and “altered figures.” The 2012 paper was retracted, and the 2011 paper already had an
Scientists look to stem cells to mend broken hearts [SEP] Stem cell laws // cells have been used to repair tissue damaged by disease. Because Embryonic Stem (ES) cells are cultured from the embryoblast 4–5 days after fertilization, harvesting them is most often done from donated embryos from "in vitro" fertilization (IVF) clinics. In January 2007, researchers at Wake Forest University reported that "stem cells drawn from amniotic fluid donated by pregnant women hold much of the same promise as embryonic stem cells." The European Union has yet to issue consistent regulations with respect to stem cell research in member states. Whereas Germany, Austria, Italy, Finland, Ireland, Portugal and the Netherlands prohibit or severely
Scientists look to stem cells to mend broken hearts [SEP] Endogenous cardiac stem cell // Endogenous cardiac stem cell Endogenous cardiac stem cells (eCSCs) are tissue-specific stem progenitor cells harboured within the adult mammalian heart. It has to be noted that a scientific-misconduct scandal, involving Harvard professor Piero Anversa, might indicate that the heart stem cell concept be broken. Therefore, the following article should be read with caution, as it builds on Anversa's results. Endogenous cardiac stem cells were first discovered in 2003 by Bernardo Nadal-Ginard, Piero Anversa and colleagues in the adult rat heart and since then have been identified and isolated from mouse, dog, porcine and human hearts. The adult heart was previously
Scientists look to stem cells to mend broken hearts [SEP] Stem-cell therapy // studied in people with severe heart disease. The work by Bodo-Eckehard Strauer was discredited by identifying hundreds of factual contradictions. Among several clinical trials reporting that adult stem cell therapy is safe and effective, actual evidence of benefit has been reported from only a few studies. Some preliminary clinical trials achieved only modest improvements in heart function following use of bone marrow stem cell therapy. Stem-cell therapy for treatment of myocardial infarction usually makes use of autologous bone marrow stem cells, but other types of adult stem cells may be used, such as adipose-derived stem cells. Possible mechanisms of recovery
Study suggests a second LDL test [SEP] Lipid hypothesis // evidence from numerous and multiple different types of clinical and genetic studies unequivocally establishes that LDL causes ASCVD." There was ongoing contention about the results and meaning of intervention studies undertaken before the introduction of statins. A meta-analysis of cholesterol-lowering trials found that trials that were supportive of the lipid hypothesis were cited almost six times as often as those that were not, and although there was a similar number of trials unsupportive of the hypothesis, none of them were cited after 1970; some of the supportive reviews also exclude and ignore certain trials which were less favorable to the
Study suggests a second LDL test [SEP] Cholesterol // a calculation and assumptions) cholesterol carried by LDL (i.e. Lower Density {than water} Lipids-transported-within-proteins) particles ("which drive arterial disease"). It is recommended to test cholesterol at least every five years if a person has total cholesterol of 5.2 mmol/L or more (200+ mg/dL), or if a man over age 45 or a woman over age 50 has HDL-C values less than 1 mmol/L (40 mg/dL), or there are other drivers heart disease and stroke. Additional drivers of heart disease include diabetes mellitus, hypertension (or use of anti-hypertensive medication), low HDL level, family history of coronary artery disease (CAD) and hypercholesterolemia,
Study suggests a second LDL test [SEP] Chronic endothelial injury hypothesis // the hypertension often seen with atherosclerosis. The role LDL plays suggests two different approaches to treatment and prevention. The first approach involves discouraging the accumulation of LDL by lowering the levels of serum LDL, an idea more closely associated with the lipid hypothesis. A major breakthrough involved the discovery of statins, a class of drugs which help to clear LDL from the bloodstream. It has been demonstrated conclusively that elevated levels of LDL are associated with higher risk of mortality from coronary heart disease (CHD); it has also been shown that statins substantially lower the risk of mortality in patients
Study suggests a second LDL test [SEP] Apolipoprotein B // first becoming obviously symptomatic as heart disease, stroke & many other body wide complications after decades of progression. There is considerable evidence that concentrations of ApoB and especially the NMR assay (specific for LDL-particle concentrations) are superior indicators of vascular/heart disease driving physiology than either total cholesterol or LDL-cholesterol (as long promoted by the NIH starting in the early 1970s). However, primarily for historic cost/complexity reasons, cholesterol, and estimated LDL-cholesterol by calculation, remains the most commonly promoted lipid test for the risk factor of atherosclerosis. ApoB is routinely measured using immunoassays such as ELISA or nephelometry. Refined and automated NMR
Study suggests a second LDL test [SEP] Lipid profile // This screening can be valuable to detect genetic diseases such as familial hypercholesterolemia that can be lethal if not treated early. Traditionally, most laboratories have required patients to fast for 9–12 hours before screening. However, recent studies have questioned the utility of fasting before lipid panels, and some diagnostic labs now routinely accept non-fasting samples. Typically the laboratory measures only three quantities: total cholesterol; HDL; Triglycerides. From these three data LDL may be calculated. According to Friedewald's equation: Other calculations of LDL from those same three data have been proposed which yield some significantly different results. VLDL may be defined
Study suggests a second LDL test [SEP] Low-density lipoprotein // Some in the medical community have suggested the correspondence between Pattern B and CHD is stronger than the correspondence between the LDL number measured in the standard lipid profile test. Tests to measure these LDL subtype patterns have been more expensive and not widely available, so the common lipid profile test is used more often. There has also been noted a correspondence between higher triglyceride levels and higher levels of smaller, denser LDL particles and alternately lower triglyceride levels and higher levels of the larger, less dense (a.k.a. "buoyant") LDL. With continued research, decreasing cost, greater availability and wider acceptance
Study suggests a second LDL test [SEP] Vertical auto profile // Studies report that this comprehensive test is able to identify more than twice the number of patients with lipid abnormalities than the standard lipid panel (cholesterol and triglyceride test). The VAP test directly measures and routinely reports all five lipoprotein classes and sub-classes, including LDL, HDL, intermediate-density lipoprotein (IDL), very low density lipoprotein (VLDL), and lipoprotein (a) [Lp(a)]. The VAP technology also measures and reports LDL particle concentration (LDL-P). The test meets the American Diabetes Association and American College of Cardiology (ADA-ACC) cholesterol guidelines for people at high risk of heart attack and stroke (including people with Type 2 diabetes
Study suggests a second LDL test [SEP] Cholesterol // and then every 3–12 months thereafter. A blood sample after 12-hour fasting is taken by a doctor, or a home cholesterol-monitoring device is used to measure a lipid profile, an approach used to estimate a person's lipoproteins, the vastly more important issue because lipoproteins have always been concordant with outcomes though the lipid profile is commonly discordant LDL Particle Number and Risk of Future Cardiovascular Disease in the Framingham Offspring Study. The lipid profile measures: (a) total cholesterol, (b) cholesterol associated with HDL (i.e. Higher Density {than water} Lipids-transported-within-proteins) particles ("which can regress arterial disease"), (c) triglycerides and (d) (by
Study suggests a second LDL test [SEP] Low-density lipoprotein // predict cardiovascular events, many other correlates of these clinical outcomes, such as diabetes mellitus, obesity and smoking, lose most of their predictive accuracy. In the USA, the American Heart Association, NIH, and NCEP provide a set of guidelines for fasting LDL-Cholesterol levels, estimated or measured, and risk for heart disease. As of about 2005, these guidelines were: Over time, with more clinical research, these recommended levels keep being reduced because LDL reduction, including to abnormally low levels, was the most effective strategy for reducing cardiovascular death rates in one large double blind, randomized clinical trial of men with hypercholesterolemia; far
Study suggests a second LDL test [SEP] Low-density lipoprotein // LDL, not measured low-density lipoprotein concentrations, the accurate approach. The feasibility of these figures has been questioned by sceptics, claiming that many members of the AHA and NIH are heavily associated with pharmaceutical companies giving them bias towards lowering cholesterol levels and such guidelines giving rise to increased use of cholesterol lowering medicine such as statins. A study was conducted measuring the effects of guideline changes on LDL cholesterol reporting and control for diabetes visits in the US from 1995 to 2004. It was found that although LDL cholesterol reporting and control for diabetes and coronary heart disease visits improved
Scientists debate cause of dolphin deaths. [SEP] Maui's dolphin // not have their cause of death assessed or it was unknown. Six deaths were linked to possible or known net entanglement, six deaths to natural causes, and two deaths to human interaction. Dolphins can get entangled in fishing nets and drown. The DOC Incident Database contains no reports of a Māui's dolphin mortality in a trawl net. Some groups in the fishing industry are against increased bans on set nets into waters further offshore and inside harbours, and say other factors are responsible for the decline in the population, including disease, pollution, mining, and natural predation. Since the first major
Scientists debate cause of dolphin deaths. [SEP] Chilika Lake // deaths in 2003-04, 11 in 2004-05, 8 in 2005-06 and 5 in 2006-07. 40% of the 2006-07 deaths were by mechanised boats. Since 2004, the Whale and Dolphin Conservation Society has been conducting a science-based community education project to conserve the Irrawaddy dolphins and Chilika Lake. They have determined the primary cause of mortality for this population of dolphins is floating gill nets and hook line fisheries and the secondary cause is boat strikes from increasing unmanaged tourism activities. The Irrawaddy dolphins have a seemingly mutualistic relationship of co-operative fishing with the traditional fishermen. Fishermen recall when they would call
Scientists debate cause of dolphin deaths. [SEP] Dolphin Research Center // "Sun-Sentinel" alleged that the Dolphin Research Center failed to report the birth and death of a dolphin calf to the National Marine Fisheries Service in 2001, nor did it report the birth of a calf in 2002. The National Marine Fisheries Service is required to keep a record of captive marine mammal births, deaths, and transfers in the United States. After Hurricane Andrew struck the Florida Keys in 1992, the DRC dolphin "Annessa" escaped or was washed out of her sea pen. Opponents of dolphin captivity including Ric O'Barry allege that Annessa is an example of a captive-born dolphin successfully
Scientists debate cause of dolphin deaths. [SEP] Flora and fauna of Odisha // impact dolphin behavior and cause several accidental dolphin deaths each year. CDA conducts an annual census of dolphin deaths. They report 15 deaths in 2003–04, 11 in 2004–05, 8 in 2005–06 and 5 in 2006–07. 40% of the 2006–07 deaths were by mechanised boats. Since 1984, the Whale and Dolphin Conservation Society has been conducting a science-based community education project to conserve the Irrawaddy dolphins and Chilika Lake. They have determined the primary cause of mortality for this population of dolphins is floating gill nets and hook line fisheries and the secondary cause is boat strikes from increasing unmanaged tourism
Scientists debate cause of dolphin deaths. [SEP] Environmental impact of the Deepwater Horizon oil spill // February is not even over yet." From mid-January to late March 2011, scientists counted almost 200 dead dolphins in the Gulf, with another 90 in 2010. After investigating the deaths, NOAA put a gag order on the results, saying that the research is part of a criminal investigation of the spill. Numerous independent scientists said they have been "personally rebuked by federal officials for speaking out of turn to the media about efforts to determine the cause" of the deaths. In April 2011, one year from the onset of the spill, scientists confirmed that they had discovered oil on dead
Scientists debate cause of dolphin deaths. [SEP] Taiji dolphin drive hunt // dolphins may officially only be killed by driving a metal pin into the neck of the dolphin, which causes them to die within seconds according to a memo from Senzo Uchida, the executive secretary of the Japan Cetacean Conference on Zoological Gardens and Aquariums. A veterinary team's analysis of 2011 video footage of a Japanese hunters killing striped dolphins using this method suggested that in one case death took over four minutes. A few dolphins from each hunt may be selected for captivity and sold to marine parks around the world. In May 2015, the World Association of Zoos and
Scientists debate cause of dolphin deaths. [SEP] Maui's dolphin // is contrary to a NABU paper submitted to the Scientific Committee of the International Whaling Commission in June 2013, which referred back to the database that the number of fatal Māui's entanglements in fishing nets has increased, from an average of one per year, to 1.33 per year, since 2008. In 2012, the majority of a government-appointed panel of experts estimated that set-netting and trawling resulted in an average of five Māui's dolphin deaths each year. In 2006, "Brucella" was found in a dead Māui's dolphin and DOC says this bacterial infection could have serious ramifications for the small Māui's
Scientists debate cause of dolphin deaths. [SEP] Harmful algal bloom // are caused by harmful algal blooms. In 1999, over 65 bottlenose dolphins died during a red tide in Florida. In 2013 a red tide in southwest Florida killed a record number of Manatee. Whales have also died in large numbers. During the period from 2005 to 2014, Argentina reported an average 65 baby whales dying which experts have linked to algal blooms. A whale expert there expects the whale population to be reduced significantly. In 2003 off Cape Cod in the North Atlantic, at least 12 humbpack whales died from toxic algae from a red tide. In 2015 Alaska and
Scientists debate cause of dolphin deaths. [SEP] Bottlenose dolphin // killed harbour porpoises. University of Aberdeen researchers say the dolphins do not eat their victims, but are simply competing for food. However, Dr. Read of Duke University, a porpoise expert researching similar cases of porpoise killings that had occurred in Virginia in 1996 and 1997, holds a different view. He states dolphins and porpoises feed on different types of fish, thus food competition is an unlikely cause of the killings. Similar behaviour has been observed in Ireland. In the first half of July, 2014, four attacks with three Porpoise fatalities were observed and caught on video by the Cardigan Bay
Scientists debate cause of dolphin deaths. [SEP] Deepwater Horizon oil spill // oil and dispersants to coral also found that the dispersants were more toxic than the oil. A 2015 study by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, published in "PLOS ONE," links the sharp increase in dolphin deaths to the "Deepwater Horizon" oil spill. On 12 April 2016, a research team reported that 88 percent of about 360 baby or stillborn dolphins within the spill area "had abnormal or under-developed lungs", compared to 15 percent in other areas. The study was published in the April 2016 " Diseases of Aquatic Organisms". By June 2010, 143 spill-exposure cases had been reported to
A lot of the problems with forest fires ... is because of bad policy (not to clear out the forests) that was put in place by environmentalists. [SEP] Rodeo–Chediski Fire // forests. The group, Sierra Club, responded by saying they have long supported the thinning of underbrush and small trees through controlled burns, not the logging of large trees. But this fire, among other devastating drought-year fires in the American West, helped propel new forest management laws, enacted by both the U.S. Congress and local authorities. Of these the most notable is the Healthy Forests Restoration Act, which President George W. Bush signed into law in 2003. Although these policies presented high-profile, short-term solutions, the ecological effects of these policies are hotly debated among forestry experts. The arsonist, who received a
A lot of the problems with forest fires ... is because of bad policy (not to clear out the forests) that was put in place by environmentalists. [SEP] Forest restoration // world, forest fires cover a heavy toll on forests. That can be because of provoked deforestation in order to substitute forests by crop areas, or in dry areas, because of wild fires occurring naturally or intentionally. A whole section of forest landscape restoration in linked to this particular problem, as in many cases, the net loss of ecosystem value is very high and can open the drop to an accelerated further degradation of the soil conditions through erosion and desertification. This indeed has dire consequences on both the quality of the habitats and their related fauna. Nevertheless, in some specific
A lot of the problems with forest fires ... is because of bad policy (not to clear out the forests) that was put in place by environmentalists. [SEP] 1997 Indonesian forest fires // suffered from air pollution. The 1997 Indonesian forest fires were caused by changing land use which made the tropical forest vulnerable to fire during a drought associated with that year's El Niño. Indonesian forests have historically been resistant to burning even during long dry seasons and despite the use of fire to clear land for swidden agriculture. The land use changes that led to the fires were a combination of industrial-scale logging, draining peatlands for conversion to oil palm and fast-growing tree plantations, and a massive government program to drain swamps and convert them to rice paddies. A total of
A lot of the problems with forest fires ... is because of bad policy (not to clear out the forests) that was put in place by environmentalists. [SEP] Tahoe Regional Planning Agency // TRPA regulations that purportedly caused problems that led to the loss of hundreds of structures. Contrary to the allegations of staff misconduct and detrimental agency policies, the U.S. Forest Service fire investigations in the Angora fire Investigations confirmed that most of the structures caught fire from "firebrands"—pieces of burning wood—carried in the smoke column either from neighboring structures or from nearby burning vegetation. The investigations found that some homes had highly flammable wooden shake roofs and inadequate fire clearance around the structures. In many cases, winter fire wood and kindling supplies were piled too close to homes. The study did
A lot of the problems with forest fires ... is because of bad policy (not to clear out the forests) that was put in place by environmentalists. [SEP] Yellowstone National Park // Fire monitors also regulate fire through educational services to the public and have been known to temporarily ban campfires from campgrounds during periods of high fire danger. The common notion in early United States land management policies was that all forest fires were bad. Fire was seen as a purely destructive force and there was little understanding that it was an integral part of the ecosystem. Consequently, until the 1970s, when a better understanding of wildfire was developed, all fires were suppressed. This led to an increase in dead and dying forests, which would later provide the fuel load for
A lot of the problems with forest fires ... is because of bad policy (not to clear out the forests) that was put in place by environmentalists. [SEP] 2016 Uttarakhand forest fires // comes in the way of removing pine trees in the areas where they are invading. Apart from accidental fires, a number of causes and motivations for setting fires have been noted which include encroachment on forest lands and concealing illegal timber extraction. Fires are also set by honey and sal seed collectors, to scare away wild animals, or to improve grass growth. Fires destroy biodiversity directly and have more indirect long-term impacts including the encouragement of fire and pioneer species. It has been suggested that the dark carbon dust emitted by the fires deposited on Himalayan glaciers could hasten their
A lot of the problems with forest fires ... is because of bad policy (not to clear out the forests) that was put in place by environmentalists. [SEP] Wildfire suppression // Smoke from fires is an irritant and a pollutant. Attempts to thin out the fuel load may be met with opposition due to the desirability of forested areas. Wildland goals may be further resisted because of endangered species protections and habitat preservation. The ecological benefit of fire is often overridden by the economic benefits of protecting structures and lives. Additionally, federal policies that cover wildland areas usually differ from local and state policies that govern urban lands. In North America, the belief that fire suppression has substantially reduced the average annual area burned is widely held by resource managers and
A lot of the problems with forest fires ... is because of bad policy (not to clear out the forests) that was put in place by environmentalists. [SEP] Wildfire // However, prevention policies must consider the role that humans play in wildfires, since, for example, 95% of forest fires in Europe are related to human involvement. Sources of human-caused fire may include arson, accidental ignition, or the uncontrolled use of fire in land-clearing and agriculture such as the slash-and-burn farming in Southeast Asia. In 1937, U.S. President Franklin D. Roosevelt initiated a nationwide fire prevention campaign, highlighting the role of human carelessness in forest fires. Later posters of the program featured Uncle Sam, characters from the Disney movie "Bambi", and the official mascot of the U.S. Forest Service, Smokey Bear.
A lot of the problems with forest fires ... is because of bad policy (not to clear out the forests) that was put in place by environmentalists. [SEP] Fire ecology // this particular mechanism, forest fire management can be helpful by creating rich soil, killing competitors, and allowing seeds to be released. Fire policy in the United States involves the federal government, individual state governments, tribal governments, interest groups, and the general public. The new federal outlook on fire policy parallels advances in ecology and is moving towards the view that many ecosystems depend on disturbance for their diversity and for the proper maintenance of their natural processes. Although human safety is still the number one priority in fire management, new US government objectives include a long-term view of ecosystems. The
A lot of the problems with forest fires ... is because of bad policy (not to clear out the forests) that was put in place by environmentalists. [SEP] Camp Fire (2018) // as the cause of recent wildfires in the state, including the Camp Fire and the concurrent Woolsey Fire in Southern California. In a tweet, he threatened to end federal assistance unless "gross mismanagement of the forests" is remedied. Trump elaborated on his claims in an interview with Chris Wallace and during his trip to Paradise, stating that "you've got to take care of the floors. You know the floors of the forest — very important" and that "[Finland] spent a lot of time on raking and cleaning and doing things and they don't have any problem." Finland's president Sauli Niinistö
United States President Donald Trump tweeted ""it is unbelievable that President Obama criticized me for the coronavirus response" and "he had 8 years to 'prepair' the next president for a pandemic and he failed. [SEP] Political positions of Donald Trump // is single payer. In 2014, after a New York physician returned from treating Ebola patients in West Africa and showed symptoms of the disease, Trump tweeted that if the doctor had Ebola, "Obama should apologize to the American people & resign!" When the doctor was later confirmed to have developed Ebola in New York, Trump tweeted that it was "Obama's fault" and "I have been saying for weeks for President Obama to stop the flights from West Africa. So simple, but he refused. A TOTAL incompetent!" Trump also criticized President Obama's decision to send 3,000 U.S. troops to affected regions
United States President Donald Trump tweeted ""it is unbelievable that President Obama criticized me for the coronavirus response" and "he had 8 years to 'prepair' the next president for a pandemic and he failed. [SEP] Mark Levin // Obama for the Ebola crisis, saying "the political policies of this administration which opens the door wide to people from the poorest parts of the world. We don't know who they are, we don't know if they have diseases." In March 2017, Levin alleged that the Obama administration had used "police state" surveillance tactics against the Donald Trump campaign during the 2016 presidential election. The "Associated Press" said that Levin "voiced without evidence the idea that Obama had wiretapped Trump Tower". Levin protested the "AP" report vigorously, demanding a retraction and an apology on the grounds that his sources for
United States President Donald Trump tweeted ""it is unbelievable that President Obama criticized me for the coronavirus response" and "he had 8 years to 'prepair' the next president for a pandemic and he failed. [SEP] Donald Trump on social media // Trump on Twitter "was a personal insult of some kind". , Trump had insulted 394 people (including private citizens), places, and things on Twitter, ranging from politicians to journalists and news outlets to entire countries. A 2015 Trump tweet against an 18-year-old college student who had challenged him at a New Hampshire political forum led to a wave of online harassment against her. In December 2016, then-president-elect Trump responded to criticism from the president of United Steelworkers Local 1999 in Indiana by tweeting that the local union leader "has done a terrible job representing workers"; the union president received threatening
United States President Donald Trump tweeted ""it is unbelievable that President Obama criticized me for the coronavirus response" and "he had 8 years to 'prepair' the next president for a pandemic and he failed. [SEP] Political positions of Donald Trump // to help combat the outbreak (see Operation United Assistance). As Dr. Kent Brantly returned to the U.S. for treatment, Trump tweeted that U.S. doctors who went abroad to treat Ebola were "great" but "must suffer the consequences" if they became infected and insisted that "the U.S. must immediately stop all flights from EBOLA infected countries or the plague will start and spread inside our 'borders.'" When an Ebola patient was scheduled to come to the U.S. for treatment, Trump tweeted, "now I know for sure that our leaders are incompetent. KEEP THEM OUT OF HERE!" Trump's suggestion on the Ebola
United States President Donald Trump tweeted ""it is unbelievable that President Obama criticized me for the coronavirus response" and "he had 8 years to 'prepair' the next president for a pandemic and he failed. [SEP] First 100 days of Donald Trump's presidency // Syria, Spicer compared President Bashar al-Assad to Adolf Hitler and stated that even Hitler had not used chemical weapons on his own people during World War II, ignoring the Germany's use of gas chambers during the Holocaust. Spicer apologized on the next day, saying, "I got into a topic that I shouldn't have, and I screwed up." By February 3, televised interviews by Kellyanne Conway, Counselor to the President, were dominating the news cycle in the First 100 Days, according to the "Washington Post" claiming it was partly because of "misconstrued facts" and "falsehoods". Examples include the February 2 interview
United States President Donald Trump tweeted ""it is unbelievable that President Obama criticized me for the coronavirus response" and "he had 8 years to 'prepair' the next president for a pandemic and he failed. [SEP] 2009 Flu pandemic in North America // the world to present a mortal case. The deceased man was suffering other chronic diseases. The Minister of Health informed he had diabetes and also was suffering from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). She also informed the man was infected inside Costa Rica because he had not traveled to Mexico. On August 11 was confirmed that Costa Rica's President, Óscar Arias Sánchez, was infected with the A(H1N1) virus, becoming the first head of state sick with the A(H1N1) virus President Arias returned to his normal activities after one week of isolation at his home. As of September 8 the Costa
United States President Donald Trump tweeted ""it is unbelievable that President Obama criticized me for the coronavirus response" and "he had 8 years to 'prepair' the next president for a pandemic and he failed. [SEP] Influenza pandemic // the current portal: Pandemic Flu Search. On 26 August 2004, Secretary of Health and Human Services, Tommy Thompson released a draft Pandemic Influenza Response and Preparedness Plan, which outlined a coordinated national strategy to prepare for and respond to an influenza pandemic. Public comments were accepted for 60 days. In a speech before the United Nations General Assembly on 14 September 2005, President George W. Bush announced the creation of the International Partnership on Avian and Pandemic Influenza. The Partnership brings together nations and international organizations to improve global readiness by: On 5 October 2005, Democratic Senators Harry Reid, Evan
United States President Donald Trump tweeted ""it is unbelievable that President Obama criticized me for the coronavirus response" and "he had 8 years to 'prepair' the next president for a pandemic and he failed. [SEP] Presidency of Donald Trump // began to appear on television." Trump later dismissed the criticism, saying he was "very proud" of an "amazing" response and that efforts to distribute necessary supplies and services were "doing well". "The Washington Post" noted, "on the ground in Puerto Rico, nothing could be further from the truth." Carmen Yulín Cruz, the mayor of Puerto Rico's capital San Juan, repeatedly criticized US relief efforts, saying that they were not reaching the people who needed the aid; on September 29 she made a desperate plea for help, saying that people are "dying, starving, thirsty". Trump responded by criticizing Puerto Rico officials,
United States President Donald Trump tweeted ""it is unbelievable that President Obama criticized me for the coronavirus response" and "he had 8 years to 'prepair' the next president for a pandemic and he failed. [SEP] Political positions of Donald Trump // crisis "would go against all the expert advice being offered," with doctors warning "that isolating West Africa would only make the Ebola outbreak much worse, potentially denying help and supplies from getting in," and possibly destabilizing the countries and contributing to the disease's spread outside West Africa. On August 3, 2016, Trump called the Zika virus outbreak in Florida "a big problem". He expressed his support for Florida Governor Rick Scott's handling of the crisis, saying that he's "doing a fantastic job". When asked if Congress should convene an emergency session to approve Zika funding, Trump answered, "I would say
United States President Donald Trump tweeted ""it is unbelievable that President Obama criticized me for the coronavirus response" and "he had 8 years to 'prepair' the next president for a pandemic and he failed. [SEP] Donald Trump on social media // resolve in the face of these cowardly terrorist attacks. He is more of a statesman than Donald Trump will ever be." Lewis Lukens, the former US ambassador to the UK, and the United States Conference of Mayors declared their support, with Lukens commending Khan's "strong leadership" in leading London forward after the attack and also praising the "extraordinary response" from the law enforcement community. Trump tweeted the following day that the London Mayor was offering a "pathetic excuse" for his statement, and alleging that the mainstream media were "working hard to sell" Khan's explanation. When asked about these comments following
Artificial Pancreas Continues to Show Promise [SEP] Artificial pancreas // device is configurable for use with only one hormone, or both. While trials continue to be run, the iLet has a projected final approval for the insulin-only system in 2020. Four studies on different artificial pancreas systems are being conducted starting in 2017 and going into the near future. The projects are funded by the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases(NIDDK), and are the final part of testing the devices before applying for approval for use. Participants in the studies are able to live their lives at home while using the devices and being monitored remotely for
Artificial Pancreas Continues to Show Promise [SEP] Artificial pancreas // the cells mature into endocrine cells which arrange in islet-like clusters and mimic the function of the pancreas, producing insulin and glucagon. The technology advanced from pre-clinical studies to FDA approval for phase 1 clinical trials in 2014, and presented two-year data from the trial in June 2018. They reported that their product, called PEC-Encap, has so far been safe and well tolerated in patients at a dose below therapeutic levels. The encapsulated cells were able to survive and mature after implantation, and immune system rejection was decreased due to the protective membrane. The second phase of the trial will
Artificial Pancreas Continues to Show Promise [SEP] Artificial pancreas // Artificial pancreas The artificial pancreas is a technology in development to help people with diabetes, primarily type 1, automatically and continuously control their blood glucose level by providing the substitute endocrine functionality of a healthy pancreas. The endocrine functionality of the pancreas is provided by islet cells which produce the hormones insulin and glucagon. Artificial pancreatic technology mimics the secretion of these hormones into the bloodstream in response to the body's changing blood glucose levels. Maintaining balanced blood sugar levels is crucial to the function of the brain, liver, and kidneys. Therefore, for type 1 patients, it is necessary that
Artificial Pancreas Continues to Show Promise [SEP] Artificial pancreas // the levels be kept balanced when the body cannot produce insulin itself. The artificial pancreas is a broad term for different bio-engineering strategies currently in development to achieve these requirements. Different bio-engineering approaches under consideration include: The medical equipment approach involves combining a continuous glucose monitor and an implanted insulin pump that can function together with a computer-controlled algorithm to replace the normal function of the pancreas. The development of continuous glucose monitors has led to the progress in artificial pancreas technology using this integrated system. The original devices for use in type 1 diabetes were blood glucose meters. Continuous
Artificial Pancreas Continues to Show Promise [SEP] Artificial pancreas // and appropriately provide insulin. Artificial pancreas The artificial pancreas is a technology in development to help people with diabetes, primarily type 1, automatically and continuously control their blood glucose level by providing the substitute endocrine functionality of a healthy pancreas. The endocrine functionality of the pancreas is provided by islet cells which produce the hormones insulin and glucagon. Artificial pancreatic technology mimics the secretion of these hormones into the bloodstream in response to the body's changing blood glucose levels. Maintaining balanced blood sugar levels is crucial to the function of the brain, liver, and kidneys. Therefore, for type 1 patients,
Artificial Pancreas Continues to Show Promise [SEP] Artificial pancreas // Minnesota, in collaboration with Schneider Children's Medical Center in Petah Tikva, Israel, are planning a 6-month study that will begin in early 2019 and will involve 112 adolescents and young adults, ages 14 to 30. The main object of the study is to compare the current Medtronic 670G system to a new Medtronic-developed system. The new system has programming that aims to improve glucose control around mealtime, which is still a big challenge in the field. The current 6-month study lead by the Bionic Pancreas team started in mid-2018 and enrolled 312 participants of ages 18 and above. The biotechnical
Artificial Pancreas Continues to Show Promise [SEP] Artificial pancreas // evaluate the efficacy of the product. ViaCyte has also been receiving financial support from JDRF on this project. In the United States in 2006, JDRF (formerly the Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation) launched a multi-year initiative to help accelerate the development, regulatory approval, and acceptance of continuous glucose monitoring and artificial pancreas technology. Grassroots efforts to create and commercialize a fully automated artificial pancreas system have also arisen directly from patient advocates and the diabetes community. Bigfoot Biomedical, a company founded by parents of children with T1D have created algorithms and are developing a closed loop device that monitor blood sugar
Artificial Pancreas Continues to Show Promise [SEP] Artificial pancreas // safety, efficacy, and a number of other factors. The International Diabetes Closed-Loop trial, led by researchers from the University of Virginia, is testing a closed-loop system called inControl, which has a smartphone user interface. 240 people of ages 14 and up are participating for 6 months. A full-year trial led by researchers from the University of Cambridge started in May 2017 and has enrolled an estimated 150 participants of ages 6 to 18 years. The artificial pancreas system being studied uses a smartphone and has a low glucose feature to improve glucose level control. The International Diabetes Center in Minneapolis,
Artificial Pancreas Continues to Show Promise [SEP] Artificial organ // to study the effect of environmental toxins on folliculogenesis. An artificial pancreas is used to substitute endocrine functionality of a healthy pancreas for diabetic and other patients who require it. It can be used to improve insulin replacement therapy until glycemic control is practically normal as evident by the avoidance of the complications of hyperglycemia, and it can also ease the burden of therapy for the insulin-dependent. Approaches include using an insulin pump under closed loop control, developing a bio-artificial pancreas consisting of a biocompatible sheet of encapsulated beta cells, or using gene therapy. An implantable machine that performs the
Artificial Pancreas Continues to Show Promise [SEP] Artificial pancreas // company Defymed, based in France, is developing an implantable bio-artificial device called MailPan which features a bio-compatible membrane with selective permeability to encapsulate different cells types, including pancreatic beta cells. The implantation of the device does not require conjunctive immuno-supressive therapy because the membrane prevents antibodies of the patient from entering the device and damaging the encapsulated cells. After being surgically implanted, the membrane sheet will be viable for years.The cells that the device holds can be produced from stem cells rather than human donors, and may also be replaced over time using input and output connections without surgery. Defymed
Obamacare "cuts seniors’ Medicare. [SEP] David McKinley // He explained "As it relates to the Medicare, I applaud what Paul Ryan was trying to do, because we need to have an adult conversation about it. The Congressional Budget Office determined that some of the out-of-pocket costs could double for seniors and that sent up a red flag for me that we need to look at it." In October 2011, he was the only Republican to vote against all three of the trade deals passed by Congress: Panama, Colombia, and South Korea. He said “Free trade deals like NAFTA and CAFTA have been nothing more than broken promises that
Obamacare "cuts seniors’ Medicare. [SEP] Protecting Access to Medicare Act of 2014 // Nancy Pelosi said that she supported the bill because she thought Republicans would use the situation, if the Medicare cuts went into effect, to attack Obamacare and because she didn't want seniors to worry about their access to their doctors. Sponsor of the bill Rep. Joe Pitts (R-PA) said he still supports a permanent fix and is "sponsoring this bill today because it is my earnest hope that this is the last patch we will have to pass." The bill was originally scheduled to be considered under a suspension of the rules, a procedure that would have required the bill
Obamacare "cuts seniors’ Medicare. [SEP] Deficit reduction in the United States // in 2012 to 5.4% GDP in 2022 and 6.2% GDP in 2037 and stabilize around that level. However, CBO projects that combined Medicare and Medicaid spending will rise from 5.4% GDP in 2012 to 7.5% GDP by 2022 and 10.4% GDP by 2037 and continue rising thereafter. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, also known as "Obamacare," includes cuts of $716 billion in Medicare over a decade, mainly reductions to projected future increases. These cuts would be paid by suppliers of Medicare services such as hospitals, not patients. Proposals to reduce Medicare costs align with proposals to reduce healthcare
Obamacare "cuts seniors’ Medicare. [SEP] Humana // mailings to elderly Medicare recipients. The mail was made to appear to contain official information about Medicare Advantage and prescription drug benefit information, but instead alleged that core Medicare benefits could be cut by the Obama administration's healthcare reform, a claim refuted by John Rother, AARP's executive vice president. Douglas Elmendorf, the head of the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) supported the claim that Medicare benefits could be cut, but his comments were in reference to just one of several congressional bills. CBO estimates of another healthcare reform bill found that changes to premiums would vary. The Centers for Medicare and
Obamacare "cuts seniors’ Medicare. [SEP] Political positions of Paul Ryan // and Affordable Care Act (ACA), also known as "Obamacare", the privatization of Medicare by issuing vouchers for private insurance, and block granting Medicaid funding to the states. Income tax rates would be lowered. Increases in defense spending, and decreases in federal funding for Medicaid and for health insurance for children, were proposed. On April 5, 2011, House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi tweeted that The Path to Prosperity was "a path to poverty for America's seniors and children". On April 13, 2011, speaking of Ryan's budget proposal, Obama said: "I don't think there's anything courageous about asking for sacrifice from those
Obamacare "cuts seniors’ Medicare. [SEP] Healthcare rationing in the United States // Klein described in the "Washington Post" how polls indicate senior citizens are increasingly resistant to healthcare reform because of concerns about cuts to the existing Medicare program that may be required to fund it. That is creating an unusual and potent political alliance, with Republicans arguing to protect the existing Medicare program although they historically opposed that and other major entitlement programs. The CBO scoring of the proposed H.R. 3200 (America's Affordable Health Choices Act of 2009) included $219 billion in savings over 10 years, some of which would come from Medicare changes. A concept called "quality-adjusted life year" (QALY
Obamacare "cuts seniors’ Medicare. [SEP] Rand Paul 2016 presidential campaign // to fixing the Social Security program, while preserving the system for seniors who have planned their lives around the program and implementing reforms to save the program for younger generations" Paul wants to repeal Obamacare and replace it with a more affordable free market alternative. Paul has said, "Government interventions in health care have driven up the cost of coverage and decreased competition within the market. More—not less—freedom to choose and innovate will make sure our health care system remains the best in the world." Paul has called for less intervention while maintaining support for a strong defense. He has
Obamacare "cuts seniors’ Medicare. [SEP] Political positions of Paul Ryan // nearly a decade later Ryan said Medicare is on an "unsustainable path". Ryan voted against the 2010 Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (ACA), also known as "Obamacare", and voted to repeal it in 2012. The Obama and Ryan health care reform plans capped Medicare spending at 0.5% of gross domestic product; while the ACA established the Independent Payment Advisory Board to control costs, which Ryan characterized as "15 un-elected, unaccountable bureaucrats," Ryan proposed that Congress set reimbursement levels. Ryan supported the American Health Care Act of 2017 (AHCA), the House Republican plan to repeal and replace the ACA; after
Obamacare "cuts seniors’ Medicare. [SEP] Jane Corwin // work to cut federal government spending, reduce taxes and repeal the health care overhaul that was enacted by the Democratic majority Congress in 2010. She signed a tax pledge, promising to oppose all efforts to increase marginal tax rates on individuals and businesses, and to oppose reductions of tax credits or deductions that are not matched by reductions in tax rates. She strongly supported U.S. Representative Paul Ryan's proposal to reform the Medicare program for senior citizens by turning it into a program that would give seniors vouchers to purchase private health insurance coverage. Corwin said the plan would protect
Obamacare "cuts seniors’ Medicare. [SEP] Michael F. Doyle // with terrorists. This small group of terrorists have made it impossible to spend any money". On October 16, 2012, Doyle released a statement criticizing the Republican budget introduced by Paul Ryan, saying that it would "be devastating for seniors in Pittsburgh." According to his report, this budget would eliminate new preventive care benefits for 113,000 Medicare beneficiaries in the district, as well as other cuts to Medicaid affordable housing, and food stamps. "That's why I voted against the Ryan budget when it was considered by Congress earlier this year, and why I am fighting hard to oppose Congressional Republicans' misguided
Evacuation plan 'out the window' when fire hit California town. [SEP] Carr Fire // evacuation place. Amtrak announced that their Coast Starlight service would stop in Sacramento and Klamath Falls with alternative transportation being provided. Containment lines remained the priority for firefighters overnight. Red flag warnings and heat advisories were put in place for the area. By the next morning, over 38,000 individuals had been evacuated. The Shasta College evacuation center reached capacity by July 28 and two more shelters operated by the Red Cross, and one at Grace Baptist Church, were opened. President Donald Trump declared a state of emergency for the state of California due to this fire and other fires burning
Evacuation plan 'out the window' when fire hit California town. [SEP] Camp Fire (2018) // California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection (Cal Fire), "Pretty much the community of Paradise is destroyed, it's that kind of devastation. The wind that was predicted came and just wiped it out." The first hours saw a cascade of failures in the emergency alert system, rooted in its patchwork, opt-in nature, and compounded by a loss of 17 cell towers. This point of failure in a fast-moving emergency allowed no room for error. Thousands of 911 calls inundated two emergency dispatchers on duty. Emergency alerts suffered human error as city officials failed to include four at-risk areas of the
Evacuation plan 'out the window' when fire hit California town. [SEP] Ferguson Fire // Trailer Court. On July 20, the fire jumped the Merced River, creating two spot fires north of the river in the Stanislaus National Forest near Miller Gulch and Ned Gulch. The spot fires burned an estimated total of . New mandatory evacuations were put in place for Rancheria Government Housing, Old El Portal, Foresta and the Yosemite View Lodge. A new evacuation center was opened at Yosemite Valley Elementary School in Yosemite National Park. The fire continued to burn in Ned's Gulch overnight and into July 21. Air and ground crews made concerted efforts only to make minimal impact on
Evacuation plan 'out the window' when fire hit California town. [SEP] Weed, California // central part of Weed at approximately 1:30pm and within 4 hours quickly spread to over . Evacuations were immediately ordered, and a shelter was first set up at College of the Siskiyous, but as fire headed towards the college, the evacuation center was relocated first to the Siskiyou Golden Fairgrounds in Yreka, then to Yreka and Mount Shasta High Schools, then to the Armory in Mt. Shasta. Over 200 structures were damaged or destroyed, including two churches, the elementary school, high school, and Roseburg mill. The schools and mill sustained only minimal damage to outbuildings. About 7,678 Pacific Power customers
Evacuation plan 'out the window' when fire hit California town. [SEP] Thomas Fire // implemented closures during the fire. On December 10, University of California, Santa Barbara cancelled classes, due to power outages and air quality concerns. The university also delayed its scheduled finals by a month. The expansion of the Thomas Fire also prompted more evacuation orders near Santa Barbara, with mandatory evacuation zones extending into Carpinteria and into the eastern outskirts of Santa Barbara. Amtrak passenger rail service between Oxnard and San Luis Obispo on the Pacific Surfliner was suspended indefinitely when the fire reached the route along the Rincon north of Ventura. Highways 150, 101, and 33 were partially shut down
Evacuation plan 'out the window' when fire hit California town. [SEP] October 2007 California wildfires // were destroyed and lives lost in the Cedar Fire. Residents of Wildcat Canyon and Muth Valley were ordered to evacuate, and the road was closed. During the late afternoon of October 23, the evacuations for Del Mar, Chula Vista, Poway, Del Mar Heights, and Scripps Ranch were lifted for many residents. At 9:50 P.M. PDT on October 23, 2007, the town of Julian, California was ordered to evacuate. Due to the fires, there was no power or phone service in the town. Evacuation sites in San Diego County included Qualcomm Stadium, Escondido High School, Mission Hills High School, Poway High
Evacuation plan 'out the window' when fire hit California town. [SEP] North Fire // 15, the main highway connecting Southern California with Las Vegas, Nevada, during the first day of the blaze. One-thousand fire fighters battled the blaze during the height of the fire, which as of the evening of July 17 was five percent contained. Mandatory evacuations were ordered for the towns of Phelan and Baldy Mesa, which were threatened or impacted by the fire. Two-hundred-four people utilized an emergency shelter set up at Serrano High School, in Phelan. The evacuation orders were lifted as crews worked to contain the fire. On the evening of July 18, the fire was reported to be
Evacuation plan 'out the window' when fire hit California town. [SEP] Carr Fire // area of Redding were put under mandatory evacuation orders. Power to residents in North Redding was shut off by Redding Electric Utility. A state of emergency was declared by Governor Jerry Brown. The evacuation center at Shasta High School was relocated to Shasta College. A firefighter was killed while operating a bulldozer. The National Guard was called in to help fight the fire on the night of July 26. The fire remained active overnight, with fire crews continuing to build containment lines. However, crews were stalled in their work due to the fire's extreme behavior. Just after midnight, evacuation orders
Evacuation plan 'out the window' when fire hit California town. [SEP] Road diet // of this effect is during the evacuations of the 2018 Camp Fire which killed at least 88 people and destroyed the town of Paradise, California. Out of four evacuation routes out of Paradise, three of which were narrow, two-lane mountain roads, the fourth, Skyway Boulevard, was the only artery that could effectively handle high amounts of traffic. A grand jury investigation for a similar fire nearby in 2008 had recommended “immediate modification of Skyway, from Paradise to Chico, as an emergency evacuation route, by removing trees and brush and creating fire barriers on both sides of the road.” However, in
Evacuation plan 'out the window' when fire hit California town. [SEP] 2016 California wildfires // to stay indoors, though parents were allowed to pick up their children. However, as the fire continued to spread, evacuation orders were issued for some homes along Palomino Valley Road and Oak Valley Middle School, with the students from Oak Valley Middle School being relocated by bus to Westview High School. The sudden change caused some confusion and chaos among parents attempting to pick up their children, and drew criticism towards the last-minute evacuation plan. The brush fire quickly grew to , but within a couple of hours, the fire was contained and further growth was stopped. At 4:34 PM
Treating First Time Shoulder Dislocations with Surgery Can Benefit Young Athletes, Study Shows [SEP] Dislocated shoulder // faster. If a shoulder cannot be relocated in the emergency room, relocation in the operating room may be required. This situation occurs in about 7% of cases. There does not appear to be any difference in outcomes when the arm is immobilized in internal versus external rotation following an anterior shoulder dislocation. A 2008 study of 300 people for almost six years found that conventional shoulder immobilisation in a sling offered no benefit. In young adults engaged in highly demanding activities shoulder surgery may be considered. Arthroscopic surgery techniques may be used to repair the glenoidal labrum, capsular ligaments, biceps
Treating First Time Shoulder Dislocations with Surgery Can Benefit Young Athletes, Study Shows [SEP] Dislocated shoulder // rotation, scapular manipulation, and the Stimson technique. After reduction X-rays are recommended for verification. The arm may than be placed in a sling for a few weeks. Surgery may be recommended in those with recurrent dislocations. About 1.7% of people have a shoulder dislocation at one point in time. In the United States this is about 24 per 100,000 people per year. They make up about half of major joint dislocations seen in emergency departments. Males are affected more often than females. A diagnosis of shoulder dislocation is often suspected based on patient history and physical examination. Radiographs are made
Treating First Time Shoulder Dislocations with Surgery Can Benefit Young Athletes, Study Shows [SEP] Shoulder problem // to reinjury, especially in young, active individuals. Ligaments are stretched and may tear due to dislocation. Torn ligaments and other problems resulting from dislocation can increase the chance of repeated dislocation. A shoulder that dislocates severely or often, injuring surrounding tissues or nerves, usually requires surgery to repair the damaged parts of the shoulder. Sometimes the doctor performs surgery through a tiny incision into which a small scope (arthroscope) is inserted to observe the inside of the joint. After this procedure, called arthroscopic surgery, the shoulder is generally restrained by a sling for three to six weeks, while full recovery,
Treating First Time Shoulder Dislocations with Surgery Can Benefit Young Athletes, Study Shows [SEP] Shoulder problem // sure the reduction did not fracture the surrounding bones. The arm is then immobilized in a sling or a device called a shoulder immobilizer for several days. Usually the doctor recommends resting the shoulder and applying ice three or four times a day. After pain and swelling have been controlled, the patient enters a rehabilitation program that includes exercises to restore the range of motion of the shoulder and strengthen the muscles to prevent future dislocations. These exercises may progress from simple motion to the use of weights. After treatment and recovery, a previously dislocated shoulder may remain more susceptible
Treating First Time Shoulder Dislocations with Surgery Can Benefit Young Athletes, Study Shows [SEP] Ulnar collateral ligament reconstruction // to rise in upcoming years. A study of youths who underwent UCLR surgery showed that boys and girls aged 15 to 19 had more surgical procedures than any other age group, with the rate of surgeries performed on 15 to 19 year olds increasing by 9% per year. USA Baseball, Major League Baseball and Little League Baseball have initiated the Pitch Smart program designed to decrease risk of elbow injuries in adolescent pitchers. The main risk factors for elbow injury from overhand throwing include number of pitches per game, innings pitched per season, months pitched per year and poor pitching
Treating First Time Shoulder Dislocations with Surgery Can Benefit Young Athletes, Study Shows [SEP] Joint dislocation // physiotherapy. On field reduction is crucial for joint dislocations. As they are extremely common in sports events, managing them correctly at the game at the time of injury, can reduce long term issues. They require prompt evaluation, diagnosis, reduction, and postreduction management before the person can be evaluated at a medical facility. After a dislocation, injured joints are usually held in place by a splint (for straight joints like fingers and toes) or a bandage (for complex joints like shoulders). Additionally, the joint muscles, tendons and ligaments must also be strengthened. This is usually done through a course of physiotherapy,
Treating First Time Shoulder Dislocations with Surgery Can Benefit Young Athletes, Study Shows [SEP] Joint dislocation // stabilized, depending on the severity, using arthroscopic surgery. The most common treatment method for a dislocation of the Glenohumeral Joint (GH Joint/Shoulder Joint) is exercise based management. Another method of treatment is to place the injured arm in a sling or in another immobilizing device in order to keep the joint stable. Some joints are more at risk of becoming dislocated again after an initial injury. This is due to the weakening of the muscles and ligaments which hold the joint in place. The shoulder is a prime example of this. Any shoulder dislocation should be followed up with thorough
Treating First Time Shoulder Dislocations with Surgery Can Benefit Young Athletes, Study Shows [SEP] Separated shoulder // from the leg. or the use of synthetic sutures or suture anchors Other surgeries have used a Rockwood screw that is inserted initially and then removed after 12 weeks. Physical therapy is always recommended after surgery, and most patients get flexibility back, although possibly somewhat limited. After one does have surgery, a sling should be worn to support and protect the shoulder for a few days. For the first couple physical therapy visits, the treatment will focus on controlling the pain and swelling. Type of treatment can include, ice and electrical stimulation, massage, or other hand on treatment to help
Treating First Time Shoulder Dislocations with Surgery Can Benefit Young Athletes, Study Shows [SEP] Shoulder problem // including physical therapy, takes several months. Arthroscopic techniques involving the shoulder are relatively new and many surgeons prefer to repair a recurrent dislocating shoulder by the time-tested open surgery under direct vision. There are usually fewer repeat dislocations and improved movement following open surgery, but it may take a little longer to regain motion. A shoulder separation occurs where the collarbone (clavicle) meets the shoulder blade (scapula). When ligaments that hold the AC (acromioclavicular) joint together are partially or completely torn, the outer end of the clavicle may slip out of place, preventing it from properly meeting the scapula. Most
Treating First Time Shoulder Dislocations with Surgery Can Benefit Young Athletes, Study Shows [SEP] Dislocated shoulder // dislocation. Usually, the shoulder is kept in its current position by use of a splint or sling. A pillow between the arm and torso may provide support and increase comfort. Strong analgesics are needed to allay the pain of a dislocation and the distress associated with it. Shoulder reduction may be accomplished with a number of techniques including traction-countertraction, external rotation, scapular manipulation, Stimson technique, Cunningham technique, or Milch technique. Pain can be managed during the procedures either by procedural sedation and analgesia or injected lidocaine into the shoulder joint. Injecting lidocaine into the joint may be less expensive and
Novartis hopeful for novel heart drug, despite 'modest' benefit [SEP] Novartis Institute for Tropical Diseases // hope to have at least two drug candidates going through clinical trials in patients by the year 2012. Novartis has also stated that the NITD will seek to make treatments developed by the NITD available without profit to the poor in developing nations in which these diseases are endemic. NITD is a small molecule drug discovery research institute. Research is currently focused on three main diseases: NITD's research model relies on global partnership with other research institutes. In 2008, NITD announced a 5-year collaborative research effort would be conducted in cooperation with the TB Alliance to develop new medicines for
Novartis hopeful for novel heart drug, despite 'modest' benefit [SEP] Alliance for Heart Failure // Heart Failure). They have a 12-month tenure. Day-to-day decisions are made by a steering committee. The Alliance for Heart Failure is supported and funded by Bayer, Medtronic Limited, Novartis Pharmaceuticals UK Ltd, and Roche Diagnostics Ltd. Funders are not responsible for any of the materials produced by the Alliance for Heart Failure, which are created independently by the Alliance's Secretariat. In 2016, the All Party Parliamentary Group on Heart Disease, chaired by Stuart Andrew MP, held an inquiry into living with heart failure. Written and oral evidence was provided by patients, healthcare professionals, and commissioners. The Inquiry's report, Focus on
Novartis hopeful for novel heart drug, despite 'modest' benefit [SEP] Novartis // summer of 2013, two Japanese universities retracted several publications of clinical trials that purported to show that Valsartan (branded as Diovan) had cardiovascular benefits, when it was found that statistical analysis had been manipulated, and that a Novartis employee had participated in the statistical analysis but had not disclosed his relationship with Novartis but only his affiliation with Osaka City University, where he was a lecturer. In January 2018, Novartis began being investigated by Greek authorities for allegedly bribing public officials in the 2006-2015 period. Two former prime ministers, former ministers served in the ministries of health and economy, and
Novartis hopeful for novel heart drug, despite 'modest' benefit [SEP] Imatinib // in 2013, ruling that the substance that Novartis sought to patent was indeed a modification of a known drug (the raw form of imatinib, which was publicly disclosed in the 1993 patent application and in scientific articles), that Novartis did not present evidence of a difference in therapeutic efficacy between the final form of Gleevec and the raw form of imatinib, and that therefore the patent application was properly rejected by the patent office and lower courts. One study demonstrated that imatinib mesylate was effective in patients with systemic mastocytosis, including those who had the D816V mutation in c-KIT. However,
Novartis hopeful for novel heart drug, despite 'modest' benefit [SEP] Novartis // for diseases without effective treatment options." He also said that companies like Novartis would invest less money in research in India as a result of the ruling. Novartis also emphasised that it continues to be committed to good access to its drugs; according to Novartis, by 2013, "95% of patients in India—roughly 16,000 people—receive Glivec free of charge... and it has provided more than $1.7 billion worth of Glivec to Indian patients in its support program since it was started..." On 17 May 2010, a jury in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York awarded
Novartis hopeful for novel heart drug, despite 'modest' benefit [SEP] Novartis // which Novartis will hold a 36,5% stake. In March 2018, GSK announced that it has reached an agreement with Novartis to acquire Novartis’ 36.5% stake in their Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture for $13 billion (£9.2 billion). Novartis fought a seven-year, controversial battle to patent Gleevec in India, and took the case all the way to the Indian Supreme Court, where the patent application was finally rejected. The patent application at the center of the case was filed by Novartis in India in 1998, after India had agreed to enter the World Trade Organization and to abide by worldwide intellectual property
Novartis hopeful for novel heart drug, despite 'modest' benefit [SEP] Dan Lyons // pharmaceutical company Novartis Pharma AG. According to an RSPCA report, the research involved transplanting pigs' hearts, kidneys, pancreatic islets or bone into wild-caught baboons or cynomolgous macaques, or transplanting the macaques' hearts into the baboons. Material from the "Diaries" appeared in September 2000 in the "Daily Express" in the UK before Imutran obtained an injunction preventing further publication. Novartis closed Imutran shortly afterwards, but said it was unrelated to the leaks. The "Express" journalists won a Genesis Award for the story. A key point of Lyons' report was that the animals' suffering was severe, but most of the procedures had
Novartis hopeful for novel heart drug, despite 'modest' benefit [SEP] Eric Rose // severe left ventricular dysfunction and other medical problems including pulmonary hypertension, peripheral vascular disease and renal disease. 68 people received a LVAD, Thoratec’s HeartMate XVE LVAD, and 61 received drug treatment. The results surprised many medical professionals. LVAD patients lived significantly longer than those on medical treatment. Rose co-founded several biotechnology companies including Nephros, which is concerned with heart and kidney related medical devices, and between 1997 and 2009, has served at various points, as its chairman, president, chief executive and director. Between 2007 and 2016, he was chief executive of the anti-viral developer Siga Technologies, having been an executive
Novartis hopeful for novel heart drug, despite 'modest' benefit [SEP] Novartis v. Union of India & Others // that part of Indian patent law was created in 2005, years after Novartis' initial filing. Later, during the course of prosecution, appeals, and the litigation that ensued in India, Novartis undertook studies to compare the properties of the beta crystalline form of imatinib mesylate (described in its new patent application), with the freebase form of imatinib (described in the older patent), and submitted them in affidavits. The studies showed that the beta crystalline form of the drug had increased bioavailability in rats. A United States patent was granted in 2005. In 2001 the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA)
Novartis hopeful for novel heart drug, despite 'modest' benefit [SEP] Nesiritide // M.D., Karen M. Whalen, B.S., Roy Guharoy, Pharm.D., William Darko, Pharm.D. Nesiritide Nesiritide (Natrecor) is the recombinant form of the 32 amino acid human B-type natriuretic peptide, which is normally produced by the ventricular myocardium. Nesiritide works to facilitate cardiovascular fluid homeostasis through counterregulation of the renin–angiotensin–aldosterone system, stimulating cyclic guanosine monophosphate, leading to smooth muscle cell relaxation. Nesiritide was believed initially to be beneficial for acute decompensated congestive heart failure. It received approval from the United States' Food and Drug Administration for this purpose in 2001 after initial non-approval. In July 2011 the results of the largest study so
People can fly with dogs, pot-bellied pigs, turkeys, monkeys, and miniature horses if they claim that their pets are emotional support animals. [SEP] Emotional support animal // aircraft to permit a person with a disability to travel with a prescribed emotional support animal, so long as they have appropriate documentation and the animal is not a danger to others and does not interfere with others (through unwanted attention, barking, inappropriate toileting, etc.). "Unusual" animals, including all snakes and other reptiles, can legally be refused. In regards to airline policies affecting persons flying with animals, most airlines charge fees and require the animal to be in a cage that can fit under the seat; if a caged animal cannot be placed under the seat, the animal flies with
People can fly with dogs, pot-bellied pigs, turkeys, monkeys, and miniature horses if they claim that their pets are emotional support animals. [SEP] Emotional support animal // pit bulls and similar breeds of dogs from being accepted as emotional support animals, after a pit bull dog traveling as an emotional support animal bit two employees. Emotional support animals are allowed to travel on airplanes without muzzles or other devices that would keep them from biting staff or passengers. Another animal people get for emotional support are cats. Cats can understand when their owner has ailments such as depression or anxiety. It all depends on the owner if they want to have a special relationship with their cat. If they do they will get the emotional support that
People can fly with dogs, pot-bellied pigs, turkeys, monkeys, and miniature horses if they claim that their pets are emotional support animals. [SEP] Emotional support animal // animals has increased the number of animals in public places where animals are normally not allowed. Multiple dangerous incidents reported in the media, such as a large emotional support dog mauling another passenger on a flight, have led to a backlash against people with disabilities, including people with well-trained service dogs. Although the concept is popular and many owners attribute improvements to their animals, there is no solid scientific evidence that untrained emotional support dogs provide any significant benefit to people with mental or emotional disabilities. Interacting with an animal may reduce perceived emotional distress for some people, but the
People can fly with dogs, pot-bellied pigs, turkeys, monkeys, and miniature horses if they claim that their pets are emotional support animals. [SEP] Emotional support animal // the luggage. With emotional assistance animals, on the other hand, they are not required to be caged, nor are people charged for flying with an emotional support animal. In 2017, a quarter million passengers brought emotional support animals with them on just Delta Air Lines. With the exceptions provided to emotional support animals, many people who do not have a mental disability have tried to bring their animals on a plane and pass them off as emotional support animals. Airlines, like Southwest and JetBlue, however, typically have policies that passengers flying with emotional support animals must follow. While an airline
People can fly with dogs, pot-bellied pigs, turkeys, monkeys, and miniature horses if they claim that their pets are emotional support animals. [SEP] Emotional support animal // scientific research is limited, of low scientific quality, and what little research exists suggests that the benefit, if any, is smaller than its proponents hoped. A small number of studies have found that emotional support animals increased their owners' distress. There is no research at all on unusual animals, such as hamsters. Requests for letters to obtain exemption from airline baggage fees or no-pet housing rules can also damage the owner's therapeutic relationship with the psychologist or other mental healthcare provider, regardless of whether the request is approved or denied. Ethically, providers of psychotherapy may choose to recommend an emotional
People can fly with dogs, pot-bellied pigs, turkeys, monkeys, and miniature horses if they claim that their pets are emotional support animals. [SEP] Emotional support animal // animal, non-fraudulently, the emotional support animal's presence must provide a significant benefit, that makes the difference between the person functioning adequately and not. Some websites scam people by printing fake certificates that claim an animal is an emotional support animal, but which have no legal value. These website have encouraged even people who are not disabled to pay a fee to buy an official-looking piece of paper, so that they can get approval to have a family pet in no-pets housing, or to get free air travel for their pet on US airlines. Since a 2003 rule change by the
People can fly with dogs, pot-bellied pigs, turkeys, monkeys, and miniature horses if they claim that their pets are emotional support animals. [SEP] Emotional support animal // passengers with allergies to those animals. (It does not mention whether emotional support animals should be treated like trained service animals or like household pets in such an instance.) Passengers who are allergic to dogs, cats, or other animals are usually seated in a different part of the airplane, and may be denied boarding, removed from flights, moved to other flights, or required to provide a letter from a licensed physician, dated with the last 10 days, saying that even if they are exposed to animal dander, they will not die before the flight ends. The required documentation for US-based
People can fly with dogs, pot-bellied pigs, turkeys, monkeys, and miniature horses if they claim that their pets are emotional support animals. [SEP] Emotional support animal // properly vaccinated, in good health, and has been trained to behave well in public. While there do not seem to be any cases dealing with the issue of multiple emotional support animals, the basic requirements for this accommodation would be the same. Thus, if a disabled person claimed to need multiple emotional support animals, he or she would need documentation supporting this claim from his or her psychologist or other licensed healthcare professional. The practitioner would need to provide documentation that each support animal alleviated some symptom of the disability. As of 2018, Delta airlines limits free travel for emotional
People can fly with dogs, pot-bellied pigs, turkeys, monkeys, and miniature horses if they claim that their pets are emotional support animals. [SEP] Emotional support animal // situations. To be afforded protection under United States federal law, the owners of emotional support animals must meet the federal definition of disability and must have a letter from their healthcare providers stating that they are being treated for a disabling condition and that their emotional support animals improve or benefit some component of the disability. Small dogs are the most common type of emotional support animal. In terms of obtaining exemptions from housing and transportation laws, emotional support animals must be a "usual" type, which excludes snakes and other reptiles, ferrets, rodents, and spiders. In 2018, Delta Airlines banned
People can fly with dogs, pot-bellied pigs, turkeys, monkeys, and miniature horses if they claim that their pets are emotional support animals. [SEP] Emotional support animal // support animals to one animal per ticketed passenger. The main controversies are the behavior of some animals, harms to other people, the problem of widespread fraud, and the open scientific question about whether emotional support animals provide significant benefit. An emotional support animal may cause problems that a trained assistance dog may not. For instance, due to the lack of training, an emotional support animal may bark at and smell other people, whereas service dogs are trained not to do so. People with a different type of invisible disability – allergy to animal dander – have suffered from allergic attacks
Gabon president fires VP, forests minister over hardwood scandal. [SEP] Alexandré Barro Chambrier // the Minister of Forest Economy, Water, Fisheries and Aquaculture, in charge of Water and Fisheries ( 2008–2009), Minister Delegate to the Minister of Development, Public Performance, Prospective and Statistics (2009). Since 14 January 2011 – February 2012, he served as the Minister of Mines, Petroleum and Hydrocarbons. He currently a member of the national parliament (4th District of Libreville) and a member of the Pan African Parliament (Midrand South Africa) The Economy of Gabon: Analysis, adjustment and adaptation policies. From Hugues Alexandre Barro Chambrier. Alexandré Barro Chambrier Alexandré Barro Chambrier (born 25 August 1958) is a Gabonese politician and MP
Gabon president fires VP, forests minister over hardwood scandal. [SEP] National Woodcutters' Rally – Rally for Gabon // National Woodcutters' Rally – Rally for Gabon The National Woodcutters Rally–Rally for Gabon (, RNB–RPG) is a political party in Gabon. The party was established in 1990 as Movement for National Rectification–Woodcutters ("Mouvement de Redressement National–Bûcherons", MORENA–Bûcherons), a breakaway from the Movement for National Rectification. In the 1990 parliamentary elections it won 20 of the 120 seats in the National Assembly, becoming the largest opposition party. In February 1991 it was renamed "National Woodcutters Rally" (RNB). The RNB nominated Paul Mba Abessole as its candidate for the 1993 presidential elections; He finished second with 26.5% of the vote. Although it
Gabon president fires VP, forests minister over hardwood scandal. [SEP] Paul Mba Abessole // Paul Mba Abessole Paul Mba Abessole (born October 9, 1939) is a Gabonese politician who heads the National Woodcutters' Rally – Rally for Gabon ("Rassemblement national des Bûcherons - Rassemblement pour le Gabon", RNB-RPG) and was a leading opponent of President Omar Bongo during the 1990s. He stood as a presidential candidate twice during the 1990s and also served as Mayor of Libreville, the capital. From 2002 to 2009 he served in the government of Gabon, holding the rank of Deputy Prime Minister for most of that period. Mba Abessole was born at Ngnung-Ako, located in northern Gabon, in 1939.
Gabon president fires VP, forests minister over hardwood scandal. [SEP] Pierre-André Kombila // Pierre-André Kombila Pierre-André Kombila Koumba (born 8 May 1941) is a Gabonese politician, professor, and medical doctor. He was the First Secretary of the National Rally of Woodcutters (RNB), Gabon's main opposition party, from 1990 to 1998; he then led a split from the RNB, establishing the more radical National Rally of Woodcutters - Democrats (RNB-D) in 1998. He was nominated as the RNB-D's candidate for the 1998 presidential election, but received only a small share of the vote. Later, he abandoned his opposition to President Omar Bongo and joined the government, serving as Minister of Technical and Vocational Education
Gabon president fires VP, forests minister over hardwood scandal. [SEP] Louis-Gaston Mayila // he was appointed as Director of the Cabinet of the President of the Republic in 1975. While retaining that post, he obtained the rank of Minister in 1976 and was assigned responsibility for posts and telecommunications; he was also placed in charge of relations with the National Timber Company of Gabon ("Société Nationale des Bois du Gabon", SNBG). He held the position of Minister of Postal Services, Reform and Semi-Public Firms, Tourism, and National Parks until being dismissed from the government on 4 February 1978. Mayila was Secretary-General of the Government with the rank of Minister in 1980; subsequently he
Gabon president fires VP, forests minister over hardwood scandal. [SEP] Rigobert Ngouolali // 1969. Ngouolali then worked as Director of Water and Forests at the Ministry of Agriculture, Water, and Forests from 1969 to 1976. Subsequently he was Congo-Brazzaville's Representative to the African Timber Organization, based in Libreville, from 1976 to 1990. Ngouolali was the African Timber Organization's Director of Industrialization from 1976 to 1981 and its Deputy Secretary-General from 1981 to 1990. He then worked as Deputy Director-General of the Industrial Afforestation Unit of Congo from 1990 to 1991. Ngouolali participated in the February–June 1991 National Conference, which initiated a political transition leading to multiparty elections. After the National Conference, he helped
Gabon president fires VP, forests minister over hardwood scandal. [SEP] 2016 Gabonese presidential election // The Parliament building was set on fire later in the day. The following day, Ping claimed that the presidential guard had bombed his party's headquarters, killing two people. By 2 September at least five people had been killed in the capital and 1,000 more has been arrested. The United Nations expressed "deep concern" about the violence. Along with France and the United States, it called for de-escalation on both sides of the dispute and pressed for more transparent detail on the vote outcome. Although he had previously criticized the Constitutional Court for allegedly favoring the government, Ping appealed the results
Gabon president fires VP, forests minister over hardwood scandal. [SEP] Marc Ona // a lack of financing. In March 2013, Ona Essangui was sentenced to a six-month suspended prison sentence and an approximately $10,000 USD fine for defamation of Liban Soleman, senior advisor to President Ali Bongo Ondimba. Marc Ona Marc Ona Essangui is founder of the environmental NGO Brainforest and president of Environment Gabon, a network of NGOs. Marc Ona Essangui led efforts to expose agreements behind a Chinese mining project in Gabon, a country in West Central Africa, that threatened equatorial rainforest ecosystems. According to Ona Essangui, the proposed Belinga development, a $3.5 billion project, was secretly negotiated. Local communities were
Gabon president fires VP, forests minister over hardwood scandal. [SEP] Jean Ping // true election results are acknowledged. During his July 2017 European tour, the protest movement gave him a warm welcome. Jean Ping Jean Ping (born 24 November 1942 in Omboué, Gabon) is a Gabonese diplomat and politician. He served as the Minister of State and Minister of Foreign Affairs, Cooperation and Francophonie of the Gabonese Republic from 1999 to 2008, and was President of the United Nations General Assembly from 2004 to 2005 and Chairperson of the Commission of the African Union from 2008 to 2012. He stood for the 2016 Gabonese presidential election against the outgoing president Ali Bongo. Jean
Gabon president fires VP, forests minister over hardwood scandal. [SEP] Marc Ona // Marc Ona Marc Ona Essangui is founder of the environmental NGO Brainforest and president of Environment Gabon, a network of NGOs. Marc Ona Essangui led efforts to expose agreements behind a Chinese mining project in Gabon, a country in West Central Africa, that threatened equatorial rainforest ecosystems. According to Ona Essangui, the proposed Belinga development, a $3.5 billion project, was secretly negotiated. Local communities were not consulted and are unaware of the effect that the project would have on their environment. Ona won the 2009 Africa Goldman Environmental Prize for his work. The project is currently on hold due to
Prince Harry joins Elton John to launch HIV campaign targeting men. [SEP] Prince Harry, Duke of Sussex // The Prince was appointed the president of the Queen's Commonwealth Trust, which focuses on projects involving children and welfare of prisoners in April. Also in April 2018, Harry was selected as one of the 100 Most Influential People in the World by "Time" magazine. In July 2018, the Elton John AIDS Foundation announced that the Duke of Sussex and British singer Elton John were about to launch a global coalition called MenStar that would focus "on treating HIV infections in men". Harry enjoys playing many sports, including competitive polo, skiing, and motocross. He is a supporter of Arsenal Football Club.
Prince Harry joins Elton John to launch HIV campaign targeting men. [SEP] Prince Harry, Duke of Sussex // 2016. He stayed until the end of March 2016 to help rebuild a secondary school with Team Rubicon UK, and visited a Hydropower Project in Central Nepal. To raise awareness for HIV testing, Harry took a test live on the royal family Facebook page on 14 July 2016. He later attended the 21st International AIDS Conference in Durban, South Africa, on 21 July 2016. On World Aids Day, Harry and Rihanna helped publicise HIV testing by taking the test themselves. On 27 December 2017, Harry was officially appointed the new president of African Parks, a conservation NGO. He previously spent
Prince Harry joins Elton John to launch HIV campaign targeting men. [SEP] Debbie Harry // 2011 interview, Harry said that "After witnessing Elton John and his tireless efforts against HIV/AIDS", she had been inspired to put philanthropy as her top priority. She said, "These things are important to my life now. I have the privilege of being able to get involved, so I do. I applaud people like Elton John, who have used their position to do so much good." Some of Harry's preferred charities include those devoted to fighting cancer and endometriosis. In 2014, Harry revealed that she is bisexual. Debbie Harry Deborah Ann Harry (born Angela Trimble; July 1, 1945) is an American
Prince Harry joins Elton John to launch HIV campaign targeting men. [SEP] Elton John AIDS Foundation // Elton John AIDS Foundation The Elton John AIDS Foundation (EJAF) is a nonprofit organization, established by rock musician Sir Elton John in 1992 in the United States and 1993 in the United Kingdom to support innovative HIV prevention, education programs, direct care and support services to people living with HIV. It has raised over $400 million to support HIV related programs in fifty-five countries. The organization supports its work through proceeds from special events, cause-related marketing projects, and voluntary contributions from individuals, corporations and foundations. The foundation's U.S. and U.K. branches work separately. Each focuses on different regions of the
Prince Harry joins Elton John to launch HIV campaign targeting men. [SEP] Prince Harry, Duke of Sussex // aid children orphaned by HIV/AIDS. He has granted his patronage to organisations including WellChild, Dolen Cymru, and MapAction. Sport has been a way that Harry has helped charities and other organisations. This has included training as a Rugby Development Officer for the Rugby Football Union in 2004 and coaching students in schools to encourage them to learn the sport. Like his brother and father, he has participated in polo matches to raise money for charitable causes. On 6 January 2009, the Queen granted Harry and William their own royal household. Previously, William and Harry's affairs had been handled by their
Prince Harry joins Elton John to launch HIV campaign targeting men. [SEP] Elton John AIDS Foundation // multiple times to support AIDS-related legislation, including the Ryan White bill for AIDS funding in 1986. in The two celebrities supported each other's organizations often; Taylor spoke at various EJAF events, and John performed at many ETAF fundraisers, starting from the very first ETAF benefit concert in Madison Square Garden on October 11, 1992. The two foundations have also partnered throughout their history to provide bilaterally funded grants to projects that fall within both of their missions. In 2016, EJAF partnered with the Elizabeth Taylor AIDS Foundation (ETAF) in an initiative to combat AIDS in the Southern United States. They
Prince Harry joins Elton John to launch HIV campaign targeting men. [SEP] Elton John AIDS Foundation // losing two friends to AIDS in the span of a year. One was Ryan White, a young man who was infected with HIV by a blood transfusion and who died in 1990. White's personable and compassionate persona helped to reduce stigmatizing attitudes towards people living with HIV, an effort that EJAF continues. John also lost his friend Freddie Mercury, a fellow musician (the lead singer of the rock band Queen), who died of AIDS-related bronchial pneumonia in 1991. John paid tribute to both of them in concert–– he performed at the Freddie Mercury Tribute: Concert for AIDS Awareness in 1992
Prince Harry joins Elton John to launch HIV campaign targeting men. [SEP] Diana, Princess of Wales // stigma attached to people living with HIV/AIDS", Mandela said. In 2009, a panel including Sir Ian McKellen and Alan Hollinghurst chose Diana's portrait to be shown in the Gay Icons exhibition at the National Portrait Gallery, London. In October 2017, the "Attitude" magazine honoured Diana with its Legacy Award for her HIV/AIDS work. Prince Harry accepted the award on behalf of his mother. Diana was the patron of HALO Trust, an organisation that removes debris—particularly landmines—left behind by war. In January 1997, pictures of Diana touring an Angolan minefield in a ballistic helmet and flak jacket were seen worldwide. During
Prince Harry joins Elton John to launch HIV campaign targeting men. [SEP] James Prince // HIV/AIDS prevention and testing with the launching of Strapped, in coordination with a string of initiatives and events set up to address the issue of AIDS in the black community. "Talking about something is one thing, but having something to offer is another," J. Prince said. "We promote abstinence first for those that are strong enough not to have sex. I wasn't one of those. And we can't realistically just tell them not to have sex, so we are telling them to 'strap up.'" On June 7, 2010, J Prince was honored alongside Master P, Jermaine Dupri, Timbaland, and Slick
Prince Harry joins Elton John to launch HIV campaign targeting men. [SEP] Prince William, Duke of Cambridge // first British royal to visit the area officially since the expiry of the British Mandate. He visited Tel Aviv, meeting with mayor Ron Huldai and touring the beach area and city centre; Jerusalem, meeting with President Reuven Rivlin and Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu; and Ramallah, meeting with Palestinian president Mahmoud Abbas. William became aware of HIV/AIDS in the mid-1990s when he accompanied his mother and brother on visits to shelters and clinics for sufferers. In January 2005, William and his brother volunteered at a British Red Cross aid distribution centre to pack emergency supplies for countries affected by the 2004
Suicide kills one person every 40 seconds, says WHO. [SEP] World Suicide Prevention Day // under-reporting and misclassification are greater problems for suicide than for most other causes of death." An estimated one million people per year die by suicide or about one person in 10,000 (1.4% of all deaths), or "a death every 40 seconds or about 3,000 every day". As of 2004 the number of people who die by suicide is expected to reach 1.5 million per year by 2020. On average, three male suicides are reported for every female one, consistently across different age groups and in almost every country in the world. "Conversely, rates of suicide attempts tend to be 2-3
Suicide kills one person every 40 seconds, says WHO. [SEP] World Suicide Prevention Day // times higher in women than in men, although the gender gap has narrowed in recent years." More people die from suicide than from murder and war; it is the 13th leading cause of death worldwide. According to WHO there are twenty people who have a suicide attempt for every one that is fatal, at a rate approximately one every three seconds. Suicide is the "most common cause of death for people aged 15 – 24." According to WHO, suicide accounts for nearly half of all violent deaths in the world. Brian Mishara, IASP president, noted that, "more people kill themselves
Suicide kills one person every 40 seconds, says WHO. [SEP] Epidemiology of suicide // their own lives every year, more than those murdered or killed in war. WHO figures show a suicide takes place somewhere in the world roughly every 40 seconds. According to the National Institute of Mental Health, suicide contagion is a serious problem, especially for young people. Suicide can be facilitated in vulnerable teens by exposure to real or fictional accounts of suicide, including media coverage of suicide, such as intensive reporting of the suicide of a celebrity or idol. Suicide rates are highest in Europe's Baltic states, where around 40 people per 100,000 die by suicide each year. The lowest
Suicide kills one person every 40 seconds, says WHO. [SEP] Suicide attack // suicide attacks occurred in over 40 countries, killing over 45,000 people. During this time the global rate of such attacks grew from an average of three a year in the 1980s, to about one a month in the 1990s, to almost one a week from 2001 to 2003, to approximately one a day from 2003 to 2015. Suicide attacks tend to be more deadly and destructive than other terror attacks because they give their perpetrators the ability to conceal weapons, make last-minute adjustments, and because they dispense with the need for remote or delayed detonation, escape plans or rescue teams.
Suicide kills one person every 40 seconds, says WHO. [SEP] United States military veteran suicide // combat, 176. The Army suffered 52% of the suicides from all branches. In 2013, the VA released a study that covered suicides from 1999 to 2010, which showed that roughly 22 veterans were dying by suicide per day, or one every 65 minutes. Some sources suggest that this rate may be undercounting suicides. A recent analysis found a suicide rate among veterans of about 30 per 100,000 population per year, compared with the civilian rate of 14 per 100,000. However, the comparison was not adjusted for age and sex. The total number of suicides differs by age group; 31% of
Suicide kills one person every 40 seconds, says WHO. [SEP] Murder–suicide // later followed by suicide often make headline news; national statistics indicate 5% of all homicides are followed by suicide. The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Centers for Disease Control reports that an estimated 1 million adults reported attempting suicide in 2011, and there were over 38,000 completed suicides in the same period. The estimate of 624 murder-suicide events per year, indicates that murders are associated with suicidal events (attempts and completions) only about 0.06% of the time. In 18th-century Denmark, people wishing to commit suicide would sometimes commit murder in order to receive the death penalty. They believed
Suicide kills one person every 40 seconds, says WHO. [SEP] World Suicide Prevention Day // than die in all wars, terrorist acts and interpersonal violence combined." As of 2008, the WHO refers the widest number of suicides occur in the age group 15 - 29, while the lowest in the 80+ although representing as well the one with the highest rate (per 100,000) of all age groups, with 27.8 suicides and 60.1 for females and males respectively. In 2015 the reported global age-standardized rate is 10.7 per 100,000. Social norms play a significant role in the development of suicidal behaviors. Late 19th century's sociological studies recorded first ever observations on suicide: with statistics of the
Suicide kills one person every 40 seconds, says WHO. [SEP] National Suicide Prevention Week // "another diagnosable mental illness or substance abuse disorder." According to Major David Reynolds, chief of Clinical Health Psychology at Landstuhl Regional Medical Center, "The vast majority of people don't commit suicide because they want to kill themselves, but as a way to end the torment of not being able to cope with their problem." Suicide rates for young adults aged 15–24 rose 136 percent from 1960 to 1980. Suicide remains the third leading cause of death among people between the ages of 12–24. A 2009 U.S. Army report indicates military veterans have double the suicide rate of non-veterans, and more
Suicide kills one person every 40 seconds, says WHO. [SEP] Suicidology // Suicidology Suicidology is the scientific study of suicidal behaviour, the causes of suicidalness and suicide prevention. There are many different fields and disciplines involved with suicidology, the two primary ones being psychology and sociology. Every year, about one million people die by suicide, which is a mortality rate of sixteen per 100,000 or one death every forty seconds. Suicide is largely preventable with the right actions, knowledge about suicide, and a change in society's view of suicide to make it more acceptable to talk about suicide. Most suicidologists think about the history of suicide in terms of courts, church, press,
Suicide kills one person every 40 seconds, says WHO. [SEP] RUOK? Day // departments, corporate leaders, teachers, universities, students and community groups. Its activities also align with the Australian Government's LIFE Framework. In a 12-month period, it is estimated that 65,000 Australians make a suicide attempt, with an average of 2,320 people dying by suicide every year. In fact, around 45 per cent of Australians will experience mental illness in their lifetime, while 20 per cent are affected every year. Gavin Larkin experienced the suicide of his father in 1995 resulting in the eventual co-creation with Janina Nearn of ""R U OK?"" in 2009. The R U OK? tagline was brought about from
Photographs show a boy having his arm crushed under a truck as a punishment for stealing bread. [SEP] Boston desegregation busing crisis // as it appears in the photo, and he narrowly missed. A photograph of the attack on Landsmark, "The Soiling of Old Glory" taken by Stanley Forman for the "Boston Herald American", won the Pulitzer Prize for Spot News Photography (now the Pulitzer Prize for Breaking News Photography) in 1977. In a retaliatory incident about two weeks later, black teenagers in Roxbury threw rocks at auto mechanic Richard Poleet's car and caused him to crash. The youths dragged him out and crushed his skull with nearby paving stones. When police arrived, the man was surrounded by a crowd of 100 chanting
Photographs show a boy having his arm crushed under a truck as a punishment for stealing bread. [SEP] Bangarang // YouTube on February 16, 2012. It depicts a group of three young boys robbing an ice-cream truck in an elaborate heist. During the robbery, the ringleader of the boys accidentally causes the ice-cream truck driver to lose his hand by forcefully slamming a door onto his wrist. He feels obvious guilt for this, and when his gang have grown up to adulthood, they perform a similarly elaborate heist on a van delivering four cases of cash. They succeed in stealing the cash, and the video concludes with the gang leader leaving one of the cases with the ice-cream man. The
Photographs show a boy having his arm crushed under a truck as a punishment for stealing bread. [SEP] Warsaw Ghetto boy // own experiences and the memory of a lost childhood friend. In these works, the boy's extended arms are often depicted with a crucifixion theme or with the boy seen as a part of an imagined monument. Both NARA and IPN describe the image as in the public domain. However in the 1990s Corbis Corporation acquired the photograph from Bettmann Archive and licenced three versions of it, charging commercial rates for its usage. , Getty Images, which acquired Corbis license rights in 2016, continues to offer it for sale, providing a copy of it with a copyright claim watermark as a
Photographs show a boy having his arm crushed under a truck as a punishment for stealing bread. [SEP] Charles W. Howard // curb, and overturning the vehicle. The young man let out a wail as he was knocked out of the way by the truck. Howard later remarked, "I knew if he could shout he was alive and that was more than I expected." Frightened half-to-death, he climbed out of the truck to check on the boy, who was frightened but unharmed. Bystanders quickly came to assist Howard, but when he directed them to check on the child, the boy was nowhere to be found. One of the truck wheels was crushed and the bystanders assisted him in turning the truck upright.
Photographs show a boy having his arm crushed under a truck as a punishment for stealing bread. [SEP] Bruised Orange // church steps before Mass. Because they’d sue the church if people fell and broke their legs. So I was going down there to get the snow and ice off. I went over to the train tracks. A kid who had also been an altar boy at the Catholic Church, I found out later, was walking down the train tracks. And evidently the commuter train came up behind him. They were taking him away in bushel baskets, there was nothing left of him. There were a bunch of mothers standing around, trying to figure out – cause it was Sunday morning
Photographs show a boy having his arm crushed under a truck as a punishment for stealing bread. [SEP] Stones in Water // The boys are taken to a labor camp, where they work on an airstrip. They are fed bread and sausage and cheese, and if they are the first to find the body they strip dead boys for warmer clothing. One boy finds out Enzo is Jewish and blackmails Enzo for more food. They continue to live like this until Enzo is beaten to death over a pair of German boots and Roberto decides to escape the camp to safety. He finds an Italian soldier and together they ride down a river to safety. Stones In Water Stones in Water Stones
Photographs show a boy having his arm crushed under a truck as a punishment for stealing bread. [SEP] All Hell Broke Loose // faced, chanted along. But others realized that Arabs had been injured too, and a rare few worked even harder to promote understanding and peace between the divided people. The film shares the devastating effects of having survived a terrorist attack. One little boy who survived the attack now has burn scars all over his back and arms; he was robbed of his naiveté and now stared at his playmates like a skeptical old man. He says he thinks about death now, which is something he'd never thought about before. Despite the documentary's grim subject matter, it does leave room to
Photographs show a boy having his arm crushed under a truck as a punishment for stealing bread. [SEP] Boy in the Box (Philadelphia) // in the summer of 1954. Subsequently, the boy was subjected to extreme physical and sexual abuse for two and a half years. One evening at dinner, the boy vomited up his meal of baked beans and was given a severe beating, with his head slammed against the floor until he was semiconscious. He was then given a bath, during which he died. These details matched information known only to the police, as the coroner had found that the boy's stomach contained the remains of baked beans and that his fingers were water-wrinkled. "M"'s mother then cut the boy's distinctive long
Photographs show a boy having his arm crushed under a truck as a punishment for stealing bread. [SEP] Bible Missionary Church // of physical and emotional abuse. Allegations included banging heads together and kicking the children for sleeping at inappropriate times. One case sent a 9-year-old boy to Lake Cumberland Regional Medical Center, where he was treated for bruises on his shoulder, arm, back, buttocks and leg, according to the court document. Corporal punishment was being used and sometimes administered by other students rather than staffers. 30 students were bused from the academy to a crisis center in Louisville. All alleged charges were dropped after the trial jury ruled to acquit the accused. Another judge ruled against the state agency that brought
Photographs show a boy having his arm crushed under a truck as a punishment for stealing bread. [SEP] Ismail Shammout // refugee experience of the Palestinians. In the foreground, it depicts a life-size image of an elderly man dressed in rags carrying a walking stick in his left hand while his right hand grasps the wrist of a crying child. A sleeping toddler on his shoulder is resting his cheek upon the old man's head. Just behind them is a third child crying and walking alone. In the background there is a skyline of an Arab town with a minaret, while in the middle ground there is a withered tree. From 1997 to 2000, he and al Akhal painted a collection
Hospitals plan for 'COVID cabanas,' conference rooms to house patients. [SEP] British Columbia Children's Hospital // clinic rooms available on site for patients and staff, and houses 24 pediatric specialty medical and surgical clinics. The architects state that the building "is nearly 40% more efficient than the National Energy Code called for when it was built. Sustainable design features include orientation toward solar exposure, maximization of natural ventilation and natural daylight, concourse ventilation, insulated north walls, reduction in electrical power consumption through daylighting, task lighting, and light and occupancy sensors." The project also involved the nearby B.C. Women's Hospital & Health Centre's new Maternity and Ambulatory Program Clinics, Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, and the Emergency renovation
Hospitals plan for 'COVID cabanas,' conference rooms to house patients. [SEP] Vidant Medical Center // theme will be aquatic will waves, bubbles and fishes. The first floor will include a Ronald McDonald suite for patients families, exam rooms, nine-bed Medical/Day unit for outpatient services and a theater. Also included will be a pediatric radiology department that will house ultrasound imaging, radiology, fluoroscopy and other interventions, pediatric observation unit and a family resource center. The lobby will have testing center, a café, gift shop and breastfeeding support rooms. A play/therapy yard will include swings, basketball court, climbing structures and picnic tables. The second floor will have a 21 private bed convalescent newborn unit and a six-bed
Hospitals plan for 'COVID cabanas,' conference rooms to house patients. [SEP] Kirkbride Plan // ward, which would contain its own "comfortably furnished" parlor, bathroom, clothes room, and infirmary, as well as a speaking tube and dumbwaiter to allow open communication and movement of materials between floors. The furthest wings from the center complex of the building were reserved for the "most excitable," or most physically dangerous and volatile patients. Patient rooms were suggested to be spacious, with ceilings "at least high," but only large enough to room a single person. The center complexes of the Kirkbride Plan buildings were designed to house administration, kitchens, public and reception areas, and apartments for the superintendent's family.
Hospitals plan for 'COVID cabanas,' conference rooms to house patients. [SEP] Vidant Medical Center // Kids Immunosuppressed Special Unit with a controlled environment for children with cancer, blood disorders, sickle cell disease, kidney disorders and other illnesses that compromise the immune system. Along with the new addition to the Children's Hospital, Vidant Medical Center is designing a pediatric emergency department. It will be a area near the existing emergency department. It will include 16 general pediatric emergency rooms, a dedicated resuscitation room, lobby area, ambulance entry and staff/support space. The $8 million project was completed in April 2012. On May 17, 2011, East Carolina University alumnus, James Maynard, founder of Golden Corral, and his wife
Hospitals plan for 'COVID cabanas,' conference rooms to house patients. [SEP] Mobile hospital // These trailers have several doors to connect to other units or corridors via a special connector. The special connector can be a tent, inflatable structure, or open gangway connection. For efficient use of space; technical rooms, receptionist desk, cabinets, and closets can be installed. Each hospital, apart from the medical departments, needs electrical and mechanical facilities, repair and maintenance units, safety and health section, administrative offices, communication servicing, equipment management, toilets, bathrooms, laundries, kitchens, food supply and distribution, staff and doctors dormitories, production, and distribution. Electrical energy, water purification and storage units, warehouses, merge command rooms, and other services This
Hospitals plan for 'COVID cabanas,' conference rooms to house patients. [SEP] Jacobs Medical Center // Women and Infants includes eight labor rooms, 32 postpartum rooms, three operating suites for cesarean sections and a three-room midwife center. It occupies the eighth, ninth, and tenth floors of the hospital and is named for a $12 million gift from Evelyn and Ernest Rady, whose names are also on the UC San Diego School of Management and San Diego's Children's Hospital. The pavilion includes a Level III Neonatal Intensive Care Unit to monitor and care for severely premature or ill infants. Pregnant women and new mothers also have access to non-invasive fetal genetic testing, wireless fetal heart rate monitoring
Hospitals plan for 'COVID cabanas,' conference rooms to house patients. [SEP] University of Virginia Health System // are often used. The Battle Building, named for Barry and Bill Battle, was dedicated in 2014 and houses pediatric patient care and outpatient surgery. At over 200,000 sq ft and 7 floors, there are 12 operating rooms in this building and a clinical trials wing. The Battle Building has a LEED Gold rating. The Emily Couric Clinical Cancer Center opened in 2011 across from the main hospital. Medical and nursing students are educated in the Claude Moore Nursing Education Building, built in 2008, and the Claude Moore Medical Education Building, opened in 2010. Several research buildings are on the grounds
Hospitals plan for 'COVID cabanas,' conference rooms to house patients. [SEP] Patient hotel // is reported to be considering the possibilities of using them to ease demand on hospital beds, including provision for the 30,000 patients each year who are kept in hospital despite being well enough to be discharged. University College London Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust uses the Cotton Rooms Boutique Hotel, which is funded by the UCLH charity to house some patients, as even in central London they are less than half the cost of a hospital bed. The Ronald McDonald House Charities provide 322 Ronald McDonald Houses in 57 countries which act as a place to stay for families with hospitalized
Hospitals plan for 'COVID cabanas,' conference rooms to house patients. [SEP] Jacobs Medical Center // hospital in San Diego. The pavilion occupies the fourth, fifth, and sixth floors of Jacobs Medical Center and is named for a $7.5 million gift from Pauline Foster. Patients will have access to over 100 cancer subspecialists working at Moores Cancer Center. The sixth floor of the hospital, jointly operated with Sharp HealthCare, is the only open floor in California with full-unit air filtration, allowing blood and marrow transplant patients and those undergoing chemotherapy to socialize and roam throughout the floor. Procedures such as laser ablation of brain tumors are handled downstairs in the Vassiliadis Pavilion. The Rady Pavilion for
Hospitals plan for 'COVID cabanas,' conference rooms to house patients. [SEP] Ospital Pacifica de Juan and Juana Angara // 9 x 9 meter (29.5 x 29.5 feet) grid which will accommodate a 3 x 3 meter (9.8 x 9.8 feet) room module. An integrated spine area situated in the central area of the facility was designed for efficient movement of staff and supplies between the general hospital and trauma center areas. A portico also forms part of the hospital perimeter. The hospital has four main zones, each with a courtyard garden for natural lighting. The main hospital building with two floors will be high while the separate chapel structure will stand . The design of the hospital as a
Castration Drug Used as Autism Therapy [SEP] Mark Geier // the drug Lupron, which acts as chemical castration. Mark Geier has called Lupron "the miracle drug" and the Geiers have marketed the protocol across the U.S. The Geiers filed three U.S. patent applications on the use of Lupron in combination with chelation therapy as a treatment protocol for autism based on the hypothesis that "testosterone mercury" along with low levels of glutathione blocks the conversion of DHEA to DHEA-S and therefore raises androgens which in turn further lower glutathione levels, ultimately providing a connection between autism, mercury exposure, and hyperandrogenicity, specifically precocious puberty. According to expert pediatric endocrinologists, the Lupron
Castration Drug Used as Autism Therapy [SEP] Pedophilia // fewer side-effects, are also used to reduce libido, as are selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors. The evidence for these alternatives is more limited and mostly based on open trials and case studies. All of these treatments, commonly referred to as "chemical castration", are often used in conjunction with cognitive behavioral therapy. According to the Association for the Treatment of Sexual Abusers, when treating child molesters, "anti-androgen treatment should be coupled with appropriate monitoring and counseling within a comprehensive treatment plan." These drugs may have side-effects, such as weight gain, breast development, liver damage and osteoporosis. Historically, surgical castration was used to
Castration Drug Used as Autism Therapy [SEP] Leuprorelin // Abbott Laboratories (2008-current) under the brand name "Lupron". It is available as a slow-release implant or subcutaneous/intramuscular injection. In the UK and Ireland, leuprorelin is marketed by Takeda UK as "Prostap SR" (one-month injection) and "Prostap 3" (three-month injection). A 2005 paper suggested leuprorelin as a possible treatment for autism, the hypothetical method of action being the now defunct hypothesis that autism is caused by mercury, with the additional unfounded assumption that mercury binds irreversibly to testosterone and therefore leuprorelin can help cure autism by lowering the testosterone levels and thereby mercury levels. However, there is no scientifically valid or
Castration Drug Used as Autism Therapy [SEP] Chemical castration // not affect testosterone and is therefore not a castration agent. Chemical castration is often seen as an easier alternative to life imprisonment or the death penalty because it allows the release of sex offenders while reducing or eliminating the chance that they reoffend. In 1981, in an experiment by P. Gagne, 48 males with long-standing histories of sexually deviant behaviour were given medroxyprogesterone acetate for as long as 12 months. Forty of those subjects were recorded as to have diminished desires for deviant sexual behaviour, less frequent sexual fantasies, and greater control over sexual urges. The research recorded a continuation
Castration Drug Used as Autism Therapy [SEP] Chemical castration // the drug. In 2009 a study into the effectiveness of the drug by Dr David Wales for the Corrections Department found that no research had been conducted in New Zealand into the effectiveness and such trials were "ethically and practically very difficult to carry out." In October 2011, the Russian parliament approved a law that allows a court-requested forensic psychiatrist to prescribe the chemical castration of convicted sex offenders who have harmed children under the age of 14. In July 2011, South Korea enacted a law allowing judges the power to sentence sex offenders who have attacked children under the
Castration Drug Used as Autism Therapy [SEP] Mark Geier // protocol for autism is supported only by junk science. The reaction of mercury and testosterone which the therapy is intended to treat is actually based on a protocol used to create testosterone crystals for use in X-ray crystallography rather than a physiological process that occurs in the human body. Although Abbott Laboratories sells Lupron in the U.S. and cooperated with the Geiers in one of the patent applications, it is no longer pursuing work with them, citing the nonexistence of scientific evidence to justify further research. When treating an autistic child, the Geiers order several dozen lab tests, costing $12,000:
Castration Drug Used as Autism Therapy [SEP] Chemical castration // drug has thereafter become a mainstay of chemical castration in America. Despite its long history and established use, the drug has never been approved by the FDA for use as a treatment for sexual offenders. California was the first U.S. state to specify the use of chemical castration as a punishment for child molestation, following the passage of a modification to Section 645 of the California penal code in 1996. This law stipulates that anyone convicted of child molestation with a minor under 13 years of age may be treated with DMPA if they are on parole after their second
Castration Drug Used as Autism Therapy [SEP] Chemical castration // but anti-androgenic hormone regimens would lower testosterone in women which can impact sex drive or sexual response. These drugs also deflate the breast glands and expand the size of the nipple. Also seen is a sudden shrink in bone mass and discoloration of the lips, reduced body hair, and muscle mass. The first use of chemical castration occurred in 1944, when diethylstilbestrol was used with the purpose of lowering men's testosterone. The antipsychotic agent benperidol is sometimes used to diminish sexual urges in people who display inappropriate sexual behavior, and can likewise be given by depot injection. But benperidol does
Castration Drug Used as Autism Therapy [SEP] Castration // to help and rescue these boys. "Voluntary" chemical or surgical castration has been in practice in many countries—reports are available from American and European countries in particular for over eighty years (chemical for circa thirty)—as an option for treatment for people who have broken laws of a sexual nature, allowing them to return to the community from otherwise lengthy detentions. The effectiveness and ethics of this treatment are heavily debated. A "temporary" "chemical castration" has been studied and developed as a preventive measure and punishment for several repeated sex crimes, such as rape or other sexually related violence. This has
Castration Drug Used as Autism Therapy [SEP] Paraphilia // content of the paraphilia. They are typically combined with cognitive behavioral therapy for best effect. Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are used, especially with exhibitionists, non-offending pedophiles, and compulsive masturbators. They are proposed to work by reducing sexual arousal, compulsivity, and depressive symptoms. They have been well received and are considered an important pharmacological treatment of paraphilia. Antiandrogens are used in more severe cases. Similar to physical castration, they work by reducing androgen levels, and have thus been described as chemical castration. The antiandrogen cyproterone acetate has been shown to substantially reduce sexual fantasies and offending behaviors. Medroxyprogesterone acetate and
A forwarded email that blames President Obama   for delays in the rescue of Richard Phillips, the captain of the ship   named the Maersk Alabama, which was taken over by pirates off the coast   of the African country of Somalia. It claims that Obama delayed the   deployment of Navy Seals by 36 hours and limited the rules of engagement   so the rescuers could not act unless Captain Phillips’ life was imminent   danger. [SEP] Richard Phillips (merchant mariner) // of the port of Mombasa. On Saturday, April 11, "Maersk Alabama" arrived in Mombasa, still under U.S. military escort. Captain Larry Aasheim then assumed command. Aasheim had previously been captain of the " Maersk Alabama" until Richard Phillips relieved him eight days prior to the pirate attack. An 18-man marine security team was on board. The U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation secured the ship as a crime scene. On April 9, a standoff began between the "Bainbridge" and the pirates in the "Maersk Alabama"s lifeboat, where they continued to hold Phillips hostage. Three days later, on Sunday, April 12, U.S.
A forwarded email that blames President Obama   for delays in the rescue of Richard Phillips, the captain of the ship   named the Maersk Alabama, which was taken over by pirates off the coast   of the African country of Somalia. It claims that Obama delayed the   deployment of Navy Seals by 36 hours and limited the rules of engagement   so the rescuers could not act unless Captain Phillips’ life was imminent   danger. [SEP] Richard Phillips (merchant mariner) // "Bainbridge" and speaking with military negotiators while being treated for an injury sustained in the takeover of "Maersk Alabama", surrendered and was taken into custody. He later pleaded guilty to hijacking, kidnapping and hostage-taking charges and was sentenced to over 33 years in prison. Following the hijacking, Phillips published "A Captain's Duty: Somali Pirates, Navy SEALS, and Dangerous Days at Sea". Columbia Pictures optioned the book and acquired the film rights in spring 2010. In March 2011, it was announced that Tom Hanks would star as Phillips, Barkhad Abdi as Abduwali Muse and Faysal Ahmed as Najee in a Sony
A forwarded email that blames President Obama   for delays in the rescue of Richard Phillips, the captain of the ship   named the Maersk Alabama, which was taken over by pirates off the coast   of the African country of Somalia. It claims that Obama delayed the   deployment of Navy Seals by 36 hours and limited the rules of engagement   so the rescuers could not act unless Captain Phillips’ life was imminent   danger. [SEP] MV Tygra // pirate, whom they had kept tied up for twelve hours, for Captain Phillips. The captured pirate was released but the pirates refused to release Phillips in exchange. Since the battery had died on the open-air boat, they left in the ship's covered lifeboat, taking Phillips with them. The lifeboat carried ten days of food rations, water and basic survival supplies. On April 8, the destroyer and the frigate were dispatched to the Gulf of Aden in response to a hostage situation, and reached "Maersk Alabama" early on April 9. "Maersk Alabama" then departed from the area with an armed escort,
A forwarded email that blames President Obama   for delays in the rescue of Richard Phillips, the captain of the ship   named the Maersk Alabama, which was taken over by pirates off the coast   of the African country of Somalia. It claims that Obama delayed the   deployment of Navy Seals by 36 hours and limited the rules of engagement   so the rescuers could not act unless Captain Phillips’ life was imminent   danger. [SEP] Maersk // to deal with a situation in which Americans were aboard a ship seized by pirates in over 200 years. By noon, the Americans were able to resist the pirates and regain control of the ship. However, the pirates retreated on a covered life boat and held the captain hostage for four days. On April 12, 2009, it was confirmed that the captain held hostage was freed by the US Navy, whose SEAL sharpshooters killed three of the pirates. A fourth pirate surrendered earlier due to a medical injury. These events were subsequently dramatized in the 2013 film "Captain Phillips", directed
A forwarded email that blames President Obama   for delays in the rescue of Richard Phillips, the captain of the ship   named the Maersk Alabama, which was taken over by pirates off the coast   of the African country of Somalia. It claims that Obama delayed the   deployment of Navy Seals by 36 hours and limited the rules of engagement   so the rescuers could not act unless Captain Phillips’ life was imminent   danger. [SEP] Maersk Alabama hijacking // in a week to be attacked by pirates who had previously extorted ransoms in the tens of millions of dollars. The story of the incident was reported in the 2010 book "A Captain's Duty: Somali Pirates, Navy SEALs, and Dangerous Days at Sea" by Stephan Talty and Captain Richard Phillips, who had been master of the vessel at the time of the incident. The hijacking also inspired the 2013 film "Captain Phillips" starring Tom Hanks. The ship, originating from Salalah, Oman was bound for Mombasa, Kenya after a stop in Djibouti with a crew of 23, loaded with of cargo.
A forwarded email that blames President Obama   for delays in the rescue of Richard Phillips, the captain of the ship   named the Maersk Alabama, which was taken over by pirates off the coast   of the African country of Somalia. It claims that Obama delayed the   deployment of Navy Seals by 36 hours and limited the rules of engagement   so the rescuers could not act unless Captain Phillips’ life was imminent   danger. [SEP] Foreign policy of the Barack Obama administration // ordered the U.S. military to conduct a rescue mission to free Phillips who was held hostage by the pirates for five days. He was rescued on April 12, 2009 by United States Navy SEALs who killed three pirates and obtained the surrender of a fourth, Abduwali Muse. The Obama administration's reaction and response to the kidnapping of Phillips had been commended as well as criticized, while others downplay his role in the rescue of Richard Phillips. In 2014, Obama sought to increase operations in the Horn region in response to the Westgate mall attack in Kenya. A taskforce for the
A forwarded email that blames President Obama   for delays in the rescue of Richard Phillips, the captain of the ship   named the Maersk Alabama, which was taken over by pirates off the coast   of the African country of Somalia. It claims that Obama delayed the   deployment of Navy Seals by 36 hours and limited the rules of engagement   so the rescuers could not act unless Captain Phillips’ life was imminent   danger. [SEP] Maersk Alabama hijacking // not afraid of the Americans. We will defend ourselves if attacked", one of the pirates told Reuters by satellite phone. Phillips' family had gathered at his farmhouse in Vermont awaiting a resolution to the situation. On Saturday, 11 April 2009, "Maersk Alabama" arrived in the port of Mombasa, Kenya, under U.S. military escort. An 18-man security team was on board. The FBI then secured the ship as a crime scene. Commander Frank Castellano, the commanding officer of "Bainbridge", stated that as the winds picked up, tensions rose among the pirates and "we calmed them" and persuaded the pirates to be
A forwarded email that blames President Obama   for delays in the rescue of Richard Phillips, the captain of the ship   named the Maersk Alabama, which was taken over by pirates off the coast   of the African country of Somalia. It claims that Obama delayed the   deployment of Navy Seals by 36 hours and limited the rules of engagement   so the rescuers could not act unless Captain Phillips’ life was imminent   danger. [SEP] A Captain's Duty // A Captain's Duty A Captain's Duty: Somali Pirates, Navy SEALs, and Dangerous Days at Sea is a book by Captain Richard Phillips, the captain of the container ship MV "Maersk Alabama" when it was hijacked in 2009. It was written with Stephan Talty and published by Hyperion on April 6, 2010 (and on audio by Tantor). The book tells the story of Phillips' capture and hostage-taking by Somali pirates in April 2009. It alternates between his five-day ordeal and the plight of his family in Vermont, watching the drama unfold on cable news. ABC News reported that the publication of
A forwarded email that blames President Obama   for delays in the rescue of Richard Phillips, the captain of the ship   named the Maersk Alabama, which was taken over by pirates off the coast   of the African country of Somalia. It claims that Obama delayed the   deployment of Navy Seals by 36 hours and limited the rules of engagement   so the rescuers could not act unless Captain Phillips’ life was imminent   danger. [SEP] Maersk Alabama hijacking // towed by the destroyer. On Sunday, 12 April 2009, U.S. Navy SEAL Snipers of Naval Special Warfare Development Group (DEVGRU) Red Squadron ("The Tribe") armed with semi-automatic Knights Armament Company Mk.11 Mod 0 (7.62-51mm NATO) Sniper Rifles, engaged and killed the three pirates on the lifeboat. Captain Phillips was rescued uninjured. Commander Castellano, with prior authorization from higher authority, ordered the action after determining Phillips' life was in immediate danger, citing reports that a pirate was pointing an AK-47 rifle at Phillips' back. Navy SEAL snipers, from SEAL Team Six, fired approximately 6-7 shots from "Bainbridge"s fantail, killing the three
A forwarded email that blames President Obama   for delays in the rescue of Richard Phillips, the captain of the ship   named the Maersk Alabama, which was taken over by pirates off the coast   of the African country of Somalia. It claims that Obama delayed the   deployment of Navy Seals by 36 hours and limited the rules of engagement   so the rescuers could not act unless Captain Phillips’ life was imminent   danger. [SEP] Richard Phillips (merchant mariner) // man-overboard boat, but it would not start, so the crew dropped a lifeboat and met the pirates to switch prisoners and boats. The captured pirate was released, but the pirates left with Phillips in the lifeboat before the crew could take action. The lifeboat was carrying ten days of food rations, water, and basic survival supplies. On April 8, the destroyer and the frigate were dispatched to the Gulf of Aden in response to the hostage situation, and reached "Maersk Alabama" early on April 9. "Maersk Alabama" then departed from the area with an armed escort, towards its original destination
A Time magazine cover from 1977 with the title “The Big Freeze” is an example of media fearmongering over  “global cooling” in the 1970s. [SEP] Global cooling // article by David Rose, showing this same cover image, to support his claim that there was as much concern in the 1970s about a "looming 'ice age'" as there was now about global warming. After researching the authenticity of the magazine cover image, in July 2013, Bryan Walsh, a senior editor at "Time", confirmed that the image was a hoax, modified from a 2007 cover story image for "The Global Warming Survival Guide". Global cooling Global cooling was a conjecture during the 1970s of imminent cooling of the Earth's surface and atmosphere culminating in a period of extensive glaciation. Press
A Time magazine cover from 1977 with the title “The Big Freeze” is an example of media fearmongering over  “global cooling” in the 1970s. [SEP] Global cooling // cooling which did not materialise, therefore there is no need to heed current scientific concerns about climate change. In a 1998 article promoting the Oregon Petition, Fred Singer argued that expert concerns about global warming should be dismissed on the basis that what he called "the same hysterical fears" had supposedly been expressed earlier about global cooling. Illustrating this argument, for several years an image has been circulated of a "Time" magazine cover, supposedly dated 1977, showing a penguin above a cover story title "How to Survive the Coming Ice Age". In March 2013, "The Mail on Sunday" published an
A Time magazine cover from 1977 with the title “The Big Freeze” is an example of media fearmongering over  “global cooling” in the 1970s. [SEP] George Kukla // highlighted the dangers of global cooling in Science magazine and, to President Richard Nixon. The Nixon administration reacted swiftly to their letter, which described calamities such as killer frosts, lower food production and floods, to come. By February 1973, the State Department had established a Panel on the Present Interglacial, which advised Drs. Kukla and Matthews that it "was seized of the matter" and numerous other government agencies were soon included. Kukla was co-author of a chapter in the book "Natural Climate Variability on Decade to Century Time Scales" published by the National Research Council. Kukla believed all glacial periods
A Time magazine cover from 1977 with the title “The Big Freeze” is an example of media fearmongering over  “global cooling” in the 1970s. [SEP] Global cooling // wrong about the near-term future" (though editor Jerry Adler stated that "the story wasn't 'wrong' in the journalistic sense of 'inaccurate.'") Academic analysis of the peer-reviewed studies published at that time shows that most papers examining aspects of climate during the 1970s were either neutral or showed a warming trend. In 1977, a popular book on the topic was published, called "The Weather Conspiracy: The Coming of the New Ice Age". There were also a US TV show narrated by Leonard Nimoy in the 1977 "In Search of... (TV series)", episode 27, season 2, titled, "The Coming Ice Age: An
A Time magazine cover from 1977 with the title “The Big Freeze” is an example of media fearmongering over  “global cooling” in the 1970s. [SEP] Global cooling // into the public consciousness". In the 1970s, the compilation of records to produce hemispheric, or global, temperature records had just begun. Spencer R. Weart's history of "The Discovery of Global Warming" states that: "While neither scientists nor the public could be sure in the 1970s whether the world was warming or cooling, people were increasingly inclined to believe that global climate was on the move, and in no small way." On January 11, 1970, the Washington Post reported that "Colder Winters Held Dawn of New Ice Age". In 1972, Emiliani warned "Man's activity may either precipitate this new ice age
A Time magazine cover from 1977 with the title “The Big Freeze” is an example of media fearmongering over  “global cooling” in the 1970s. [SEP] Media coverage of global warming // go through some of them. Almost exactly 30 years ago the world was in another panic about climate change. However, it wasn't the thought of global warming that concerned us. It was the fear of its opposite, global cooling. The doom-sayers were wrong in the past and it's entirely possible they're wrong this time as well." Numerous other examples exist. As McCombs et al.’s 1972 study of the political function of mass media showed, media coverage of an issue can “play an important part in shaping political reality”. Research into media coverage of climate change has demonstrated the significant role
A Time magazine cover from 1977 with the title “The Big Freeze” is an example of media fearmongering over  “global cooling” in the 1970s. [SEP] History of climate change science // which still hold today. Additionally he accurately predicted the rate of global warming for the period between 1972 and 2000. The mainstream news media at the time exaggerated the warnings of the minority who expected imminent cooling. For example, in 1975, "Newsweek" magazine published a story that warned of "ominous signs that the Earth's weather patterns have begun to change." The article continued by stating that evidence of global cooling was so strong that meteorologists were having "a hard time keeping up with it." On 23 October 2006, "Newsweek" issued an update stating that it had been "spectacularly wrong about
A Time magazine cover from 1977 with the title “The Big Freeze” is an example of media fearmongering over  “global cooling” in the 1970s. [SEP] Media coverage of global warming // global cooling. In the 1970s, global cooling, a claim with limited scientific support (even during the height of the media frenzy over global cooling, "the possibility of anthropogenic warming dominated the peer-reviewed literature") was widely reported in the press. Several media pieces have claimed that, since the even-at-the-time-poorly-supported theory of global cooling was shown to be false, that the well-supported theory of global warming can also be dismissed. For example, an article in "The Hindu" by Kapista and Bashkirtsev wrote: "Who remembers today, they query, that in the 1970s, when global temperatures began to dip, many warned that we faced
A Time magazine cover from 1977 with the title “The Big Freeze” is an example of media fearmongering over  “global cooling” in the 1970s. [SEP] John D. Hamaker // a series of scientific conferences concluded that the world's climate is cooling. Books such as "The Cooling", "The Weather Conspiracy", "The Weather Machine & The Threat Of Ice", "Climates Of Hunger", "Ice Ages" and "Climate: Present, Past & Future", warned of a coming ice age within decades. In 1975, Newsweek ran an article entitled "The Cooling World" that foretold the decimation of agricultural productivity based on a dramatic decrease in the Earth's temperature. and the New York Times published the article "Scientists ask why world is changing; Major cooling may be ahead". In parallel, books such as "A Blueprint for
A Time magazine cover from 1977 with the title “The Big Freeze” is an example of media fearmongering over  “global cooling” in the 1970s. [SEP] Media coverage of global warming // a new ice age? An editorial in The Time magazine on June 24, 1974, quoted concerned scientists as voicing alarm over the atmosphere 'growing gradually cooler for the past three decades', 'the unexpected persistence and thickness of pack ice in the waters around Iceland,' and other harbingers of an ice age that could prove 'catastrophic.' Man was blamed for global cooling as he is blamed today for global warming"., and the "Irish Independent" published an article claiming that "The widespread alarm over global warming is only the latest scare about the environment to come our way since the 1960s. Let's
Wyoming QB Allen still day-to-day on injury. [SEP] Josh Allen (quarterback) // qualified for a medical redshirt. Allen returned from the injury in 2016 and was Wyoming's starter. After throwing for over 3,200 yards and 28 touchdowns in 2016, he contemplated declaring for the 2017 NFL draft, initially telling his family, girlfriend, and a few friends that he would turn pro. Shortly before the deadline to declare for the draft, Vigen called Allen's father to explain why he should stay at Wyoming an extra year; according to Eisenberg, "When Joel Allen got off the phone and entered his son’s room, he found his son riddled with anxiety about his decision." Before the
Wyoming QB Allen still day-to-day on injury. [SEP] Josh Allen (quarterback) // draft declaration deadline, Bohl told Allen that staying in school one more year would improve his long-term NFL prospects, and Allen also sought advice from Wentz, who told him that in the NFL, he would have many league veterans depending on him to "win games and help secure their jobs." Allen ultimately remained at Wyoming. He threw for 1,812 yards, 16 touchdowns, and six interceptions in 2017. Source: Shortly after the completion of the 2017 NFL Draft, "ESPN" reporter Adam Schefter said about Allen's NFL prospects, "There was one personnel director who told me this week that you can put
Wyoming QB Allen still day-to-day on injury. [SEP] Josh Allen (quarterback) // and Eastern Michigan withdrew its offer when Allen visited Wyoming late in the 2014–15 junior-college signing period. Wyoming's coaches initially visited Reedley to scout another potential transfer, but former Fresno State assistant Dave Brown, who had since become part of the inaugural staff of new Cowboys head coach Craig Bohl, was familiar with Allen, and urged offensive coordinator Brett Vigen to recruit him. While researching Allen, Vigen noticed a large number of parallels between Allen and a quarterback whom he had recruited in 2010 while serving in the same role at North Dakota State—Carson Wentz, who went on to become
Wyoming QB Allen still day-to-day on injury. [SEP] Dwayne Allen // touchdown.Allen battled a knee injury late in the 2014 season, but started 13 games for the Colts and finished with 29 receptions, 395 yards, and 8 touchdowns. On November 8, 2015, Allen was poked in the eye by Denver Broncos' cornerback Aqib Talib. Talib was given a one-game suspension for the incident the following day. On December 30, 2015, Allen was placed on injured reserve. On March 7, 2016, Allen signed a four-year, $29.4 million extension with the Colts. On March 9, 2017, the Colts traded Allen and a 2017 sixth-round draft pick to the New England Patriots for a
Wyoming QB Allen still day-to-day on injury. [SEP] Pokey Allen // Youngstown State Penguins at Huntington, West Virginia, and finished the season at Allen maintained his reputation for publicity stunts at Boise State. During the run to the 1994 national championship game, he challenged local supporters and promised to ride a horse in downtown Boise if Bronco Stadium was sold out for their annual rivalry game versus Idaho, who had won twelve straight games over the Broncos. The stadium was sold out, BSU won and Allen kept his promise. Bothered by shoulder pain for about a month, Allen had outpatient surgery in Boise for a biopsy three days prior to the
Wyoming QB Allen still day-to-day on injury. [SEP] 1994 Boise State Broncos football team // the Broncos won all ten home games on the blue AstroTurf of Bronco Stadium. This was Boise State's last Big Sky title in football and final appearance in the I-AA playoffs; BSU moved up to Division I-A and the Big West Conference in 1996. Bothered by shoulder pain for about a month, Allen had outpatient surgery in Boise for a biopsy three days prior to the 1994 championship game, and was diagnosed two days after the game with rhabdomyosarcoma, a rare form of muscle The tumor in his upper right arm was removed in March and Allen underwent extensive chemotherapy
Wyoming QB Allen still day-to-day on injury. [SEP] Taylor Martinez // Wyoming. The specifics of Martinez' 2013 injury were revealed in January as a "...plantar plate tear of the second metatarsal phalangeal joint." The injury occurred on a running play in the middle of the fourth quarter during the Wyoming game and was aggravated during the Southern Miss game. He played again in the UCLA game, but the pain came back during the second half. The last game of his collegiate career was against Minnesota (a 34–23 loss). Playing aggravated the injury. It was reported in November recovery would not be full until February or March 2014. Martinez signed with the
Wyoming QB Allen still day-to-day on injury. [SEP] Josh Allen (quarterback) // to Fresno State's staff, sending a pointed email to an assistant referencing the fact that the team had received a commitment from a quarterback prospect who was both shorter and lighter than Allen was when Fresno State turned him down in high school. After being rebuffed, he committed to Wyoming, enrolling there prior to the 2015 season. In his first year at Wyoming, he played in two games and made one start. In his first career start he attempted only four passes before suffering a broken collarbone which ended his season; because the injury occurred early in the season, he
Wyoming QB Allen still day-to-day on injury. [SEP] Taurean Allen // 2010 in a 23–20 win against the Winnipeg Blue Bombers, in which he played off the bench. He continued to spend most of his time on the inactive list or the practice squad throughout the season, playing sporadically. Allen also missed playing time due to a leg injury. He finished the season with seven tackles in six games. Allen's contributions were largely on special teams, where he performed five of his tackles. He played in the West Final against the Saskatchewan Roughriders. Starting safety Lysack was released from the Stampeders during the offseason, and several players competed alongside Allen for
Wyoming QB Allen still day-to-day on injury. [SEP] Nate Allen (safety) // a calf injury. Nate Allen (safety) Nathaniel Ray Allen (born November 30, 1987) is an American football safety who is currently a free agent. He was drafted by the Philadelphia Eagles in the second round of the 2010 NFL Draft. He played college football at South Florida. He has also played for the Oakland Raiders. Allen played football for the Pop Warner Little Scholars. He was part of the SE Region, Peace River Conference, and played with the Cape Coral High School Seahawks. Allen attended Cape Coral High School, where he played quarterback and threw for more than 5,000 career
Strobe lighting provides a flicker of hope in the fight against Alzheimer’s [SEP] Accessible housing // lighting to eliminate shadows in the house can all help caregivers to reduce dangers to the person with Alzheimer disease. Other features that can improve the well-being of the elderly person can include marking doors with conspicuous and distinct signs or objects such as ribbons or wreaths, can assist memory. Adding a cot or bed to the main floor of the house to allow the elderly person to rest without climbing stairs to a bedroom can be helpful to the Alzheimer patient. Furniture and clutter can also be removed to make the house more safe for an elderly person inclined
Strobe lighting provides a flicker of hope in the fight against Alzheimer’s [SEP] Lighting // shown that the performance of students is influenced by the time and duration of daylight in their regular schedules. Designing school facilities to incorporate the right types of light at the right time of day for the right duration may improve student performance and well-being. Similarly, designing lighting systems that maximize the right amount of light at the appropriate time of day for the elderly may help relieve symptoms of Alzheimer's Disease. The human circadian system is entrained to a 24-hour light-dark pattern that mimics the earth’s natural light/dark pattern. When those patterns are disrupted, they disrupt the natural circadian
Strobe lighting provides a flicker of hope in the fight against Alzheimer’s [SEP] Lighting for the elderly // in the morning than younger adults. Furthermore, the elderly often wake several times throughout the night and have difficulty falling asleep. They are prone to taking numerous naps during the day. Furthermore, constant lighting in assisted living facilities has been demonstrated to impair sleep ability. In persons with Alzheimer's Disease, sleep disturbances are much more frequent and tend to be more severe. These patients exhibit intermittent sleep throughout the 24-hour day, instead of consolidated sleep at night and wakefulness during the day. Poor sleep is one of the largest complaints among the elderly, and poor sleep can be linked to
Strobe lighting provides a flicker of hope in the fight against Alzheimer’s [SEP] Vitascan // spot from the CRT, from interfering with the photomultiplier tubes. Darkening the whole room would make things quite inconvenient for any talent present in a Vitascan studio, but to get around this, strobe lighting was used in the studio for the aid of the talent. The strobe light, referred to as a "sync-lite" by DuMont, would light up only when the photomultiplier scoops were in the vertical blanking intervals of the video they would generate, to prevent any light interference to the photomultiplier tubes. Due to this, the system could not be used outdoors because sunlight would interfere during the
Strobe lighting provides a flicker of hope in the fight against Alzheimer’s [SEP] Alzheimer's disease // been reported. Stimulation-oriented treatments include art, music and pet therapies, exercise, and any other kind of recreational activities. Stimulation has modest support for improving behaviour, mood, and, to a lesser extent, function. Nevertheless, as important as these effects are, the main support for the use of stimulation therapies is the change in the person's routine. The efficacy of non-invasive brain stimulation and invasive brain stimulation in AD remains uncertain. Since Alzheimer's has no cure and it gradually renders people incapable of tending for their own needs, caregiving is essentially the treatment and must be carefully managed over the course of
Strobe lighting provides a flicker of hope in the fight against Alzheimer’s [SEP] Strobe light // movements of the vocal cords in slow motion during speech, a procedure known as video-stroboscopy. A common use of a strobe flash is to optimize a car engine's efficiency at a certain rotational period by directing the strobe-light towards a mark on the flywheel on the engine's main axle. The strobe-light tool for such ignition timing is called a timing light. Strobe lights are used in scientific and industrial applications, in clubs where they are used to give an illusion of slow motion, and are often used for aircraft anti-collision lighting both on aircraft themselves and also on tall stationary
Strobe lighting provides a flicker of hope in the fight against Alzheimer’s [SEP] Temporoparietal junction // for managing the symptoms of Alzheimer’s, current options include pharmaceuticals, psychosocial intervention, caregiving, and feeding tubes. Current pharmaceuticals are either acetylcholinesterase inhibitors or an NMDA receptor antagonist. Psychosocial interventions are used to supplement pharmaceutical usage as it can take some time to get used to. Since Alzheimer’s disease does eventually lead to death with the condition worsening over time, all family members can really do is provide care for those afflicted and try to make their lives as easy as possible as the situation worsens. There is a connection between the temporoparietal junction and the ability to recognize socially awkward
Strobe lighting provides a flicker of hope in the fight against Alzheimer’s [SEP] Music therapy for Alzheimer's disease // dance without the use of her walker. Alzheimer's Disease has been discussed in popular media outlets. The 2014 film "" follows patients suffering from Alzheimer's Disease and demonstrates how music can be used as a means for music therapy to alleviate some suffering and pain. This film highlights the impact that music can have on those who can not communicate in traditional ways, and the power that music can play, particularly that from one's youth. "Alive Inside" won the Audience Award for U.S. Documentaries, which was screened at the Sundance Film Festival. In response to the film"," the Alive Inside
Strobe lighting provides a flicker of hope in the fight against Alzheimer’s [SEP] Strobe light // with the music of the Grateful Dead during his legendary Acid Tests. In early 1966 Andy Warhol's lights engineer Danny Williams pioneered the use of multiple stroboscopes, slides and film projections simultaneously onstage during the 1966 Exploding Plastic Inevitable shows, and at Bill Graham's request, Williams built an enhanced stroboscopic light show to be used at Fillmore West. Sometimes strobe lighting can trigger seizures in photosensitive epilepsy. An infamous event took place in 1997 in Japan when an episode of the Pokémon anime, "Dennō Senshi Porygon" (commonly translated as "Electric Soldier Porygon"), featured a scene that depicted a huge explosion
Strobe lighting provides a flicker of hope in the fight against Alzheimer’s [SEP] Cure Alzheimer's Fund // directly to research. As of 2018, the Fund has provided 350 research grants totaling just over $77 million. Cure Alzheimer's Fund hosts an annual fall symposium in which funded researchers present their recent work. The event is held in Boston, free and open to the public. Recent presenters include Rudy Tanzi, Ph.D., Sam Gandy, M.D., Ph.D., and Steven Wagner, Ph.D. Cure Alzheimer’s Fund’s research objective is to support studies that will bring forward a further understanding of Alzheimer's disease and/or a development of treatment. All projects are based upon Cure Alzheimer’s roadmap of discovery, developed by the Research Consortium. Projects
Trump vows 'major' steps to aid U.S. economy amid coronavirus rise. [SEP] Economic policy of Donald Trump // tripled." Real GDP had grown a cumulative total of 3.1% from Q4 2016 through Q1 2018. On January 24, 2017, President Trump signed presidential memoranda to revive both the Keystone XL and Dakota Access pipelines. The memorandum is designed to expedite the environmental review process. On February 12, 2018, President Trump released his $1.5 trillion federal infrastructure plan during a meeting with several governors and mayors at The White House. Congress showed little enthusiasm for the plan, with "The Hill" reporting, "President Trump's infrastructure plan appears to have crashed and burned in Congress." Trends in inflation rates over the 2016-2018
Trump vows 'major' steps to aid U.S. economy amid coronavirus rise. [SEP] Presidency of Donald Trump // a potential treatment against PTSD and chronic pain; veterans organizations had pushed for such a study. Prior to Trump's election, the American economy had been expanding for over seven years, with steady growth in employment, a declining unemployment rate, and steadily rising home values, stock values and household income/wealth. Trump's economic policies centered around tax cuts, deregulation, trade protectionism and immigration reduction. As candidate and president, Trump claimed his policies would spur much higher GDP growth, stating in December 2017, "I see no reason why we don't go to 4, 5, even 6 percent," figures that economists generally consider impossible
Trump vows 'major' steps to aid U.S. economy amid coronavirus rise. [SEP] First 100 days of Donald Trump's presidency // 2017 Commerce Department report, in the first quarter of 2017, there was a "sharp decline from the 2.1% in Q1 2016 to 0.7% in Q1 2017—representing the weakest quarterly economic growth in three years. The report presents a statistical analysis of the American economy in the 2017 Q1—the gross domestic product (GDP). In spite of the soft GDP, by the end of Q1 2017, the S&P 500 was near an all-time high, representing a 12% rise from the first quarter of 2016, as investor confidence remained elevated based on Trump's promise to cut taxes, deregulate and spend heavily on infrastructure
Trump vows 'major' steps to aid U.S. economy amid coronavirus rise. [SEP] Economic policy of Donald Trump // pace since 2012. The budget deficit increased from $587 billion in 2016 to $665 billion in 2017, an increase of $78 billion or 12%, the highest level since 2013. The trade deficit increased 12.6% in calendar year 2017, resulting in the largest trade gap since 2008. The Census Bureau reported that the number of uninsured persons rose from 27.3 million in 2016 to 28.0 million in 2017. The uninsured rate rose from 8.6% in 2016 to 8.7% in 2017. This was the first increase in the number and rate of uninsured since 2010. After-tax corporate profits declined 6.0% in 2017.
Trump vows 'major' steps to aid U.S. economy amid coronavirus rise. [SEP] Economic policy of Donald Trump // with the American Voter", Trump also pledged to impose tariffs to discourage companies from laying off workers or relocating to other countries, through an "End the Offshoring Act". This was also unfulfilled as of December 2017. The BEA reported that real gross domestic product, a measure of both production and income, grew by 2.3% in 2017, vs. 1.5% in 2016 and 2.9% in 2015. Real GDP per capita increased in 2017 for the eighth consecutive year, its fifth consecutive record high. Discussing the second quarter 2018 GDP report, Trump stated, "We're on track to hit the highest annual average growth
Trump vows 'major' steps to aid U.S. economy amid coronavirus rise. [SEP] Economic policy of Donald Trump // defied the wishes of much of the American business community he pretends to help, threatened America's competitiveness as well as job growth in crucial industries and squandered what was left of America's claim to leadership on an issue of global importance." The Editorial Board referred to Trump's argument that an agreement to fight climate change would hurt the U.S. economy as "bogus." President Trump began efforts to loosen regulations imposed on financial institutions under the Dodd-Frank Act, which was implemented following the 2007–2008 subprime mortgage crisis. The president also installed budget director Mick Mulvaney to lead the Consumer Financial Protection
Trump vows 'major' steps to aid U.S. economy amid coronavirus rise. [SEP] Foreign policy of Donald Trump (2015-2016) // stealth technology. In November 2015, Trump promised to designate People's Republic of China a currency manipulator on his first day in office. He pledged "swift, robust and unequivocal" action against Chinese piracy, counterfeit American goods, and theft of U.S. trade secrets and intellectual property; and has condemned China's "illegal export subsidies and lax labor and environmental standards." In January 2016, Trump proposed a 45 percent tariff on Chinese exports to the United States to give "American workers a level playing field." When asked about potential Chinese retaliation to the implementation of tariffs, such as sales of U.S. bonds, Trump judged
Trump vows 'major' steps to aid U.S. economy amid coronavirus rise. [SEP] First 100 days of Donald Trump's presidency // a product where there's not even a safety problem. So it's crazy. I'm surprised you can't get them to move faster than that." Trump had promised in March 2016, to reform the pharmaceutical industry, including the removal of existing free market barriers to allow imported, dependable, safe, reliable, and cheaper drugs from overseas, bringing more options to American consumers. Following Trump's press conference on January 11, "Fortune" claimed that the largest pharmaceutical companies had lost over $20 billion in 20 minutes. The Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act (2003) expressly prohibited Medicare from negotiating bulk prescription drug prices and
Trump vows 'major' steps to aid U.S. economy amid coronavirus rise. [SEP] Linda Moore (businesswoman) // to America’s Skills Crisis." "TechCrunch", March 4, 2016. "Computers Will Boost R.I. Students." "The Providence Journal", April 16, 2016. "Fix America's Ailing International Tax System." "The Hill", April 26, 2016. "5 Steps Trump Must Take to Grow Jobs and the Economy." "CNBC", November 16, 2016. "A Million New American Jobs? Our Nation's Startups Can Help With That." "The Hill", April 4, 2017. "A New Wave of Innovation and Job Creation." "Morning Consult", April 28, 2017. "Two Years After OPM Cyberattack, More Must Be Done." "Morning Consult", June 13, 2017. "Tax Reform Could Create 5 Million Jobs." "Washington Examiner", June 14,
Trump vows 'major' steps to aid U.S. economy amid coronavirus rise. [SEP] Presidency of Donald Trump // Navarro as the first Director of the National Trade Council. In April 2017, Trump imposed a tariff on Canada's softwood lumber industry, following complaints from dairy farmers in Wisconsin about Canada's dairy pricing policy. The Trump administration announced a deal with China in May 2017 where China would increase imports of US beef, speed up its approvals of genetically modified products and allow foreign-owned financial groups to offer credit rating services in China while the United States would allow imports of cooked poultry meat from China, encourage exports of liquid natural gas to China, and tacitly endorse Beijing's geopolitical and
Accepting a friend request from a stranger will provide hackers with access to your computer and online accounts. [SEP] Privacy concerns with social networking services // case these devices are stolen. Install Anti-virus software. Others would be able to use viruses and other ways to invade a user's computer if he or she installed something unsafe. The users' privacy may be threatened by any actions. Following actions needs special attention. (1) Adding a new friend. Facebook reports 8.7% of its total profiles are fake. A user should be sure about who the person is before adding it as a new friend. (2) Clicking on links. Many links which looks attractive like gift cards are specially designed by malicious users. Clicking on these links may result in
Accepting a friend request from a stranger will provide hackers with access to your computer and online accounts. [SEP] Online uncovering in Hong Kong // methods. Most cases are attributed to the victims’ mismanagement of personal information online. Hackers will utilize engines such as Google to uncover the personal information through blogs, social networking websites or forums. Hackers will uncover the IP address of the targeted person through interception software. They can also uncover personal information by discovering the Internet Services Provider of the IP address. Installing spyware and virus to the computer could misappropriate personal information either easily. Social Engineering means hackers tempt the target to disclose personal information via multiple approaches. They may also collect and gather information from the cyber friends of
Accepting a friend request from a stranger will provide hackers with access to your computer and online accounts. [SEP] Privacy concerns with social networking services // the necessary antivirus and anti spyware programs to defend against breaches of private information via the internet. Always log out. It is dangerous to keep your device logged on since others may have access to your social profiles while you are not paying attention.Keep your full name and address to yourself. Children's safety may be compromised if their parents post their whereabouts in a site where others know who their real identities are. The majority 93% of online users share personal information, 70% of online users share photos and videos of their own children, and 45% of online users share
Accepting a friend request from a stranger will provide hackers with access to your computer and online accounts. [SEP] Digital privacy // within hacking there are two categories of invasion: 1) Directed attacks against someone individually, and 2) Directed attacks against groups. With the latter category, however, a hacker could effectively obtain a specified/particular individual's information through first targeting a larger group. An example of this possibility could be as follows: If a hacker, named individual-A, wishes to obtain a particular person's information, individual-B, he/she could first target a platform or group that has individual-B's information already, such as a credit agency, or they could likewise target a group that individual-B has previously relinquished/provided their data to, like a social media network
Accepting a friend request from a stranger will provide hackers with access to your computer and online accounts. [SEP] Trusted Computing // identifying herself to Bob. This might not be a problem where one wishes to be identified by the other party, e.g., during banking transactions over the Internet. But in many other types of communicating activities people enjoy the anonymity that the computer provides. The TCG acknowledges this, and allegedly have developed a process of attaining such anonymity but at the same time assuring the other party that he or she is communicating with a "trusted" party. This was done by developing a “trusted third party”. This entity will work as an intermediary between a user and his own computer and
Accepting a friend request from a stranger will provide hackers with access to your computer and online accounts. [SEP] Social hacking // cases, consumer data was stolen. In a study by Orgill et al., an observation is made that “it is important that each person responsible for computer security ask if their system is vulnerable to attacks by social engineers, and if so, how can the effect of a social engineering attack be mitigated.” Using strong passwords is one simple and easy method that assists in such mitigation, as is using reliable and effective anti-virus software. Other preventative measures include using different logins for services used, frequently monitoring accounts and personal data, as well as being alert to the difference between a
Accepting a friend request from a stranger will provide hackers with access to your computer and online accounts. [SEP] Identity theft // who carelessly put personal information on their profiles can easily be stolen just by simple browsing. There are people who meet online, get to know each other through the free Facebook chat and exchange of messages that then leads to sharing of private information. Others get romantically involved with their online friends that they tend to give too much information such as their social security number, bank account and even personal basic information such as home address and company address. This phenomenon lead to the creation of Senate Bill 52: Cybercrime Prevention Act of 2010. Section 2 of this bill
Accepting a friend request from a stranger will provide hackers with access to your computer and online accounts. [SEP] Social hacking // above, often have limited cause to justify their credibility because of their appearances. Similar to role playing, tailgating functions around the assumption of familiarity and trust. People are less likely to react suspiciously to anyone who appears to fit into the surrounding environment, and will be even less liable to question individuals who don’t call attention to themselves. Following behind someone in an unassuming fashion may even eliminate the need to establish a rapport with authorized personnel. Online social hacks include “spear phishing” in which hackers scam their victims into releasing sensitive information about themselves or their organization. Hackers will
Accepting a friend request from a stranger will provide hackers with access to your computer and online accounts. [SEP] Social hacking // request for help and a phishing attempt from strangers. To counter security breaches at the hands of social hackers as well as technical hackers, companies employ security professionals, known as ethical hackers, or more popularly, white hat hackers, to attempt to break into their systems in the same manner that social hackers would employ. Ethical hackers will leverage the same tools methods as hackers with criminal intent but with legitimate objectives. Ethical hackers evaluate security strengths and weaknesses and provide corrective options. Ethical hacking is also known as penetration testing, intrusion testing and red teaming. The internet affords social hackers
Accepting a friend request from a stranger will provide hackers with access to your computer and online accounts. [SEP] Privacy concerns with social networking services // or lured to meet strangers.They say that sexual predators can lurk anonymously through the wormholes of cyberspace and access victim profiles online. A number of highly publicized cases have demonstrated the threat posed for users, such as Peter Chapman who, under a false name, added over 3,000 friends and went on to rape and murder a 17-year-old girl in 2009. In another case, a 12-year-old, Evergreen girl was safely found by the FBI with the help of Facebook, due to her mother learning of her daughter's conversation with a man she had met on the popular social networking application. The
Heroin comes in the United States "from the southern border. [SEP] Golden Triangle (Southeast Asia) // most frequently brought to the United States by couriers, typically Thai and U.S. nationals, travelling on commercial airlines. California and Hawaii are the primary U.S. entry points for Golden Triangle heroin, but small percentages of the drug are trafficked into New York City and Washington, D.C. While Southeast Asian groups have had success in trafficking heroin to the United States, they initially had difficulty arranging street level distribution. However, with the incarceration of Asian traffickers in American prisons during the 1970s, contacts between Asian and American prisoners developed. These contacts have allowed Southeast Asian traffickers access to gangs and organizations
Heroin comes in the United States "from the southern border. [SEP] Heroin // country and in 2014, the DEA claimed most of the heroin in the US came from Colombia. , the Sinaloa Cartel is the most active drug cartel involved in smuggling illicit drugs such as heroin into the United States and trafficking them throughout the United States. According to the Royal Canadian Mounted Police, 90% of the heroin seized in Canada (where the origin was known) came from Afghanistan. Pakistan is the destination and transit point for 40 percent of the opiates produced in Afghanistan, other destinations of Afghan opiates are Russia, Europe and Iran. Conviction for trafficking heroin carries the
Heroin comes in the United States "from the southern border. [SEP] Drug corridor // cocaine imported into the U.S. flows from Latin America across the U.S.–Mexican border, while many imported synthetic drugs and former designer drugs flow south from Canada. Inhabitants of the lower Midwest and South, including Missouri, Arkansas, Tennessee, Kentucky, and the Carolinas, generally dub their locales to be part of the main trans-American drug corridor, as well as those of the Southwestern U.S. states such as Arizona, New Mexico and Texas. They claim that The major flow of drugs brought in from the Atlantic coast westward flows through their states, and that they are in the main drug corridor. Drug corridor
Heroin comes in the United States "from the southern border. [SEP] Illegal drug trade // the majority of US demand. Allegedly, during the Vietnam War, drug lords such as Ike Atkinson used to smuggle hundreds of kilograms of heroin to the US in coffins of dead American soldiers (see Cadaver Connection). Since that time it has become more difficult for drugs to be imported into the US than it had been in previous decades, but that does not stop the heroin smugglers from getting their product across US borders. Purity levels vary greatly by region with Northeastern cities having the most pure heroin in the United States. On 17 October 2018 police in Genoa Italy,
Heroin comes in the United States "from the southern border. [SEP] Heroin // mostly grown in Afghanistan (), and in Southeast Asia, especially in the region known as the Golden Triangle straddling Burma (), Thailand, Vietnam, Laos () and Yunnan province in China. There is also cultivation of opium poppies in Pakistan (), Mexico () and in Colombia (). According to the DEA, the majority of the heroin consumed in the United States comes from Mexico (50%) and Colombia (43-45%) via Mexican criminal cartels such as Sinaloa Cartel. However, these statistics may be significantly unreliable, the DEA's 50/50 split between Colombia and Mexico is contradicted by the amount of hectares cultivated in each
Heroin comes in the United States "from the southern border. [SEP] Illegal drug trade in China // entering into China, Southwest Asian heroin enters northwestern China from Afghanistan, Pakistan, and Tajikistan. Chinese authorities state that Southwest Asian heroin (mainly originating from Afghanistan) represents as much as 20 percent of the heroin that enters the northwest Xinjiang. This trend is increasing, and is attributed to the continuing development of the infrastructure and economy in the western parts of China. Due to the availability of the precursor chemicals, traffickers produce large amounts of crystal methamphetamine. Although much of the crystal methamphetamine is consumed locally, some is available for shipment to other markets throughout Southeast Asia. Several ports in southern
Heroin comes in the United States "from the southern border. [SEP] French Connection // his diplomatic status to bring in about 440 pounds (200 kg). The Federal Bureau of Narcotics's 1960 annual report estimated that from 2,600 to 5,000 pounds (1,200 to 2,300 kg) of heroin were coming into the United States annually from France. The French traffickers continued to exploit the demand for their illegal product, and by 1969, they were supplying the United States with 80 to 90 percent of its heroin. Because of this increasing volume, heroin became readily available throughout the United States. In an effort to limit the source, US officials went to Turkey to negotiate the phasing out
Heroin comes in the United States "from the southern border. [SEP] Heroin // and Hmong tribesmen in Laos. This helped the development of the Golden Triangle opium production region, which supplied about one-third of heroin consumed in US after the 1973 American withdrawal from Vietnam. In 1999, Burma, the heartland of the Golden Triangle, was the second largest producer of heroin, after Afghanistan. The Soviet-Afghan war led to increased production in the Pakistani-Afghan border regions, as U.S.-backed mujaheddin militants raised money for arms from selling opium, contributing heavily to the modern Golden Crescent creation. By 1980, 60 percent of heroin sold in the U.S. originated in Afghanistan. It increased international production of heroin
Heroin comes in the United States "from the southern border. [SEP] Opioid epidemic // medications. According to the CDC, tighter prescription policies by doctors did not necessarily lead to this increased heroin use. The main suppliers of heroin to the U.S. have been Mexican transnational criminal organizations. From 2005–2009, Mexican heroin production increased by over 600%, from an estimated 8 metric tons in 2005 to 50 metric tons in 2009. Between 2010 and 2014, the amount seized at the border more than doubled. According to the DEA, smugglers and distributors "profit primarily by putting drugs on the street and have become crucial to the Mexican cartels." Illicit fentanyl is commonly made in Mexico and
Heroin comes in the United States "from the southern border. [SEP] Illegal drug trade in China // the southeastern coastal areas, and then on to international markets. Heroin is transported by various overland methods to ports in China's southeastern provinces of Guangdong and Fujian. Heroin is transported to Guangdong and to the cities of Xiamen and Fuzhou in Fujian for shipment to international drug markets. Traffickers take advantage of expanding port facilities in northeast cities, such as Qingdao, Shanghai, and Tianjin, to ship heroin via maritime routes. Increased Chinese interdiction efforts along the Burma–China border have forced some traffickers to send heroin from Burma to China's southeastern provinces by fishing trawlers. In addition to Southeast Asian heroin
Indiana city in jeopardy of losing animal health business. [SEP] Friends of Indianapolis Animal Care & Control // Friends of Indianapolis Animal Care & Control Friend of Indianapolis Animal Care & Control is a non-profit organization based in Indianapolis, Indiana, that is dedicated to improving animal welfare by supporting the work of Indianapolis Animal Care & Control. Friends of Indianapolis Animal Care & Control was founded by a dedicated group of volunteers and leaders from Indianapolis Animal Care & Control, which is the city agency that deals with animal overpopulation in the Indianapolis area. Their services include collecting stray and injured animals, holding lost animals for owner retrieval, inspecting crimes related to animal ownership or breeding, and education
Indiana city in jeopardy of losing animal health business. [SEP] Humane Society of Indianapolis // Humane Society of Indianapolis The Humane Society of Indianapolis (which now goes by IndyHumane) is a humane organization in Indianapolis, Indiana. Located in Marion County, Indiana, it is a private non-profit charitable organization with approximately 10,000 animals cared for each year and was founded in 1905. In 1919, the Humane Society of Indianapolis merged with the Citizen's Humane Society. It is an animal rescue and adoption operation, whose physical plant is situated at 7929 Michigan Road in the city of Indianapolis. The mission of the Humane Society of Indianapolis is to "Provide shelter and comfort to animals in need on
Indiana city in jeopardy of losing animal health business. [SEP] Humane Society of Indianapolis // board of directors and has existed for 104 years. In March 2008, the Humane Society of Indianapolis partnered with Indianapolis Animal Care and Control to improve intake procedures and coordinate services. In September 2008, John Aleshire began his tenure as Executive Director, replacing outgoing Executive Director Martha Boden who left the position in June 2008. In May 2017, John Aleshire retired from his CEO position after years of success. Steven Stolen was selected to step into the role of CEO after a nationwide search. From late 2017 into 2018, the organization transitioned from "Humane Society of Indianapolis" to the shortened,
Indiana city in jeopardy of losing animal health business. [SEP] Humane Society of Indianapolis // the path to loving lifetime homes." Principal services offered are animal rescue, veterinary care of sick and injured animals who are in their care, adoption services, spay and neuter services for animals subject to intake, microchipping and animal training. A full-time staff is employed. In house veterinary care is available for intake animals who are injured or infirm. Foster care is available for intake animals who need rehabilitation. To supplement the full-time staff of 37, IndyHumane has several hundred part-time volunteers. IndyHumane has an on site adoption center and conducts classes in animal behavior. IndyHumane is governed by a 22-member
Indiana city in jeopardy of losing animal health business. [SEP] Difloxacin // blue, white and orange, respectively. Fort Dodge Animal Health was acquired by Zoetis in 2009. In February 2012, the Municipality of Ulianopolis (State of Para, Brazil) filed a complaint against Fort Dodge Saúde Animal Ltda. (FDSAL) and five other large companies alleging that waste sent to a local waste incineration facility for destruction, but that was not ultimately destroyed as the facility lost its operating permit, caused environmental impacts requiring cleanup. The Municipality is seeking recovery of cleanup costs purportedly related to FDSAL's share of all waste accumulated at the incineration facility awaiting destruction, and compensatory damages to be allocated
Indiana city in jeopardy of losing animal health business. [SEP] Animal Care Centers of NYC // incurred $18,000 in late fees and interest in FY 2013. AC&C also failed to provide a cost-benefit analysis of its planned move from office headquarters in Lower Manhattan, for which it has paid more than $221,000 in rental expenses annually since 2012. “Our audit indicates a lack of effective management and financial and operational negligence. As a result, questionable conditions put the well-being of the animal population at risk,” Stringer said. “Our City can and must do a better job of treating homeless animals with compassion and respect.” The audit set forth 18 recommendations to both Animal Care & Control
Indiana city in jeopardy of losing animal health business. [SEP] Midway City, California // roosters, ducks, and other animals selected at the store by customers while the animals are living and prepared while the customer waits. Dakao Poultry's fresh-poultry-for-consumption competitor, Baladi Poultry, is located only about 350 yards away east on Bolsa Avenue. Live pet animal seller Midway City Feed Store, which has been selling rabbits, guinea pigs, baby chicks, ducklings, and goslings from its large yellow barn in Midway City since 1942, resides between the two food animal sellers just off Bolsa Avenue north on Jackson Street, and the Animal Assistance League of Orange County, a nonprofit, no-kill humane society that aids lost
Indiana city in jeopardy of losing animal health business. [SEP] Matt O'Malley // sales in public parks and on city streets. As a result, Boston joined more than 120 municipalities that have banned the sale of commercially bred puppies and kittens from pet shops. Its aim was to diminish large-scale breeding facilities employed by these commercial facilities, many of which have multiple violations of the Federal Animal Welfare Act. 2014–2015 One of Councilor O'Malley's proudest achievements was getting free sunscreen dispensers placed in parks throughout the city. In the summer of 2015, with help from IMPACT Melanoma and Make Big Change (MBC), dispensers were installed and have since inspired cities around the country
Indiana city in jeopardy of losing animal health business. [SEP] Animal Care Centers of NYC // animal remains along with food meant for human consumption among the numerous discrepancies: "Animal Care & Control (AC&C) of New York City does not ensure the safety of drugs and vaccines it administers, fails to track them efficiently, operates an overcrowded shelter in Manhattan, and potentially unsafe facilities, according to an audit released today by New York City Comptroller Scott Stringer. “Animal Care & Control is running an operation that could make your stomach turn,” Comptroller Stringer said. “We found expired drugs, harmful conditions, and vaccines stored next to frozen remains. How we treat our most vulnerable creatures is a
Indiana city in jeopardy of losing animal health business. [SEP] Humane Society of Indianapolis // colloquial name "IndyHumane." This rebrand included a new logo. The Humane Society of Indianapolis hosts the Mutt Strut annually at the Indianapolis Motor Speedway. 2004 was the inaugural year. The Humane Society was a beneficiary of the Indyprov Laff-a-thon in 2009. Humane Society of Indianapolis The Humane Society of Indianapolis (which now goes by IndyHumane) is a humane organization in Indianapolis, Indiana. Located in Marion County, Indiana, it is a private non-profit charitable organization with approximately 10,000 animals cared for each year and was founded in 1905. In 1919, the Humane Society of Indianapolis merged with the Citizen's Humane Society.
Suzanne Somers advocates ‘natural’ approach when treating menopause [SEP] How to Live Forever // 2008, and has a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame. In the documentary, Suzanne Somers speaks to the International Congress on Anti-Aging Medicine in Las Vegas. She describes the array of hormones that she takes daily, explaining why she is a supporter of bioidentical hormone replacement therapy. Author of numerous diet books and autobiographies, Somers also wrote "Ageless: The Naked Truth About Bioidentical Hormones". Somers is an actress, author, and businesswoman, best known for her role as Chrissy Snow on "Three’s Company". Aubrey de Grey is a British author and theoretician in the field of gerontology. His studies focus
Suzanne Somers advocates ‘natural’ approach when treating menopause [SEP] Bioidentical hormone replacement therapy // been made for the efficacy of bioidentical hormones and compounded BHT, with varying evidence to support or contradict them: In 2006, actress Suzanne Somers released the book "Ageless: The Naked Truth About Bioidentical Hormones" endorsing the use of bioidentical hormones. The book was criticized by a group of doctors who (though generally supportive of BHT) state that more research is required, and object to protocols mentioned in the book—because of their potential danger and the promoters' lack of qualifications. Somers' book may have increased awareness of the existence of BHT for a growing number of menopausal women, but also may
Suzanne Somers advocates ‘natural’ approach when treating menopause [SEP] Menopause // natural stage of life. It is not a disease or a disorder. Therefore, it does not automatically require any kind of medical treatment. However, in those cases where the physical, mental, and emotional effects of perimenopause are strong enough that they significantly disrupt the life of the woman experiencing them, palliative medical therapy may sometimes be appropriate. In the context of the menopause, hormone replacement therapy (HRT) is the use of estrogen in women without a uterus and estrogen plus progestin in women who have an intact uterus. HRT may be reasonable for the treatment of menopausal symptoms, such as
Suzanne Somers advocates ‘natural’ approach when treating menopause [SEP] Bioidentical hormone replacement therapy // prescription), saliva testing, and an emphasis on countering the effects of aging rather than relieving the symptoms of menopause. This compounded BHT package has been promoted by Suzanne Sommers, Oprah Winfrey and other proponents as safer and more effective than CHRT, though there is no evidence to support these claims. Compounded BHT has been marketed on the internet by pharmacies which make unfounded claims for its safety and its effectiveness for a variety of conditions. There are a variety of FDA-approved products, made using bioidentical estrogens and micronized progesterone, used to treat the symptoms of menopause: The term "synthetic" is
Suzanne Somers advocates ‘natural’ approach when treating menopause [SEP] Hot Flash Havoc // billion women in menopause and over 1.5 billion women in perimenopause. The women interviewed in the documentary talk about their sex lives with candor and humor. The film addresses the use of hormone therapy to treat the symptoms of menopause and confronts the 2002 Women's Health Initiative study that led women to forgo estrogen-replacement medications and, in some cases, jeopardize their health. The documentary was selected for several film festivals around the United States including The Aspen Film Festival, The Film Festival of Colorado, Fort Lauderdale International Film Festival, Gig Harbor Film Festival, Port Townsend Film Festival, LA Femme Film
Suzanne Somers advocates ‘natural’ approach when treating menopause [SEP] Susan Lark // Susan Lark Susan Lark is a medical doctor. She obtained her education from Northwestern Medical School, and has served as one of the clinical faculty members at Stanford University. At Stanford, Lark taught In the department of family and community medicine. As of now Lark works in the field of women’s health and preventive medicine. Lark is the founder and director of the Menopause Self Help Center located in Los Altos, California. She is well known for her innovative approaches to menopause and hormone management as well as her views on holistic women’s health. Her holistic approaches focus on hormone
Suzanne Somers advocates ‘natural’ approach when treating menopause [SEP] Meg Mathews // for animal rights. During her time there, she designed a vegan handbag with the accessories company Wilby, with proceeds going to PETA. Currently, Meg has devoted her time to breaking the stigma around the menopause through her platform, MegsMenopause, launched in January 2018. She has appeared on Loose Women, BBC Radio, Lorraine, and Jeremy Vine promoting the cause. According to her website, "Meg turned fifty and began to experience the first symptoms of the menopause. She was shocked at the lack of support and understanding shown to women during this time in their lives and made it her mission to
Suzanne Somers advocates ‘natural’ approach when treating menopause [SEP] Menopause // cohosh. There is no evidence to support the efficacy of acupuncture as a management for menopausal symptoms. As of 2011 there is no support for herbal or dietary supplements in the prevention or treatment of the mental changes that occur around menopause. A 2016 Cochrane review found not enough evidence to show a difference between Chinese herbal medicine and placebo for the vasomotor symptoms. The cultural context within which a woman lives can have a significant impact on the way she experiences the menopausal transition. Menopause has been described as a subjective experience, with social and cultural factors playing a
Suzanne Somers advocates ‘natural’ approach when treating menopause [SEP] Menopause // MHT was once routinely prescribed, it is now only recommended in those with significant symptoms, as there are concerns about side effects. High-quality evidence for the effectiveness of alternative medicine has not been found. There is tentative evidence for phytoestrogens. During early menopause transition, the menstrual cycles remain regular but the interval between cycles begins to lengthen. Hormone levels begin to fluctuate. Ovulation may not occur with each cycle. The date of the final menstrual period is usually taken as the point when menopause has occurred. During the menopausal transition and after menopause, women can experience a wide range of
Suzanne Somers advocates ‘natural’ approach when treating menopause [SEP] Dorothy Jean Hailes // to address menopause. Hailes joined Monash University in 1972 as part of the health services of the students of the University before returning to the University of Melbourne in a similar role for three years later. Hailes established a second clinic at the Royal Women's Hospital in 1976 before becoming a menopause counselor from 1978 to 1986. She also was a clinical assistant at Royal Women's Hospital. The mainstream medicine industry supported Hailes for developing clinical and research expertise that was related to the health issues of older women. Hailes (with the Burger) developed a paper on a hormone replacement
Heparin recalled in France, Italy, Denmark: report. [SEP] 2008 Chinese heparin adulteration // 2008 Chinese heparin adulteration In March 2008, major recalls of heparin, a substance widely used as an injectable anticoagulant, were announced by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) due to contamination of the raw heparin stock imported from China. The raw material for the recalled heparin batches was processed in China from pig's intestines by the American pharmaceutical firm Scientific Protein Laboratories. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration was quoted as stating that at least 81 deaths were believed to be linked to a raw heparin ingredient imported from the People's Republic of China, and that they had also
Heparin recalled in France, Italy, Denmark: report. [SEP] 2008 Chinese heparin adulteration // are fully responsible for qualifying their suppliers through on-site audits, testing, and regular communications. This ongoing responsibility is essential to ensure supply chain security, drug quality and drug safety, These basic commitments to the pharmaceutical consumer can only be ensured by adherence to Good Manufacturing Practice and Good Distribution Practice. 2008 Chinese heparin adulteration In March 2008, major recalls of heparin, a substance widely used as an injectable anticoagulant, were announced by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) due to contamination of the raw heparin stock imported from China. The raw material for the recalled heparin batches was processed
Heparin recalled in France, Italy, Denmark: report. [SEP] Counterfeit medications // from which they were exported to U.S. wholesale distributors. The Wall Street Journal reported that the U.S. wholesale distributor was hired by Canada Drugs, which also owns CanadaDrugs.com, a retail pharmacy website that sells prescription medication internationally, with a focus on the American market. In 2007-08, 149 Americans died from a contaminated blood thinner called Heparin that was legally imported into the United States. Investigated by the FDA Office of Criminal Investigations, the Albers Medical investigation is the most prolific example to date. On August 21, 2005, the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Western District of Missouri issued a press
Heparin recalled in France, Italy, Denmark: report. [SEP] Heparin // biological activity that influences the anticoagulation effect of heparin. In December 2007, the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) recalled a shipment of heparin because of bacterial growth ("Serratia marcescens") in several unopened syringes of this product. "S. marcescens" can lead to life-threatening injuries and/or death. In March 2008, major recalls of heparin were announced by the FDA due to contamination of the raw heparin stock imported from China. According to the FDA, the adulterated heparin killed nearly 80 people in the United States. The adulterant was identified as an "over-sulphated" derivative of chondroitin sulfate, a popular shellfish-derived supplement often
Heparin recalled in France, Italy, Denmark: report. [SEP] Made in China // During the 2008 Chinese export recalls, heparin was recalled by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) due to contamination of the raw heparin stock imported from China. Lenovo has admitted in a public statement that it had pre-installed third-party adware named Superfish that was considered malicious on an unknown number of machines, beginning from 2010. In 2013, Chinese Premier Li Keqiang and his State Council approved a plan called "Made in China 2025". Drafted by the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, it took over two years to complete by one hundred and fifty people. The plan's aim is
Heparin recalled in France, Italy, Denmark: report. [SEP] 2008 Chinese heparin adulteration // fraction of true heparin starting material, and mimics the in-vitro properties of heparin, the counterfeit was almost certainly intentional as opposed to an accidental lapse in manufacturing. The raw heparin batches were found to have been cut from 2–60% with the counterfeit substance, and motivation for the adulteration was attributed to a combination of cost effectiveness and a shortage of suitable pigs in China. When the FDA conducted an inspection of Baxter's Chinese Heparin supplier, it found serious deficiencies at the facility which the FDA detailed in a warning letter. This example once again demonstrated the consequences of a company
Heparin recalled in France, Italy, Denmark: report. [SEP] 2008 Chinese heparin adulteration // not following basic Good Manufacturing Practices (GMPs). As detailed in the Warning Letter, the company failed to monitor changes in the impurity profile of incoming heparin active raw material, adequately investigate out-of-specification results, document actual processing steps in batch records, validate all critical steps in the process, qualify all suppliers, and use valid methods to test products. The FDA has stated that it does not have the funds nor bear the responsibility to inspect on a regular basis overseas upstream processors of finished active pharmaceutical ingredients such as heparin. However, according to the internationally harmonized guideline, ICH Q7, API manufacturers
Heparin recalled in France, Italy, Denmark: report. [SEP] Baxter International // was brought into question when they were linked to 19 deaths in the United States. Upon inspection, one of the raw ingredients used by Baxter was found to be contaminated – between 5 and 20 percent – with a substance that was similar, but not identical, to the ingredient itself. The company initiated a voluntary recall, temporarily suspended the manufacture of heparin, and launched an investigation. The investigation into the contamination has focused on raw heparin produced by Changzhou Scientific Protein Laboratories, a China-based branch of Scientific Protein Laboratories, based in Waunakee, Wisconsin. Due to procedural errors, Changzhou SPL's facilities
Heparin recalled in France, Italy, Denmark: report. [SEP] Baxter International // were never subjected to inspection by US FDA officials, as required by FDA regulations. In addition, Changzhou SPL's products were also never certified as safe for use in pharmaceutical products by Chinese FDA officials, due to Changzhou SPL's registration as a chemical company rather than a pharmaceutical manufacturer. Though Baxter was first to recall heparin because of increased adverse reactions, after the contaminant was identified and testing protocols were shared with other manufacturers globally, over a dozen other companies in nearly a dozen countries issued recalls, which linked back to certain supply points in China. In early 2009, samples of
Heparin recalled in France, Italy, Denmark: report. [SEP] Heparin // abnormality is not associated with liver dysfunction, and it disappears after the drug is discontinued. The other complication is hyperkalemia, which occurs in 5 to 10% of patients receiving heparin, and is the result of heparin-induced aldosterone suppression. The hyperkalemia can appear within a few days after the onset of heparin therapy. More rarely, the side-effects alopecia and osteoporosis can occur with chronic use. As with many drugs, overdoses of heparin can be fatal. In September 2006, heparin received worldwide publicity when three prematurely born infants died after they were mistakenly given overdoses of heparin at an Indianapolis hospital. Heparin
Experimental Drug Raises Good Cholesterol Levels in Early Trial [SEP] PCSK9 // first to market a PCSK9 inhibitor, with a competitor Amgen reaching market slightly later. The drugs are approved by the FDA for treatment of hypercholesterolemia, notably the genetic condition heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia which causes high cholesterol levels and heart attacks at a young age. An FDA warning in March 2014 about possible cognitive adverse effects of PCSK9 inhibition caused concern, as the FDA asked companies to include neurocognitive testing into their Phase III clinical trials. A number of monoclonal antibodies that bind to and inhibit PCSK9 near the catalytic domain were in clinical trials . These include evolocumab (Amgen), bococizumab
Experimental Drug Raises Good Cholesterol Levels in Early Trial [SEP] AIM-HIGH trial // stopped early because there was a demonstrable lack of efficacy for this intervention. The addition of high dose, extended release niacin to a statin did increase HDL cholesterol, as expected, but did not reduce cardiovascular events. The analysis also showed that there was little to no probability that adding high-dose, extended release niacin to statin treatment would show a benefit even if the study continued to its originally planned completion. AIM-HIGH trial AIM-HIGH was a multi-center clinical trial related to the prophylactic treatment coronary artery disease involving some 90 sites in the United States and Canada, which was conducted between
Experimental Drug Raises Good Cholesterol Levels in Early Trial [SEP] Alirocumab // lowering of LDL cholesterol when diet and statin treatment have not worked. This was the first approval of a PCSK9 inhibitor. The FDA approval was contingent on the completion of further clinical trials to better determine efficacy and safety. Regeneron and Amgen had each filed for patent protection on their monoclonal antibodies and the companies ended up in patent litigation in the U.S. In March 2016 a district court found that alirocumab infringed Amgen's patents; Amgen then requested an injunction barring Regeneron and Sanofi from marketing alirocumab, which was granted in January 2017. The judge gave Regeneron and Sanofi 30
Experimental Drug Raises Good Cholesterol Levels in Early Trial [SEP] Steven Nissen // RECORD clinical trial (a six-year, open label randomized control trial), which failed to show heart infarct risks associated with the drug. In 2003 Nissen led a "Journal of the American Medical Association" study, producing evidence that five weekly infusions of ApoA-I Milano/phospholipids complex, a synthetic form of HDL, can possibly remove significant amounts of plaque from coronary arteries. The lipoprotein enhanced the ability of HDL, or “good” cholesterol to usher fat out of the arteries and into the liver for excretion leading to the purchase of Esperion Therapeutics, the tiny company that had produced recombinant Apo-A1 Milano, by Pfizer for
Experimental Drug Raises Good Cholesterol Levels in Early Trial [SEP] Atherosclerosis // in "JAMA" in early 2006. Ongoing work starting in the 1990s may lead to human clinical trials—probably by about 2008. These may use synthesized Apo-A1 Milano HDL directly, or they may use gene-transfer methods to pass the ability to synthesize the Apo-A1 Milano HDLipoprotein. Methods to increase high-density lipoprotein (HDL) particle concentrations, which in some animal studies largely reverses and remove atheromas, are being developed and researched. However, increasing HDL by any means is not necessarily helpful. For example, the drug torcetrapib is the most effective agent currently known for raising HDL (by up to 60%). However, in clinical trials
Experimental Drug Raises Good Cholesterol Levels in Early Trial [SEP] Bad Pharma // one drug company. Aside from all this, for several of the most important and enduring problems in medicine, we have no idea what the best treatment is, because it's not in anyone's financial interest to conduct any trials at all. In "Missing Data," Goldacre argues that the clinical trials undertaken by drug companies routinely reach conclusions favourable to the company. For example, in a 2007 journal article published in PLOS Medicine, researchers studied every published trial on statins, drugs prescribed to reduce cholesterol levels. In the 192 trials they looked at, industry-funded trials were 20 times more likely to produce
Experimental Drug Raises Good Cholesterol Levels in Early Trial [SEP] Pitavastatin // Kowa Pharmaceuticals is the owner of the American patent to pitavastatin. Like the other statins, pitavastatin is indicated for hypercholesterolaemia (elevated cholesterol) and for the prevention of cardiovascular disease. A 2009 study of the 104 week LIVES trial found pitavastatin increased HDL cholesterol, especially in patients with HDL lower than 40 mg/dL, who had a 24.6% rise, in addition to greatly reducing LDL cholesterol 31.3%. HDL improved in patients who switched from other statins and rose over time. In the 70-month CIRCLE observational study, pitavastatin increased HDL more than atorvastatin. It has neutral or possibly beneficial effects on glucose control.
Experimental Drug Raises Good Cholesterol Levels in Early Trial [SEP] Atorvastatin // and his bosses, Roger Newton and Ronald Cresswell, in 1985 convinced company executives to move the compound into expensive clinical trials. Early results comparing atorvastatin vs. simvastatin demonstrated that atorvastatin was significantly more potent and displayed fewer side effects. In 1994 the findings of a Merck-funded study were published in "The Lancet" concluding the efficacy of statins in lowering cholesterol in 4444 Scandinavian patients proving for the first time not only that a "statin reduced 'bad' LDL cholesterol but also that it led to a sharp drop in fatal heart attacks among patients with heart disease." In 1996 Warner-Lambert entered
Experimental Drug Raises Good Cholesterol Levels in Early Trial [SEP] Ezetimibe/simvastatin // small and unique patient population, 720 patients in an Amsterdam hospital with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia. Merck and Schering Plough have reported that they have three trials underway to focus on outcomes, measuring the drug's effect on heart attacks and strokes in patients. These results were presented in full at the American College of Cardiology meeting on 30 March 2008, two years after the last patient completed the study. The House Committee on Energy and Commerce conducted an inquiry into the delayed disclosure of the study data. In the United States, Vytorin featured a television advertising campaign showing a series of
Experimental Drug Raises Good Cholesterol Levels in Early Trial [SEP] Dalcetrapib // Dalcetrapib Dalcetrapib (INN, codenamed JTT-705) is a CETP inhibitor which was being developed by Hoffmann–La Roche until May 2012. The drug was aimed at raising the blood levels of "good cholesterol" (cholesterol carried in HDL particles, "aka" HDL-C). Prevailing observations indicate that high HDL levels correlate with better overall cardiovascular health, though it remains unclear whether raising HDL levels consequently leads to an increase in cardiovascular health. A 24-week clinical trial showed that dalcetrapib did increase HDL-C levels, supporting the agent's desired effect. Further, the dal-PLAQUE phase IIb trial found evidence of plaque reduction. Plaque reduction is an anticipated observation
One in 10 babies born in this country is born in Texas. [SEP] Texas // mortality rate in the developed world, and the rate by which Texas women died from pregnancy related complications doubled from 2010 to 2014, to 23.8 per 100,000. A rate unmatched in any other U.S. state or economically developed country. See Maternal healthcare in Texas. Texas has the seventh highest birth rate in the United States, with nearly 400,000 babies born each year. Over half of all Texas births are paid by Medicaid, totaling over $2.2 billion per year in birth and delivery-related services for mothers and infants. Studies have found that infant mortality is usually caused by birth defects, pre-term
One in 10 babies born in this country is born in Texas. [SEP] Texas // American population is in Austin, Corpus Christi, San Antonio, and the Sharyland area next McAllen, Texas. Three federally recognized Native American tribes reside in Texas: the Alabama-Coushatta Tribe, the Kickapoo Traditional Tribe, and the Ysleta del Sur Pueblo. In 2010, 49 percent of all births were Hispanics; 35 percent were non-Hispanic whites; 11.5 percent were non-Hispanic blacks, and 4.3 percent were Asians/Pacific Islanders. Based on Census Bureau data released on February 2011, for the first time in recent history, Texas's white population is below 50 percent (45 percent) and Hispanics grew to 38 percent. Between 2000 and 2010, the total
One in 10 babies born in this country is born in Texas. [SEP] Texas // population growth by 20.6 percent, but Hispanics growth by 65 percent, whereas non-Hispanic whites only grew by 4.2 percent. Texas has the fifth highest rate of teenage births in the nation and a plurality of these are to Hispanics. The state has three cities with populations exceeding one million: Houston, San Antonio, and Dallas. These three rank among the 10 most populous cities of the United States. As of 2010, six Texas cities had populations greater than 600,000 people. Austin, Fort Worth, and El Paso are among the 20 largest U.S. cities. Texas has four metropolitan areas with populations greater
One in 10 babies born in this country is born in Texas. [SEP] Texas // 3 weeks before the estimated due date. Preterm birth rates in Texas are consistently higher than the nationwide rate. In 2016, 10.4% of live births in Texas were preterm. The rate for Black mothers specifically was elevated - 13.6%. Numerous factors have been associated with premature birth, including lack of prenatal care, race, obesity, smoking, and even air pollution. A low birth weight is less than 2500 grams. The rate of low birth weight in Texas has always been higher than the nationwide rate. In 2016, 8.4% of live births in Texas had a low birth weight. The rate for
One in 10 babies born in this country is born in Texas. [SEP] Demographics of Texas // accounted for more than half of all births (50.2%), while non-Hispanic whites accounted for just 34%. In 2016 the state had 59,115 persons of Cuban origin. 6,157 of them lived in Travis County. Texas has one of the largest African-American populations in the country. African Americans are concentrated in northern, eastern and east central Texas as well as the Dallas, Houston and San Antonio metropolitan areas. African Americans form 24 percent of both the cities of Dallas and Houston, 19% of Fort Worth, 8.1 percent of Austin, and 7.5 percent of San Antonio. They form a majority in sections of
One in 10 babies born in this country is born in Texas. [SEP] Boling-Iago, Texas // 23 obtained an associate degree, 24 earned a bachelor's degree, and no one had an advanced degree. Of the 803 persons who were 18 years and older, 75 were military veterans. Of the 1,342 people, 1,239 were born in Texas, 51 were born in other states, and 52 were born in a Latin American country. Of the 1,237 persons 5 years or older, 958 were English only speakers and 279 were bilingual in English and Spanish. However, 65 of the Spanish-speakers could not speak English "very well". There were 183 persons who claimed to have French ethnicity, 180 Irish, 91
One in 10 babies born in this country is born in Texas. [SEP] Minnesota Texas Adoption Research Project // 1992 and again between 1996 and 2000. Grotevant and colleagues at the Minnesota site have followed the adopted children and their adoptive parents (e.g., Grotevant, Ross, Marchel, & McRoy, 1999; Dunbar & Grotevant, 2004); McRoy and colleagues at the University of Texas at Austin have followed the children’s birthmothers (e.g., Christian, et al., 1997; Fravel, et al., 2000). Adoptive families and birthmothers were recruited for the study through 35 adoption agencies located across the United States. Families where there was at least one adopted child (the "target child") between the ages of 4 and 12 at the time of the
One in 10 babies born in this country is born in Texas. [SEP] Texas // percentage of any state in the country. In 2015, the population of illegal immigrants living in Texas was around 800,000. Texas's Rio Grande Valley has seen significant migration from across the U.S.–Mexico border. During the 2014 crisis, many Central Americans, including unaccompanied minors traveling alone from Guatemala, Honduras, and El Salvador, reached the state, overwhelming Border Patrol resources for a time. Many sought asylum in the United States. In 2009, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security estimated 1.68 million illegal immigrants lived in Texas. While the number of illegal immigrants living in the U.S. has declined since 2009, in Texas
One in 10 babies born in this country is born in Texas. [SEP] Texas Medical Center // Over 25,000 babies were delivered each year, more than one baby every 20 minutes. The Texas Medical Center offered over 9,200 total patient beds. The Center receives an average of 3,300 patient visits a day, and over eight million annual patient visits, including over 18,000 international patients. The TMC has over 750,000 ER visitors each year. In 2011, the center employed over 106,000 people, including 20,000 physicians, scientists, researchers and other advanced degree professionals in the life sciences. The TMC has over 160,000 visitors each day. The Texas Medical Center houses the world's largest children's hospital (Texas Children's Hospital), as
One in 10 babies born in this country is born in Texas. [SEP] James Long (filibuster) // settle in Texas. She gave birth to Mary James Long, said to be the first child born in Texas of English descent, a claim which has been disproved by census records from 1807 to 1826 which show a number of Anglo-American births. Throughout a long winter, she and her children struggled as she waited for her husband's return. At one point, several Karankawa Indians appeared but Long fired a cannon each day to make them think there was an army stationed there. Finally, during the spring, the news of her husband's death finally reached her. Jane Long left Texas but
Too many people missing out on health benefits of golf, says expert panel [SEP] Exercise prescription // golfing. Incidental activities are encouraged, such as using the stairs instead of an escalator/lift or walking short distances instead of driving. Dr Gebel, who works at James Cook University's Centre for Chronic Disease Prevention conducted a study reporting increased health benefits through incorporation of more vigorous exercise. He stated that this could include 'vigorous gardening', not necessarily meaning going to the gym. Diabetes Australia suggest 30 minutes of exercise daily as a suitable target, which can be divided into three 10-minute sessions throughout the day. Exercise programs however should be tailored and delivered by individuals with appropriate qualifications. According to
Too many people missing out on health benefits of golf, says expert panel [SEP] Amateur sports // Physical and mental health can improve with the right amount of physical fitness incorporated into everyday life. It allows for the child to have a healthy developing body, and a BMI within the normal range. Physical activity has been proven to improve mood and decrease both stress and anxiety. Studies have shown that the more physical activity one participates in as a child, the happier and more stable that person will be as an adult. Thus, the more students who participate in school sports, the more students who will find themselves balanced and successful adults later in life. Golf still
Too many people missing out on health benefits of golf, says expert panel [SEP] Golf // year decreased from 6.9 million in 2000 to 4.6 million in 2005, according to the National Golf Foundation. The NGF reported that the number who played golf at all decreased from 30 to 26 million over the same period. In February 1971, astronaut Alan Shepard became the first person to golf anywhere other than Earth. He smuggled a golf club and two golf balls on board Apollo 14 with the intent to golf on the Moon. He attempted two drives. He shanked the first attempt, but it is estimated his second went more than 200 yards. Number of golf courses
Too many people missing out on health benefits of golf, says expert panel [SEP] Food, Nutrition, Physical Activity and the Prevention of Cancer: a Global Perspective // more likely to get cancer.” The report has also affected behaviour. A YouGov survey, commissioned by WCRF UK a year after the launch, revealed that since the launch 23 per cent of people had tried to eat more fruit and vegetables as a result of the report; 18 per cent of people had tried to watch their weight and 18 per cent of people had tried to be more physically active. In May 2009, the report was criticised by University College London pharmacologist David Colquhoun on his blog Improbable Science. Colquhoun questioned the Expert Panel's conclusion that there is convincing
Too many people missing out on health benefits of golf, says expert panel [SEP] Physical fitness // as strolling and housework is unlikely to have much positive impact on the health of most people. For aerobic exercise to be beneficial it must raise your heartbeat and make you sweat. The more exercise you do, the better. Everyone should do a minimum of 150 minutes a week of moderate-intensity aerobic exercise but that really is the minimum for health benefits. If you can go beyond 150 minutes, you’ll gain even more health benefits. Sedentary time (time spent sitting down to watch TV, use a computer, read or listen to music) is bad for your health, even for those
Too many people missing out on health benefits of golf, says expert panel [SEP] Screen sports // in Korea has been attracting attention not only in Korea but also in the resorts of the world and the wealthy people of the Middle East. According to the Korea Golf Association, the number of golfers who play golf on a screen golf course at least once a year is about 6.2 million. Major users have also expanded from the middle-aged to the younger ones in their 20s and 30s, becoming a living sport. By 2016, the total number of strokes has exceeded 30,000, and more than 55 million golfers annually enjoy screen golf. The main sporting event for screen
Too many people missing out on health benefits of golf, says expert panel [SEP] Tiger Woods // Sportswriter Bill Lyon of Knight Ridder asked in a column, "Isn't Tiger Woods actually bad for golf?" (though Lyon ultimately concluded that he was not). At first, some pundits feared that Woods would drive the spirit of competition out of the game of golf by making existing courses obsolete and relegating opponents to simply competing for second place each week. A related effect was measured by University of California economist Jennifer Brown, who found that other golfers scored higher when competing against Woods than when he was not in the tournament. The scores of highly skilled (exempt) golfers are nearly
Too many people missing out on health benefits of golf, says expert panel [SEP] Yips // the yips. Golfers who have played for more than 25 years appear most prone to the condition. Although the exact cause of the yips has yet to be determined, one possibility is biochemical changes in the brain that accompany aging. Excessive use of the involved muscles and intense demands of coordination and concentration may exacerbate the problem. Giving up golf for a month sometimes helps. Focal dystonia has been mentioned as another possibility for the cause of yips. Professional golfers seriously afflicted by the yips include Pádraig Harrington, Bernhard Langer, Ben Hogan, Harry Vardon, Sam Snead, Ian Baker-Finch and Keegan
Too many people missing out on health benefits of golf, says expert panel [SEP] Wood (golf) // carry the ball farther. These players generally benefit from a more flexible shaft and a higher loft angle; this combination "times" the release of stored energy in the shaft to the slower swing, and the increased loft will launch the ball higher and increase backspin to improve flight time. The standard women's driver has a 13° loft and "Lady"-flex shaft, while senior men's drivers average 11° and have an "intermediate"- or "senior"-flex shaft. Players with problems slicing their drive shots (for a right-hander, a slice starts straight and curves to the right) may benefit from an additional closed offset of
Too many people missing out on health benefits of golf, says expert panel [SEP] Screen sports // year enjoy screen golf. According to the Korea Golf Census, published by Screen Golf Golfzon and research firm Macromill Embrain, it is estimated that the number of screen golfers in 2018 will be 3.51 million. With the continuous spread of screen golf, the golf population has been growing at a relatively low level of household income. Golfers with an average monthly household income of 3 million won accounted for 16.8 percent, up 4.4 percentage points from the previous survey, and golfers with 2 million won increased by 1.7 percentage points to 8.5 percent. 29% of all golfers are less than
Page 92 of the House health care bill "says specifically that people can't purchase private health insurance after a date certain. [SEP] Andy Harris (politician) // plan would leave the new congressmen and their staffers without coverage until the following pay period, 28 days after inauguration. Concerned about this gap in coverage, he asked whether new government employees could purchase temporary coverage to fill this gap. "This is the only employer I've ever worked for where you don't get coverage the first day you are employed," he said through his spokeswoman, Anna Nix. Through a spokesman, his defeated opponent, Frank Kratovil, seized upon this dialogue, characterizing the question as a "demand" for special treatment and for access to the benefits he opposed in the new law.
Page 92 of the House health care bill "says specifically that people can't purchase private health insurance after a date certain. [SEP] Bipartisan Health Care Stabilization Act of 2017 // under 30 to purchase catastrophic health insurance plans, often called 'copper' plans for their low actuarial value. The bill quickly received 24 bipartisan cosponsors, including Sen. Susan Collins (R-ME), Sen. Lisa Murkowski (R-AK), Sen. Joe Donnelly (D-IN) and Sen. Joe Manchin (D-WV). However, the bill faced a murky political future due to opposition from Republican leadership in both chambers of Congress. The CBO reported on 25 October 2017 that the bill would end up cutting the deficit by $3.8 billion. While the CBO estimate of the bill did not expect it to substantially change the number of people on health
Page 92 of the House health care bill "says specifically that people can't purchase private health insurance after a date certain. [SEP] American Health Care Reform Act of 2013 // the bill say it allows individuals to decide what they want their health insurance to cover, instead of the government mandating what must be covered by insurance plans. “If sex changes operations are not something you want … if you want a barebones policy, [or] if you want a Cadillac plan, Americans will be able to purchase what they prefer," Scalise said. American Health Care Reform Act of 2013 The American Health Care Reform Act of 2013 (H.R. 3121) is a bill introduced to the 113th United States Congress. All Republicans in the United States House of Representatives opposed the
Page 92 of the House health care bill "says specifically that people can't purchase private health insurance after a date certain. [SEP] Betsy McCaughey // "straight from the text of the bill." Supporters of the Clinton plan questioned McCaughey's claims, including her statements that "the law will prevent you from going outside the system to buy basic health coverage you think is better" and that "doctor[s] can be paid only by the plan, not by you" by pointing to the text of the legislation such as Section 1003: "Nothing in this Act shall be construed as prohibiting... An individual from purchasing any health care services." According to "The Washington Post", the "No Exit" article, the White House response, and the ensuing television and radio interviews
Page 92 of the House health care bill "says specifically that people can't purchase private health insurance after a date certain. [SEP] American Health Care Act of 2017 // Republicans could not afford more than twenty-one members of their own party voting against the bill, and several days before the vote, dissent within the party, largely from the Freedom Caucus, was a significant threat to its passage. Beyond the conservative members of the Freedom Caucus, there was continued opposition to the bill from more moderate Republicans in the House, such as from members of the center-right Tuesday Group, where there were concerns about loss of coverage and the potential of rising insurance costs. Amid the division between the Republicans, the party leadership, which was led by House Speaker Paul
Page 92 of the House health care bill "says specifically that people can't purchase private health insurance after a date certain. [SEP] American Health Care Act of 2017 // companies or state officials – and without having estimates of the cost or the impact on coverage from the Congressional Budget Office". In House committees, Democratic representatives offered more than 100 amendments to the legislation, including amendments that "would have required the law to guarantee no one would lose insurance, hospitals would not see an increase in uncompensated care, the deficit would not increase, taxes would not go up on people making less than $250,000, and that people over 55 years old would not lose benefits or pay higher out-of-pocket costs." Democratic Representative Joe Crowley of New York offered an
Page 92 of the House health care bill "says specifically that people can't purchase private health insurance after a date certain. [SEP] Keep Your Health Plan Act of 2013 // able to use HealthCare.gov to purchase insurance from the federal government. "This summary is based largely on the summary provided by the Congressional Research Service, a public domain source." The Keep Your Health Plan Act of 2013 would permit a health insurance issuer that has in effect health insurance coverage in the individual market as of January 1, 2013, to continue offering such coverage for sale during 2014 outside of a health care exchange established under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. The bill would treat such coverage as a grandfathered health plan for purposes of an individual meeting
Page 92 of the House health care bill "says specifically that people can't purchase private health insurance after a date certain. [SEP] Employee Health Care Protection Act of 2013 // source." H.R. 3522, as amended, would allow insurers to offer group health insurance plans that they offered on any date during 2013 until December 31, 2018, regardless of whether the coverage they provide complies with the market and benefit rules that took effect on January 1, 2014, under the Affordable Care Act (ACA). Groups would be allowed to enroll in such plans even if they had not previously been covered by them, and people enrolled in those plans would be considered to be in compliance with the individual mandate imposed by the ACA, which requires most residents of the United
Page 92 of the House health care bill "says specifically that people can't purchase private health insurance after a date certain. [SEP] American Health Care Act of 2017 // columnist Dana Milbank has made the same argument. Health insurance writer Louise Norris states that Republicans sabotaged the ACA through: The bills would allow states to continue to enroll persons in the ACA Medicaid expansion through January 1, 2020, and would disallow further enrollment after that date. The AHCA will include age-based tax credits for those who earn less than $75,000, or $150,000 for joint filers. The bill would have required insurance companies to cover pre-existing conditions. The AHCA used a standard of 'continuous coverage', defined by a 63-day coverage gap, where an individual who currently has insurance and is
Page 92 of the House health care bill "says specifically that people can't purchase private health insurance after a date certain. [SEP] Continuing Appropriations Act, 2014 // the House of Representatives. The original bill, H.R. 2775, was introduced into the House of Representatives on July 22, 2013 as the No Subsidies Without Verification Act. It sought to declare that no premium tax credits or reductions in cost-sharing for the purchase of qualified health benefit plans under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA, often informally known as "Obamacare") shall be allowed before the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) certifies to Congress that there is a program in place, consistent with PPACA requirements, that verifies the household income and coverage requirements of individuals applying for
A few drops of Visine brand eye drops taken internally will induce uncontrollable diarrhea. [SEP] Visine // but debilitating bouts of explosive diarrhea, akin to that of a laxative. This will not produce explosive diarrhea, but oral administration of Visine can induce dangerous side effects related to Visine's ingredient tetrahydrozoline hydrochloride such as: Anyone ingesting Visine should get medical attention or contact a poison control center immediately. Visine is formulated in several varieties: VISINE A.C. - Astringent/Redness Reliever Eye Drops (Tetrahydrozoline HCl 0.05%, Zinc sulfate 0.25%) VISINE FOR CONTACTS - For Silicone Hydrogel and Hydrophilic lenses VISINE L.R. (Oxymetazoline HCI 0.025%) VISINE TEARS (Glycerin 0.2%, Hypromellose 0.2%, Polyethylene glycol 400 1% - Used AS NEEDED) VISINE-A (Formerly
A few drops of Visine brand eye drops taken internally will induce uncontrollable diarrhea. [SEP] Visine // Visine Visine is a brand of eye drops produced by Johnson & Johnson. Johnson & Johnson acquired Visine, along with Pfizer's entire consumer healthcare portfolio, in December 2006. In some countries it is called Vispring. The active ingredients in the original Visine formulation are potassium chloride and tetrahydrozoline hydrochloride which is a vasoconstrictor, and therefore constricts the eye's superficial blood vessels. Visine is administered topically with 1 to 2 drops applied to the affected eye(s) up to 4 times daily . A common urban legend is that a few drops of Visine in an unsuspecting victim's drink will cause harmless
A few drops of Visine brand eye drops taken internally will induce uncontrollable diarrhea. [SEP] Visine // putting Visine eyedrops in drinking water bottles, threatening severe or fatal injury to drinkers. The urban legend about Visine's explosive diarrhea-inducing capacity is also perpetuated in the movie version of "I Hope They Serve Beer in Hell". In the movie, the main character Tucker Max (played by Matt Czuchry) is making fun of two women at the bar, in which one of them squirts Visine into his beer bottle. This leads to Tucker and an allegedly married woman he leaves the bar with to both have extreme explosive diarrhea. Visine Visine is a brand of eye drops produced by Johnson
A few drops of Visine brand eye drops taken internally will induce uncontrollable diarrhea. [SEP] Tetryzoline // putting a few drops of Visine in an unsuspecting person's beverage. However, the actual results of the prank may be worse, varying from severe nausea and vomiting to seizures or a coma. Diarrhea is not a side effect. In late August 2018, a South Carolina woman, was charged with murdering her husband by putting eye drops containing tetryzoline his drinking water. An autopsy found high concentrations of tetryzoline in his body. Tetryzoline has been used as a date rape drug in a number of cases due to its ability to cause dizziness and unconsciousness. Tetryzoline was used as a plot
A few drops of Visine brand eye drops taken internally will induce uncontrollable diarrhea. [SEP] Motofen // Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for diarrhea, it has also been successfully used by physicians for irritable bowel syndrome (IBS), and hyperhidrosis (chronic, severe sweating). Side effects include drowsiness, nausea, vomiting, burning eyes, blurred vision, dry eyes, dizziness, dry mouth, epigastric distress, and constipation (a paradoxical side effect). Side effects attributed to the atropine content (especially when taken in excess doses, or in children), include: flushing, dryness in many areas, urinary retention, insomnia, headache, anxiety, hyperthermia, and tachycardia. It is these side effects that make it undesirable for most patients to take higher amounts of the medicine. The recommended initial
A few drops of Visine brand eye drops taken internally will induce uncontrollable diarrhea. [SEP] Euphorbia tithymaloides // reduced visual actuity occur. Ingesting even a few seeds can cause violent and persistent vomiting and extreme diarrhea. If latex or root juice gets on the skin, the victim should immediately wash with soap and warm water. If latex or juice gets in the eye, continuous rinsing with fresh water should be the first course of action. Topical steroids are indicated for skin or eye contact. Intravenous fluids are often administered to counteract the fluid loss due to vomiting and diarrhea. The root is known to be a powerful emetic. A proteolytic enzyme known as pedilanthain can be extracted from
A few drops of Visine brand eye drops taken internally will induce uncontrollable diarrhea. [SEP] Eye drop // aerosolized dust particles. Antibiotic eye drops are prescribed when conjunctivitis is caused by bacteria but not when it is caused by a virus. In the case of allergic conjunctivitis, artificial tears can help dilute irritating allergens present in the tear film. These make the eye's pupil widen to maximum, to let an optimetrist have the best view inside the eyeball behind the iris. Afterwards in sunny weather they can cause dazzling and photophobia until the effect of the mydriatic has worn off. In Russia, Tropicamide, a mydriatic eye drop, is used to some degree as an inexpensive recreational drug. Like
A few drops of Visine brand eye drops taken internally will induce uncontrollable diarrhea. [SEP] Emedastine // Emedastine Emedastine (trade name Emadine) is a second generation antihistamine used in eye drops to alleviate the symptoms of allergic conjunctivitis. It acts as a H receptor antagonist. It works by blocking the action of histamine that causes allergic symptoms. It is used in form of the difumarate. The emedastine difumarate is a white, crystalline, water-soluble fine powder. Emedastine eye drops is usually applied twice a day to the affected eye. When the patients with allergic conjunctivitis were treated with 0.05% emedastine difumarate ophthalmic solution for six weeks, the signs and symptoms such as redness, itching and swelling of the
A few drops of Visine brand eye drops taken internally will induce uncontrollable diarrhea. [SEP] Eye drop // other anticholinergics, when taken recreationally, tropicamide acts as a deliriant. According to one reporter, when injected intravenously, as is most often the case, the drug often "brings on suicidal feelings." Syringe designed saline drops (e.g. Wallace Cameron Ultra Saline Minipod) are distributed in modern needle-exchange programmes as they can be used efficiently either by injection or ophthalmic (if the drug is potent in small doses) route of administer which is compared to intravenous use; By demonstration, the elimination of latanoprost acid from plasma is rapid (half-life 17 minutes) after either ophthalmic or intravenous administration. Steroid and antibiotic eye drops may
A few drops of Visine brand eye drops taken internally will induce uncontrollable diarrhea. [SEP] Eye drop // shortness of breath, and in rare occasions, reduced libido and depression. Alpha agonists can cause burning or stinging, fatigue, headache, drowsiness, dry mouth and nose, and also they have a higher likelihood of allergic reaction. Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors may cause stinging, burning, and eye discomfort. Lubricant eye drops may cause some side effects and one should consult a doctor if pain in the eye or changes in vision occur. Furthermore, when redness occurs but lasts more than 3 days, one should immediately consult a doctor. Eye droppers are also used in watercolor painting. Eye drop Eye drops are saline-containing drops
FDA Approves Bayer's Kyleena™ (Levonorgestrel-Releasing Intrauterine System) 19.5 mg for Prevention of Pregnancy for up to Five Years [SEP] Intrauterine device // and releases an even lower dose of levonorgestrel than Kyleena, but is only approved for up to three years. Liletta is more similar to Mirena in both shape and dose of levonorgestrel released; it has currently been approved for usage up to three years. Inert IUDs do not have a bioactive component. They are made of inert materials like stainless steel (such as the stainless steel ring (SSR), a flexible ring of steel coils that can deform to be inserted through the cervix) or plastic (such as the Lippes Loop, which can be inserted through the cervix in a cannula
FDA Approves Bayer's Kyleena™ (Levonorgestrel-Releasing Intrauterine System) 19.5 mg for Prevention of Pregnancy for up to Five Years [SEP] Hormonal IUDs // the previous year. Over 70% of the participants had previously used IUDs. In 2013 Skyla, a lower dose levonorgestrel IUD effective for up to three years, was approved by the FDA. Skyla has a different bleeding pattern than Mirena, with only 6% of women in clinical trials becoming amenorrheic (compared to approximately 20% with Mirena). In 2015, Liletta was approved by the FDA. Liletta has a similar size and levonorgestrel release characteristics as Mirena, and is FDA-approved for three years of use following a study in which six women out of 1,751 conceived while using Liletta. In 2009, Bayer, the
FDA Approves Bayer's Kyleena™ (Levonorgestrel-Releasing Intrauterine System) 19.5 mg for Prevention of Pregnancy for up to Five Years [SEP] Intrauterine device // reduce or even prevent menstrual bleeding. As a result, they are used to treat menorrhagia (heavy menses), once pathologic causes of menorrhagia (such as uterine polyps) have been ruled out. The progestin released by hormonal IUDs primarily acts locally; use of Mirena results in much lower systemic progestin levels than other very-low-dose progestogen only contraceptives. Mirena is approved for use up to five years in the US, though studies support its efficacy for up to seven years. Like Mirena, Kyleena is also approved for up to 5 years but is smaller and releases slightly less levonorgestrel. Skyla is even smaller
FDA Approves Bayer's Kyleena™ (Levonorgestrel-Releasing Intrauterine System) 19.5 mg for Prevention of Pregnancy for up to Five Years [SEP] Hormonal IUDs // they found estradiol levels in Mirena users to be normal. The hormonal IUD is a small 'T'-shaped piece of plastic, which contains levonorgestrel, a type of progestin. The cylinder of the device is coated with a membrane that regulates the release of the drug. Mirena releases the drug at an initial rate of 20 micrograms per day. This declines to a rate of 14 micrograms per day after five years, which is still in the range of clinical effectiveness. Skyla releases 14 micrograms per day and declines to five micrograms per day after three years. Bayer markets Skyla as Jaydess
FDA Approves Bayer's Kyleena™ (Levonorgestrel-Releasing Intrauterine System) 19.5 mg for Prevention of Pregnancy for up to Five Years [SEP] Levonorgestrel-releasing implant // in more than 60 countries and used by more than seven million women. As of 2015 it is approved but not available in the United States. Levonorgestrel-releasing implant is 99%99.95% effective at preventing pregnancy, and is one of the most reliable, though not the most available, forms of birth control. Levonorgestrel-releasing implant prevents pregnancy through multiple methods: by preventing ovulation, which means that no eggs are released for fertilization; by thickening the mucus of the cervix, which prevents sperm from entering; and by thinning the lining of the uterus, which makes implantation of an embryo less likely. The way in
FDA Approves Bayer's Kyleena™ (Levonorgestrel-Releasing Intrauterine System) 19.5 mg for Prevention of Pregnancy for up to Five Years [SEP] Intrauterine device // menstrual bleeding, and these coils are popular. Hormonal IUDs (brand names Mirena, Skyla, Kyleena, and Liletta; referred to as intrauterine systems in the UK) work by releasing a small amount of levonorgestrel, a progestin. Each type varies in size, amount of levonorgestel released, and duration. For example, Mirena and Liletta measure 32x32mm while Skyla and Kyleena measure 28x30mm. The primary mechanism of action is making the inside of the uterus uninhabitable for sperm. They can also thin the endometrial lining and potentially impair implantation but this is not their usual function. Because they thin the endometrial lining, they can also
FDA Approves Bayer's Kyleena™ (Levonorgestrel-Releasing Intrauterine System) 19.5 mg for Prevention of Pregnancy for up to Five Years [SEP] Hormonal IUDs // maker of Mirena, was issued an FDA Warning Letter by the United States Food and Drug Administration for overstating the efficacy, minimizing the risks of use, and making "false or misleading presentations" about the device. From 2000 to 2013, the federal agency received over 70,072 complaints about the device and related adverse effects. As of April 2014, over 1,200 lawsuits have been filed in the United States. Hormonal IUDs Intrauterine device (IUD) with progestogen, sold under the brand name Mirena among others, is a intrauterine device that releases the hormone levonorgestrel. It is used for birth control, heavy menstrual periods,
FDA Approves Bayer's Kyleena™ (Levonorgestrel-Releasing Intrauterine System) 19.5 mg for Prevention of Pregnancy for up to Five Years [SEP] Levonorgestrel // indicating that beginning as late as 120 hours (5 days) after intercourse could be effective. The primary mechanism of action of levonorgestrel as a progestogen-only emergency contraceptive pill is, according to International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics (FIGO), to prevent fertilization by inhibition of ovulation and thickening of cervical mucus. FIGO has stated that: "review of the evidence suggests that LNG [levonorgestreol] ECPs cannot prevent implantation of a fertilized egg. Language on implantation should not be included in LNG ECP product labeling." In November 2013, the European Medicines Agency (EMA) approved a change to the label saying it cannot prevent
FDA Approves Bayer's Kyleena™ (Levonorgestrel-Releasing Intrauterine System) 19.5 mg for Prevention of Pregnancy for up to Five Years [SEP] Levonorgestrel // in these formulations. At very low daily dose of 30 µg, levonorgestrel is used in some progestogen-only pill formulations. Levonorgestrel is the active ingredient in a number of intrauterine devices including Mirena and Skyla. It is also the active ingredient in the birth control implants Norplant and Jadelle. Levonorgestrel is used in emergency contraceptive pills (ECPs), both in a combined Yuzpe regimen which includes estrogen, and as a levonorgestrel-only method. The levonorgestrel-only method uses levonorgestrel 1.5 mg (as a single dose or as two 0.75 mg doses 12 hours apart) taken within 3 days of unprotected sex, with one study
FDA Approves Bayer's Kyleena™ (Levonorgestrel-Releasing Intrauterine System) 19.5 mg for Prevention of Pregnancy for up to Five Years [SEP] Hormonal IUDs // System in 1976. This IUD had a short, 1-year lifespan and never achieved widespread popularity. Following this relative lack of success, Dr. Luukkainen replaced the progesterone with the hormone levonorgestrel to be released over a five-year period, creating what is now Mirena. The Mirena IUD was studied for safety and efficacy in two clinical trials in Finland and Sweden involving 1,169 women who were all between 18 and 35 years of age at the beginning of the trials. The trials included predominantly Caucasian women who had been previously pregnant with no history of ectopic pregnancy or pelvic inflammatory disease within
Nebraska Sen. Bolz to run for 1st Congressional District. [SEP] Kate Bolz // Kate Bolz Kate Bolz is a Democratic member of the Nebraska Legislature, representing the 29th district. Bolz graduated from Palmyra High School in 1997 and from Nebraska Wesleyan University in 2001. She earned a master's degree in Social Work from the University of Michigan in 2005. Bolz was an Emerson National Hunger Fellow, and also worked with the Lutheran Services of America. She later became a policy analyst with Nebraska Appleseed, focusing on a low-income self-sufficiency program. Bolz was elected to the Nebraska Legislature in 2012. Bolz is particularly interested in education issues, tax fairness, opportunities for working families, aging
Nebraska Sen. Bolz to run for 1st Congressional District. [SEP] Kate Bolz // issues, and economic growth. Kate Bolz Kate Bolz is a Democratic member of the Nebraska Legislature, representing the 29th district. Bolz graduated from Palmyra High School in 1997 and from Nebraska Wesleyan University in 2001. She earned a master's degree in Social Work from the University of Michigan in 2005. Bolz was an Emerson National Hunger Fellow, and also worked with the Lutheran Services of America. She later became a policy analyst with Nebraska Appleseed, focusing on a low-income self-sufficiency program. Bolz was elected to the Nebraska Legislature in 2012. Bolz is particularly interested in education issues, tax fairness, opportunities
Nebraska Sen. Bolz to run for 1st Congressional District. [SEP] 2014 United States House of Representatives elections in Nebraska // 1st district encompasses most of the eastern quarter of the state and almost completely envelops the 2nd district. It includes the state capital, Lincoln, as well as the cities of Fremont, Columbus, Norfolk, Beatrice and South Sioux City. The incumbent is Republican Jeff Fortenberry, who has represented the district since 2005. He was re-elected with 68% of the vote in 2012 and the district has a PVI of R+10. Fortenberry considered running for the United States Senate seat being vacated by Republican Mike Johanns, but ultimately announced that he would not do so and would instead seek re-election. He faced
Nebraska Sen. Bolz to run for 1st Congressional District. [SEP] 2012 United States House of Representatives elections in Nebraska // Jeff Fortenberry, who has represented Nebraska's 1st congressional district since 2005, did not run for the U.S. Senate, and is running for re-election. Dennis Parker, a former professional musician who unsuccessfully sought the Republican nomination in the 3rd district in 2010, and Jessica Turek, unsuccessfully challenged Fortenberry in the Republican primary. Korey Reiman, an attorney, sought and won the Democratic nomination to challenge Fortenberry unopposed. Robert Way, an Army combat medic, had planned to run but dropped out of the race in March 2012. (Way's name still appeared on the Democratic primary ballot.) Republican Lee Terry, who has represented Nebraska's
Nebraska Sen. Bolz to run for 1st Congressional District. [SEP] 2016 United States House of Representatives elections in Nebraska // 2nd district. It included the state capital, Lincoln, as well as the cities of Fremont, Columbus, Norfolk, Beatrice and South Sioux City. The incumbent was Republican Jeff Fortenberry, who had represented the district since 2005. He was re-elected with 69% of the vote in 2014. The district had a PVI of R+10. Daniel Wik, a physician who specializes in pain management, was the Democratic nominee. The 2nd district was based in the Omaha–Council Bluffs metropolitan area and included all of Douglas County and the urbanized areas of Sarpy County. The incumbent was Democrat Brad Ashford, who had represented the district
Nebraska Sen. Bolz to run for 1st Congressional District. [SEP] Jeff Fortenberry // district decided to retire. Fortenberry decided to run and won the 7-candidate Republican primary with 39% of the vote. He defeated Curt Bromm (33%), the Speaker of the Nebraska Legislature, and Club for Growth-endorsed businessman Greg Ruehle (21%). In the general election, he defeated State Senator Matt Connealy 54%–43%. He won all but two counties: Thurston and Burt. Fortenberry won re-election to a second term, defeating former Lieutenant Governor Maxine Moul, 58%–42%, winning all but Burt County. He won re-election to a third term, defeating Marine veteran Max Yashirin 70–30%. He was challenged in the Republican primary for the first
Nebraska Sen. Bolz to run for 1st Congressional District. [SEP] 2014 United States House of Representatives elections in Nebraska // Dennis L. Parker and Jessica L. Turek in the Republican primary. Dennis Crawford, a Lincoln attorney and 2nd Associate Chair of the Nebraska Democratic Party, ran unopposed for the Democratic nomination. The 2nd district is based in the Omaha–Council Bluffs metropolitan area and includes all of Douglas County and the urbanized areas of Sarpy County. The incumbent was Republican Lee Terry, who had represented the district since 1999. He was re-elected in 2012 with 51% of the vote in the district that has a PVI of R+4. Terry faced a competitive primary challenge from businessman Dan Frei, who ran to
Nebraska Sen. Bolz to run for 1st Congressional District. [SEP] 2016 United States House of Representatives elections in Nebraska // since 2015. He was elected with 49% of the vote in 2014, defeating Republican incumbent Lee Terry. The district had a PVI of R+4. Scott Kleeb, a businessman who was the nominee for Nebraska's 3rd congressional district in 2006 and for the U.S. Senate in 2008, was speculated to challenge Ashford, a centrist Democrat, from the political left. Former State Senator and Douglas County Commissioner Chip Maxwell, who considered running as an independent against Terry in 2012, and retired United States Air Force Brigadier General Don Bacon ran in the Republican Party primary election. Salesmen Dirk Arneson from Omaha was
Nebraska Sen. Bolz to run for 1st Congressional District. [SEP] 2014 Nebraska elections // election. District 2 incumbent Democrat Anne C. Boyle, who was first elected in 1996, retired rather than run for re-election to a fourth term. The district is based in Omaha. Incumbent Republican Senator Mike Johanns did not run for re-election to a second term. Republicans Sid Dinsdale, Clifton Johnson, Bart McLeay, Shane Osborn and Ben Sasse; Democrats David Domina and Larry Marvin and Independents Jim Jenkins and Todd Watson ran. Republican Ben Sasse defeated Democrat David Domina to win the seat. All of Nebraska's three seats in the United States House of Representatives were up for election in 2014. 2014
Nebraska Sen. Bolz to run for 1st Congressional District. [SEP] Patrick Borchers // Creighton University authored a report, funded by the United States Agency for International Development on a possible resolution of the outstanding expropriation claims against Cuba in the event of a shift in U.S.-Cuba relations. The report recommended the creation of a Cuba-U.S. Tribunal to resolve the claims and suggested that since Cuba lacked sufficient hard currency to resolve the claims, claimants accept other forms of compensation, e.g. tax-free zones or development rights. In 2016, Borchers ran for the Nebraska legislature from the 39th District, a heavily Republican district consisting of the western portion of Douglas County. Under Nebraska's term-limits law,
Charlie Crist Says Rick Scott signed "laws requiring mandatory ultrasounds and restricting access to abortion even in cases of rape or incest. [SEP] Governorship of Rick Perry // Calvary Christian Academy in Fort Worth, an evangelical Christian school. In 2005, Perry signed a parental consent bill into law. Perry has signed legislation prohibiting abortions in the third trimester of pregnancy, and has also signed into law a bill that required abortion providers to offer informational brochures to women considering abortion. In May 2011, Perry signed a "Mandatory Ultrasound Bill" which stipulates that, prior to every abortion, the abortion practitioner or a certified sonographer must perform a sonogram before any sedative or anesthesia is administered. Before every abortion, the abortion practitioner must give an explanation of the sonogram images
Charlie Crist Says Rick Scott signed "laws requiring mandatory ultrasounds and restricting access to abortion even in cases of rape or incest. [SEP] Bob McDonnell // Virginia state legislature, controlled by Republicans, to require a trans-vaginal ultrasound for any woman contemplating an abortion in Virginia. McDonnell initially supported the bill, but backed off after public protests. He persuaded the legislators to pass instead a slightly watered-down version requiring a less invasive abdominal ultrasound before an abortion and exempting women who were pregnant as a result of rape or incest, provided they reported it to the police. The redrafted bill was opposed by pro-choice groups and a minority in the legislature, but McDonnell signed it into law on March 7, 2012. McDonnell was called "Governor Vagina", "Governor
Charlie Crist Says Rick Scott signed "laws requiring mandatory ultrasounds and restricting access to abortion even in cases of rape or incest. [SEP] Rick Hardcastle // which perform abortions. He first sponsored legislation in 2011 to require women in Texas who procure abortions to undergo an ultrasound to be informed of the progress in the development of the child. Then on May 5, 2011, Hardcastle reversed himself and voted against the compulsory ultrasound, which the House still approved, 94-41. He voted for legislation, passed 102-40 in the House and signed by Governor Perry, which authorizes a county, when determining eligibility for a "sponsored alien" under the Indigent Health Care and Treatment Act, to include in the resources of the applicant any additional incomes of their spouse
Charlie Crist Says Rick Scott signed "laws requiring mandatory ultrasounds and restricting access to abortion even in cases of rape or incest. [SEP] North Carolina Women's Right to Know Act // change in the people; this is a change in the leadership," he said". "An Oklahoma County judge has permanently blocked a state law that requires women seeking abortions to have an ultrasound and listen to a detailed description of the fetus before prior to the abortion. District Judge Brian Dixon handed down an order Wednesday ruling that the law is unconstitutional and unenforceable. The order says the statute passed in 2010 is an unconstitutional special law because it addresses only patients and physicians concerning abortions and not other medical care. Enforcement of the law has been blocked since shortly after
Charlie Crist Says Rick Scott signed "laws requiring mandatory ultrasounds and restricting access to abortion even in cases of rape or incest. [SEP] War on Women // criticism when he said of his state's new mandatory transvaginal ultrasound law that "You can't make anybody watch, okay? Because you just have to close your eyes. As long as it's on the exterior and not the interior." In June 2013, Representative Trent Franks of Arizona, passed a national bill in the House Judiciary Committee that would ban abortions after the 20th week of pregnancy. The bill did not include exceptions for rape, incest or health of the mother. In responding to the bill's lack of exception for rape victims, Franks stated that "the incidence of rape resulting in pregnancy
Charlie Crist Says Rick Scott signed "laws requiring mandatory ultrasounds and restricting access to abortion even in cases of rape or incest. [SEP] Rick Womick // ultrasound. The bill would also require a waiting period of at least 24 hours before getting the abortion. According to Womick, the bill is "about protecting the emotional and physical health of a woman." In 2015, he sent a letter to county clerks in Tennessee asking them to ignore the United States Supreme Court's ruling in favour of same-sex marriage. He is involved with the Boy Scouts of America, where he is an Eagle Scout. He is also a member of the Rutherford County Chamber of Commerce, the National Rifle Association, the Air Force Association, the Allied Pilots Association, Focus
Charlie Crist Says Rick Scott signed "laws requiring mandatory ultrasounds and restricting access to abortion even in cases of rape or incest. [SEP] Scott Randolph // before terminating a pregnancy, telling a story about how viewing ultrasounds after his wife had miscarried was a traumatic experiencing, crying while he told the story. He was later criticized during a debate on union reforms, in which he argued that Republicans were against regulations, except when it came to social issues. He sarcastically suggested that his wife "incorporate her uterus" to stop Republican efforts to limit her reproductive health choices, at which point the Speaker of the House stepped in, informing Randolph that his choice of language was inappropriate, as he referenced a body part, and that he should
Charlie Crist Says Rick Scott signed "laws requiring mandatory ultrasounds and restricting access to abortion even in cases of rape or incest. [SEP] Scott Walker (politician) // 2013, Walker signed a bill requiring abortion providers in Wisconsin to have admitting privileges at a hospital within 30 miles. The law was found unconstitutional by the Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals in 2015. The court found the medical justifications for such restrictions "nonexistent" and said they "cannot be taken seriously as a measure to improve women's health." In June 2016, the Supreme Court of the United States ruled on "Whole Woman's Health v. Hellerstedt", and struck down admitting privileges and other similar restrictions, finding that they were an unconstitutional "undue burden" on women. The day after delivering this decision,
Charlie Crist Says Rick Scott signed "laws requiring mandatory ultrasounds and restricting access to abortion even in cases of rape or incest. [SEP] Rob Bell (Virginia politician) // except in cases of rape and incest, wherein police reports must be presented. While massive silent protests outside the Virginia state capitol initially resulted in the bill’s patron holding off on the vote on the bill, it was passed the next day. On March 1, 2012, Bell voted in favor of an amended version of the bill requiring women to undergo an transabdominal ultrasound prior to an abortion if written consent for a transvaginal ultrasound is not obtained, and no ultrasound at all if the physician deems it impossible to determine fetal age through the prescribed means. During the 2012
Charlie Crist Says Rick Scott signed "laws requiring mandatory ultrasounds and restricting access to abortion even in cases of rape or incest. [SEP] Scott Wagner // after 20 weeks of pregnancy. Governor Wolf vetoed the bill, and has committed to vetoing similar bills in the future. Wagner has made no such commitment. Wagner later came out in support of a U.S. House bill that would ban abortion as soon as the fetus has a heartbeat. Wagner has also cosponsored bills that would prevent the use of state funds for non-abortion services, such as birth control and cancer screening, at Planned Parenthood. On October 2, 2018, the National Rifle Association endorsed Wagner in his bid for governor. The NRA had given him an A rating in the
UN: Nearly a half-billion in Asia-Pacific still going hungry. [SEP] World Summit on Food Security 2009 // are 1 billion chronically hungry people in the world and recent reports say this number could grow by 100 million in 2009. Food prices remain stubbornly high in developing countries, while the global economic crisis is aggravating the situation by affecting jobs and deepening poverty. The Summit adopted unanimously a declaration committing all the nations of the world to eradicate hunger at the earliest possible date. It pledged to substantially increase aid to agriculture in developing countries, so that the world's 1 billion hungry can become more self-sufficient. The declaration confirmed the current target for reducing hunger by half by
UN: Nearly a half-billion in Asia-Pacific still going hungry. [SEP] Hunger // extreme hunger subsided for many of the world's people. According to the WFP some statistics are that, "Some 795 million people in the world do not have enough food to lead a healthy active life. That's about one in nine people on earth. The vast majority of the world's hungry people live in developing countries, where 12.9 percent of the population is undernourished." Until 2006, the average international price of food had been largely stable for several decades. In the closing months of 2006, however, prices began to rise rapidly. By 2008, rice had tripled in price in some regions,
UN: Nearly a half-billion in Asia-Pacific still going hungry. [SEP] Malnutrition // a year. The data from the 2015 report shows that Hunger levels have dropped 27% since 2000. Fifty two countries remain at serious or alarming levels. In addition to the latest statistics on Hunger and Food Security, the GHI also features different special topics each year. The 2015 report include an article on conflict and food security. There were 815 million undernourished people in the world in 2017. This was 176 million fewer people than in 1990 when it was 991 million undernourished people. This is despite the world's farmers producing enough food to feed around 12 billion people –
UN: Nearly a half-billion in Asia-Pacific still going hungry. [SEP] Malnutrition // who have extreme hunger by 2015. As of 2012, this target appeared difficult to achieve, due in part to persistent inflation in food prices. However, in late 2012 the UN's Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) stated it is still possible to hit the target with sufficient effort. In 2013, the "FAO" estimated that 842 million people are undernourished (12% of the global population). Malnutrition is a cause of death for more than 3.1 million children under 5 every year. UNICEF estimates 300 million children go to bed hungry each night; and that 8000 children under the age of 5 are
UN: Nearly a half-billion in Asia-Pacific still going hungry. [SEP] Hunger // However, in late 2012 the UN's Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) stated it is still possible to hit the target with sufficient effort. In 2013, the "FAO" estimated that 842 million people are undernourished (12% of the global population). Malnutrition is a cause of death for more than 3.1 million children under 5 every year. UNICEF estimates 300 million children go to bed hungry each night; and that 8000 children under the age of 5 are estimated to die of malnutrition every day. The physical sensation of hunger is related to contractions of the stomach muscles. These contractions—sometimes called hunger
UN: Nearly a half-billion in Asia-Pacific still going hungry. [SEP] World population // energy reserves and food shortages would create a "perfect storm" of shortages of food, water, and energy by 2030. According to a 2009 report by the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), the world will have to produce 70% more food by 2050 to feed a projected extra 2.3 billion people. The observed figures for 2007 showed an actual increase in absolute numbers of undernourished people in the world, with 923 million undernourished in 2007, versus 832 million in 1995. The 2009 FAO estimates showed an even more dramatic increase, to 1.02 billion. A number of scientists have argued
UN: Nearly a half-billion in Asia-Pacific still going hungry. [SEP] Josette Sheeran // to meeting the UN Millennium Development Goal of halving hunger and poverty by 2015. "Those pictures of children with swollen bellies will be a thing of history." The World Food Programme, founded in 1963, last year provided food to more than 90 million poor people in more than 80 countries worldwide. Its annual budget was US$1.7 billion in 1993. In 2008, it had a budget of US$3 billion and employed 10,000 people in 78 countries. In April 2008, Sheeran attracted worldwide attention with a speech in London warning about an impending worldwide food crisis, which she likened to a "silent
UN: Nearly a half-billion in Asia-Pacific still going hungry. [SEP] Malnutrition // cooperation suggested it might be possible to substantially reduce the number of people suffering from hunger. While progress was uneven, by 2000 the threat of extreme hunger subsided for many of the world's people. According to the WFP some statistics are that, "Some 795 million people in the world do not have enough food to lead a healthy active life. That's about one in nine people on earth. The vast majority of the world's hungry people live in developing countries, where 12.9 percent of the population is undernourished." Until 2006, the average international price of food had been largely stable
UN: Nearly a half-billion in Asia-Pacific still going hungry. [SEP] Global Hunger Index // essay in the 2018 GHI report examines forced migration and hunger—two closely intertwined challenges that affect some of the poorest and most conflict-ridden regions of the world. Globally, there are an estimated 68.5 million displaced people, including 40.0 million internally displaced people, 25.4 million refugees, and 3.1 million asylum seekers. For these people, hunger may be both a cause and a consequence of forced migration. Support for food-insecure displaced people needs to be improved in four key areas: • recognizing and addressing hunger and displacement as political problems; • adopting more holistic approaches to protracted displacement settings involving development support;
UN: Nearly a half-billion in Asia-Pacific still going hungry. [SEP] Human rights and development // than $1 a day comparable to the "Right to adequate standard of living"; 2) to achieve full employment and decent work for all is comparable to the "Right to work" and 3) to halve by 2015 the proportion of people who suffer from hunger, comparable to the "Right to food", and correspondingly rights to life and health. South-eastern Asia is the first developing region to reach the hunger reduction target ahead of 2015. Undernourished people in the total population of the region decreased from 29.6% in 1990-1992 to 10.9% in 2010-2012. However, globally the slowing of growth brings continual job
New York hospital sends some 'borderline' COVID-19 patients home with oxygen monitors. [SEP] Wyckoff Heights Medical Center // perform an artificial disc implant into a spine. In 2006 Wyckoff Heights Medical Center received top honors from HSS Incorporated (a medical coding software developer) for the hospital's medical coding practices, as part of the third-annual "Top 200 Coding Hospital Report". Asthmapolis Wyckoff Heights Medical Center is the first New York area hospital to use Asthmapolis. Marketed as the BreathEasy program, the hospital provides participants with the smartphone application and a snap-on sensor that tracks how often participants use their asthma inhaler. Wyckoff physicians receive immediate notification of a patients worsening condition. The program is offered through the hospital's pediatric
New York hospital sends some 'borderline' COVID-19 patients home with oxygen monitors. [SEP] Polysomnography // return the device to the health care provider. The provider would retrieve data from the device and could make assumptions based on the information given. For example, series of drastic blood oxygen desaturations during night periods may indicate some form of respiratory event (apnea). The equipment monitors, at a minimum, oxygen saturation. More sophisticated home study devices have most of the monitoring capability of their sleep lab technician run counterparts, and can be complex and time-consuming to set up for self-monitoring. After the test is completed a "scorer" analyzes the data by reviewing the study in 30-second "epochs". The score
New York hospital sends some 'borderline' COVID-19 patients home with oxygen monitors. [SEP] Polysomnography // completed and the patient is discharged home by 7 a.m. unless a Multiple Sleep Latency Test (MSLT) is to be done during the day to test for excessive daytime sleepiness. Most recently, health care providers may prescribe home studies to enhance patient comfort and reduce expense. The patient is given instructions after a screening tool is used, uses the equipment at home and returns it the next day. Most screening tools consist of an airflow measuring device (thermistor) and a blood oxygen monitoring device (pulse oximeter). The patient would sleep with the screening device for one to several days, then
New York hospital sends some 'borderline' COVID-19 patients home with oxygen monitors. [SEP] Masimo // 2012, Masimo began offering ultra-compact mainstream and sidestream capnography as well as multigas analyzers for end-tidal carbon dioxide (CO), nitrous oxide (NO), oxygen (O), and anesthetic agents, for use in the operating room, procedural sedation, and in intensive care units (ICU). A multi-center study at Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center, University Medical Center (Tucson, Arizona), and Children's Medical Center (Dallas), found that respiratory rate measured from noninvasive, acoustic monitoring had similar accuracy and precision as nasal capnography, the current standard of care when used in pediatric patients. On December 1, 2014, Masimo announced FDA 510(k) clearance of Radius-7 for the
New York hospital sends some 'borderline' COVID-19 patients home with oxygen monitors. [SEP] Oxygen concentrator // hospitals, disaster facilities). Since the early 2000s, a number of companies have produced portable oxygen concentrators. Typically, these devices produce the equivalent of one to five liters per minute of continuous oxygen flow and they use some version of pulse flow or "demand flow" to deliver oxygen only when the patient is inhaling. They can also provide pulses of oxygen either to provide higher intermittent flows or to reduce the power consumption. Research into oxygen concentration is ongoing and modern techniques suggest that the amount of adsorbent required by a medical oxygen concentrators can be potentially "reduced by a factor
New York hospital sends some 'borderline' COVID-19 patients home with oxygen monitors. [SEP] Oxygen concentrator // commercial airlines, users of aircraft without [[cabin pressurization]] need oxygen concentrators which are able to deliver enough flowrate even at high altitudes, such as OXYFLY. Usually, "demand" or pulse-flow oxygen concentrators are not used by patients while they sleep. There have been problems with the oxygen concentrators not being able to detect when the sleeping patient is inhaling. Some larger portable oxygen concentrators are designed to operate in continuous-flow mode in addition to pulse-flow mode. Continuous-flow mode is considered safe for night use when coupled with a [[Continuous Positive Airway Pressure|CPAP]] machine. Common models retail at around $600. Leasing arrangements
New York hospital sends some 'borderline' COVID-19 patients home with oxygen monitors. [SEP] Monitoring (medicine) // ones mentioned above, and most commonly include at least blood pressure and heart rate, and preferably also pulse oximetry and respiratory rate. Multimodal monitors that simultaneously measure and display the relevant vital parameters are commonly integrated into the bedside monitors in critical care units, and the anesthetic machines in operating rooms. These allow for continuous monitoring of a patient, with medical staff being continuously informed of the changes in general condition of a patient. Some monitors can even warn of pending fatal cardiac conditions before visible signs are noticeable to clinical staff, such as atrial fibrillation or premature ventricular contraction
New York hospital sends some 'borderline' COVID-19 patients home with oxygen monitors. [SEP] Portable oxygen concentrator // and frequent deliveries. Beginning in the 2000s, manufacturers developed portable versions. Since their initial development, reliability has been improved, and POCs now produce between one and six liters per minute (LPM) of oxygen depending the breathing rate of the patient. The latest models of intermittent flow only products weighed in the range of from 2.8 to 9.9 pounds (1.3 to 4.5 kg) and continuous flow (CF) units were between 10 and 20 pounds (4.5 to 9.0 kg). POCs operate on the same principle as a home concentrator, pressure swing adsorption. The basic set up of a POC is a miniaturized
New York hospital sends some 'borderline' COVID-19 patients home with oxygen monitors. [SEP] Sri Sathya Sai Institute of Higher Medical Sciences, Puttaparthi // fully equipped top-of-the-line flat panel catheterisation labs with hemodynamic recorders. A 16 bedded Critical Care Unit (CCU) is equipped with patient monitors networked with a central station, ventilators, infusion pumps, ECG and echo machines, defibrillators, portable X-Ray and imaging units. Patients mostly belong to economically weaker sections of the society, who could not have afforded the cost of the treatment elsewhere. The CTVS department in the hospital conducts all types of cardiac surgeries, except heart transplants. One-third of the cardiac surgeries are congenital heart diseases, one-third valve replacements/repair and the remaining, coronary revascularizations with 90% of them being off-pump procedures.
New York hospital sends some 'borderline' COVID-19 patients home with oxygen monitors. [SEP] New York Rescue Workers Detoxification Project // passed out and was taken to an emergency room with severe asthma, later saying that he had been asked to stop using his inhaler. According to the clinic's associate medical director, Dr. Kawabena Nyamekye, participants were being helped off medication at their own insistence, not at the request of Downtown Medical. A former worker at Downtown Medical told reporters that staff were discouraged from calling for an ambulance even in an emergency, and that one of them had been required to break off contact with her boyfriend because he had left Scientology. A spokesman responded that the clinic had "a
Fitness experts separate folklore from fact. [SEP] Fitness culture // Fitness culture Fitness culture is a sociocultural phenomenon which refers to the culture surrounding physical exercises. It is usually associated with "gym culture", as doing physical exercises in locations such as gyms, wellness centres and health clubs is a popular activity. An international survey found that more than 27% of world total adult population attends fitness centres, and that 61% of regular exercisers are currently doing "gym-type" activities. In ancient Greece and Rome, a public place devoted to athletes training, called "gymnasion" (plural: gymnasia) for Greeks and "palaestra" (plural: palaestrae) for Romans existed in cities. Fitness was regarded as a
Fitness experts separate folklore from fact. [SEP] MythBusters (2007 season) // fables while Kari, Grant and Tory break out the defibrillator for some electrifying action. In these two myths, the team tests whether a defibrillator can burn someone if the electricity arcs with... The Build team tested two myths that revolved around denim jeans. This episode was "dedicated to Mr. Wizard", Don Herbert, known for his Mr. Wizard science programs, which ran from 1951 to 1990. It ran for 2 hours. The MythBusters tested the following myths involving great white sharks. This is a retest of the old Jet Taxi myth, because the MythBusters were unable to obtain a full-sized plane
Fitness experts separate folklore from fact. [SEP] American Indian creationism // kind than what is summarized in the above sections on legend and oral tradition. His book "Red Earth" challenges scientific fact and claims that the findings of research on human evolution are myth, a "hilarious farce" (p. 182). Legends and traditional stories are not anti-scientific because they are from the realm of literature and verbal art. In contrast, Deloria alleges that Native American creation stories and oral tradition actually contradict scientific research. "Red earth" describes a time when he made a trip back to his reservation and delivered a speech. Deloria suggested that a stegosaurus sighting by the Sioux people
Fitness experts separate folklore from fact. [SEP] MythBusters // Truth Behind 30 of the Most Perplexing Urban Legends of All Time" () also gives a list of a dozen myths that are unlikely to be explored (although four were eventually tested). Savage has commented that it is difficult to test myths that require them to disprove general claims because of the inherent difficulty in disproving a negative. As a result, when they do pursue such myths, they typically go about disproving specific methods that claim to achieve results. Additionally, certain myths are not tested due to various objections by Discovery Channel or their advertisers, most notably myths pertaining to
Fitness experts separate folklore from fact. [SEP] Weight training // legend has it that wrestler Milo of Croton trained by carrying a newborn calf on his back every day until it was fully grown. Another Greek, the physician Galen, described strength training exercises using the halteres (an early form of dumbbell) in the 2nd century. Ancient Greek sculptures also depict lifting feats. The weights were generally stones, but later gave way to dumbbells. The dumbbell was joined by the barbell in the later half of the 19th century. Early barbells had hollow globes that could be filled with sand or lead shot, but by the end of the century these
Fitness experts separate folklore from fact. [SEP] Rickey Henderson // training camps. In 2010, he worked on base stealing (most notably with Rajai Davis and Coco Crisp) and outfield drills. "Sports Illustrated"'s Tom Verducci wrote in 2003, "There are certain figures in American history who have passed into the realm of cultural mythology, as if reality could no longer contain their stories: Johnny Appleseed. Wild Bill Hickok. Davy Crockett. Rickey Henderson. They exist on the sometimes narrow margin between Fact and Fiction." Henderson was known for referring to himself in the third person. One unconfirmed story reports seeing him standing naked in front of a mirror before a game, practicing
Fitness experts separate folklore from fact. [SEP] Folklore of the United States // tales. Many stories have developed since the founding long ago to become a part of America's folklore and cultural awareness, and non-Native American folklore especially includes any narrative which has contributed to the shaping of American culture and belief systems. These narratives may be true and may be false or may be a little true and a little false; the veracity of the stories is not a determining factor. Christopher Columbus, as a hero and symbol to the then immigrants, is an important figure in the pantheon of American myth. His status, not unlike most American icons, is representative not
Fitness experts separate folklore from fact. [SEP] Miranda Esmonde-White // are easy to do, unlike pilates where people try for technically correct moves. She realized that her technique emphasized eccentric movement, something that was known to sports medicine but had been sometimes considered wasted effort. It took a while for the idea of strengthening the muscular system by lengthening muscles to catch on in fitness circles, but eventually she prevailed, asking her students to exercise for about 20 or 30 minutes two or three times a week. She approached PBS with a series idea in 1999, and her technique has been a successful television program ever since. "Classical Stretch" is
Fitness experts separate folklore from fact. [SEP] Running in Ancient Greece // with weights in each hand. This practice helped improve arm strength, which is beneficial for running, throwing the javelin, swimming, and martial arts. Lucian, an ancient Greek philosopher, postulated another principle. He believed athletes should always train in "exuberated conditions." His idea was that training should take place outdoors in the sun every day of the year. He thought that the body should be beautiful, tanned, and lean to perform its best. During workouts, he believed athletes should work as hard as possible. When training in the gymnasium, his idea was that one should not run or exercise on the
Fitness experts separate folklore from fact. [SEP] Archaeoastronomy // von Dechend believed that the old mythological stories handed down from antiquity were not random fictitious tales but were accurate depictions of celestial cosmology clothed in tales to aid their oral transmission. The chaos, monsters and violence in ancient myths are representative of the forces that shape each age. They believed that ancient myths are the remains of preliterate astronomy that became lost with the rise of the Greco-Roman civilization. Santillana and von Dechend in their book "Hamlet's Mill, An Essay on Myth and the Frame of Time" (1969) clearly state that ancient myths have no historical or factual basis
Donald Trump Says the USMCA is the “biggest trade deal ever made.” [SEP] 2017 Riyadh summit // on May 20, where he met with King Salman. Trump then traveled to the Murabba Palace, where the King awarded him the Collar of Abdulaziz Al Saud. Trump later visited the National Museum of Saudi Arabia. In the evening, Trump and the U.S. delegation took part in the traditional ardah sword dance. On May 20, 2017, U.S. President Donald Trump signed a US$350 billion arms deal with the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. The arms deal was the largest in world history. The transaction included tanks, combat ships missile defence systems, as well as radar, communications and cybersecurity technology. The transfer
Donald Trump Says the USMCA is the “biggest trade deal ever made.” [SEP] 2018 China–United States trade war // actions against unfair competition by China. The 2018 G20 summit concluded the multilateral trading system "is currently falling short of its objectives... necessary reform of the WTO to improve its functioning." President Trump signed the modified U.S.–Korea Free Trade Agreement in New York city on September 24th, 2018 and then signed the revised U.S.–Mexico–Canada Agreement in Buenos Aires, Argentina on November 30th. The USMCA contains an article 32.10 which aims at preventing any non-market economy, especially market-distorting China, to take advantage of the agreement. Jorge Guajardo, former Mexican ambassador to China said "One thing the Chinese have had to acknowledge
Donald Trump Says the USMCA is the “biggest trade deal ever made.” [SEP] United States–Mexico–Canada Agreement // U.S. midterm elections, that the Democrats' increased power in the House of Representatives might interfere with the passage of the USMCA agreement. The next chair of the United States House Committee on Ways and Means Bill Pascrell argued for changes to the USMCA to enable it to pass Congress. Republicans opposed USMCA provisions requiring labor rights for LGBTQ and pregnant workers. Forty Congressional Republicans urged Trump against signing a deal that contained "the unprecedented inclusion of sexual orientation and gender identity language"; as a result, Trump ultimately signed a revised version that committed each nation only to "policies that it
Donald Trump Says the USMCA is the “biggest trade deal ever made.” [SEP] Saudi Arabia–United States relations // documents included letters of interest and letters of intent and no actual contracts. US defense stocks reached all-time highs after Donald J. Trump announced a $110 billion arms deal to Saudi Arabia. Saudi Arabia signed billions of dollars of deals with U.S. arms producers and energy companies, including Lockheed Martin, Boeing, Raytheon, General Dynamics, Northrop Grumman, General Electric, Exxon Mobil, Halliburton, Honeywell, McDermott International, Jacobs Engineering Group, Rowan Companies, National Oilwell Varco, Nabors Industries, Weatherford International, Schlumberger and Dow Chemical. In August, 2018, a laser-guided Mark 82 bomb sold by the U.S. and built by Lockheed Martin was used in
Donald Trump Says the USMCA is the “biggest trade deal ever made.” [SEP] Trump tariffs // U.S. has ever signed." He also called Trans-Pacific Partnership "the death blow for American manufacturing" and that it would "put the interests of foreign countries above our own." On November 21, 2016, in a video message, Trump introduced an economic strategy of "putting America first", stating that he would negotiate "fair, bilateral trade deals that bring jobs and industry back onto American shores." On January 23, 2017, three days after becoming president, Trump withdrew the United States from the politically divisive Trans-Pacific Partnership believing that the agreement would "undermine" the U.S. economy and sovereignty. Trump has also indicated a desire
Donald Trump Says the USMCA is the “biggest trade deal ever made.” [SEP] United States–Korea Free Trade Agreement // with a major Asian economy and the largest trade deal since the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) in 1993. For South Korea, the KORUS FTA is second in size only to the FTA signed with the European Union and dwarfs recent FTAs signed with Chile, Singapore, the European Free Trade Area and the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN). While the treaty was signed on June 30, 2007, ratification was slowed when President George W. Bush's fast-track trade authority expired and a Democratic Party-controlled Congress expressed objections to the treaty related to concerns over bilateral trade in automobiles and
Donald Trump Says the USMCA is the “biggest trade deal ever made.” [SEP] 2017 United States–Saudi Arabia arms deal // 2017 United States–Saudi Arabia arms deal On May 20, 2017, U.S. President Donald Trump and Saudi Arabia's King Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud signed a series of letters of intent for the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia to purchase arms from the United States totaling US$110 billion immediately, and $350 billion over 10 years. The intended purchases include tanks, combat ships, missile defense systems, as well as radar, communications and cybersecurity technology. The transfer was widely seen as a counterbalance against the influence of Iran in the region and a "significant" and "historic" expansion of United States relations with Saudi Arabia.
Donald Trump Says the USMCA is the “biggest trade deal ever made.” [SEP] Chevrolet Blazer (crossover) // top of the decision to produce the Blazer in Mexico, reinforces a belief that the just-agreed USMCA deal made by President Trump doesn't correct the soon-to-be-replaced NAFTA's problems: "Before I approve any trade agreement I am going to make sure we're writing trade agreements that level the playing field for the working men and women of this country, and that we're keeping jobs here, not making it easier to keep shipping jobs overseas... This GM announcement gives me greater concern, not less." Chevrolet Blazer (crossover) The Chevrolet Blazer is an upcoming 5-seat mid-size crossover SUV produced by General Motors brand
Donald Trump Says the USMCA is the “biggest trade deal ever made.” [SEP] United States–Mexico–Canada Agreement // considered significant because it could set a precedent for future trade agreements. The trade agreement was signed on November 30, 2018 by all three parties at the G20 summit in Buenos Aires, as expected. Each country must now follow its domestic procedures before the agreement can be ratified and thus take effect. Growing objections within the member states about U.S. trade policy and various aspects of the USMCA have affected the signing and ratification process. Mexico stated they would not sign the USMCA if steel and aluminum tariffs remained. There was speculation, after the results of the Nov. 6, 2018
Donald Trump Says the USMCA is the “biggest trade deal ever made.” [SEP] United States–Korea Free Trade Agreement // 25,000 vehicles to 50,000 that are only required to meet U.S. safety regulations instead of South Korean regulations. A cap will also be placed on steel exports from South Korea to the United States, though South Korea will remain exempt from the 25% steel tariff the Trump administration placed on most other nations. On the 24th of September, 2018 U.S. President Donald Trump and South Korea's President Moon Jae-in signed the new agreement at the Lute Palace hotel in New York City. Opponents make the following arguments: Advocates make the following arguments: As it does in the United States, the
Women in the United States are 50 percent more likely to die from pregnancy or childbirth-related causes compared to their mothers. [SEP] Childbirth // U.S. rate has risen to 26.4. By comparison, the United Kingdom ranks second highest at 9.2 and Finland is the safest at 3.8. Furthermore, for every one of the 700 to 900 U.S. woman who die each year during pregnancy or childbirth, 70 experience significant complications such as hemorrhage and organ failure, totaling more than 1 percent of all births. Compared to other developed nations, the United States also has high infant mortality rates. The Trust for America's Health reports that as of 2011, about one third of American births have some complications; many are directly related to the mother's
Women in the United States are 50 percent more likely to die from pregnancy or childbirth-related causes compared to their mothers. [SEP] Maternal death // women die from pregnancy or childbirth related causes. According to the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) 2017 report, this is equivalent to "about one woman every two minutes and for every woman who dies, 20 or 30 encounter complications with serious or long-lasting consequences. Most of these deaths and injuries are entirely preventable." UNFPA estimated that 303,000 women died of pregnancy or childbirth related causes in 2015. These causes range from severe bleeding to obstructed labour, all of which have highly effective interventions . As women have gained access to family planning and skilled birth attendance with backup emergency obstetric
Women in the United States are 50 percent more likely to die from pregnancy or childbirth-related causes compared to their mothers. [SEP] Maternal death // be pregnancy-related deaths. Since 2016, ProPublica and NPR investigated factors that led to the increase in maternal mortality in the United States. They reported that the "rate of life-threatening complications for new mothers in the U.S. has more than doubled in two decades due to pre-existing conditions, medical errors and unequal access to care." According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, c. 4 million women who give birth in the US annually, over 50,000 a year, experience "dangerous and even life-threatening complications." According to a report by the United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, in 1993
Women in the United States are 50 percent more likely to die from pregnancy or childbirth-related causes compared to their mothers. [SEP] Childbirth // retrieved in 2015, since 1990 there has been a 44 per cent decline in the maternal death rate. However, according to 2015 figures 830 women die every day from causes related to pregnancy or childbirth and for every woman who dies, 20 or 30 encounter injuries, infections or disabilities. Most of these deaths and injuries are preventable. In 2008, noting that each year more than 100,000 women die of complications of pregnancy and childbirth and at least 7 million experience serious health problems while 50 million more have adverse health consequences after childbirth, the World Health Organization (WHO) has urged
Women in the United States are 50 percent more likely to die from pregnancy or childbirth-related causes compared to their mothers. [SEP] Maternal death // nations, antenatal care has increased from 65% in 1990 to 83% in 2012. It was estimated that in 2015, a total of 303,000 women died due to causes related to pregnancy or childbirth. The majority of these causes were either severe bleeding, sepsis, eclampsia, labor that had some type of obstruction, and consequences from unsafe abortions. All of these causes are either preventable or have highly effective interventions. Another factor that contributes to the maternal mortality rate that have opportunities for prevention are access to prenatal care for women who are pregnant. Women who do not receive prenatal care are
Women in the United States are 50 percent more likely to die from pregnancy or childbirth-related causes compared to their mothers. [SEP] Maternal death // on pregnancy-related deaths were as follows: 12.4 deaths per 100,000 live births for white women, 40.0 for black women, and 17.8 for women of other races. This shows that black women have between three and four times greater chance of dying from pregnancy-related issues. It has also been shown that one of the major contributors to maternal health disparities within the United States is the growing rate of non-communicable diseases. It is unclear why pregnancy-related deaths in the United States have increased. It seems that the use of computerized data servers by the states and changes in the way deaths
Women in the United States are 50 percent more likely to die from pregnancy or childbirth-related causes compared to their mothers. [SEP] Murder of pregnant women // had not been pregnant in the year previous to their death, and accounted for 6.4% of deaths in this group. The second leading cause of pregnancy-associated death, heart disease, accounted for 19%. A study using data from the District of Columbia also found that homicide was the leading cause of pregnancy-associated death. A CDC study reported that "the overall pregnancy-associated homicide ratio was 1.7 deaths per 100 000 live births", and that homicide was not the leading cause of pregnancy-associated death, though it was still highlighted as among the leading causes. However, Horon and Cheng argued that the CDC's study
Women in the United States are 50 percent more likely to die from pregnancy or childbirth-related causes compared to their mothers. [SEP] Maternal health // make sure that a trained provider with midwifery skills is present at every birth, that transport is available to referral services, and that quality emergency obstetric care is available. In 2008 342,900 women died while pregnant or from childbirth worldwide. Although a high number, this was a significant drop from 1980, when 526,300 women died from the same causes. This improvement was caused by lower pregnancy rates in some countries; higher income, which improves nutrition and access to health care; more education for women; and the increasing availability of "skilled birth attendants" — people with training in basic and emergency
Women in the United States are 50 percent more likely to die from pregnancy or childbirth-related causes compared to their mothers. [SEP] Maternal mortality in the United States // the OECD or other repositories that collect data internationally. In response to the MacDorman study, revealing the "inability, or unwillingness, of states and the federal government to track maternal deaths", ProPublica and NPR found that in 2016 alone, between 700 and 900 women died from pregnancy- and childbirth-related causes. In "Lost Mothers" they published stories of some of women who died. They ranged in age from 16 to 43. Healthy People is a federal organization that is managed by the Office of Disease Prevention and Health Promotion (ODPHP) at the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). In 2010,
Women in the United States are 50 percent more likely to die from pregnancy or childbirth-related causes compared to their mothers. [SEP] Maternal death // between three and four times more likely to die from complications resulting from pregnancy or delivery than those who receive prenatal care. For women in the United States, 25% do not receive the recommended number of prenatal visits, and this number increases for women among specific demographic populations: 32% for African American women and 41% for American Indian and Alaska Native women. Four elements are essential to maternal death prevention, according to UNFPA. First, prenatal care. It is recommended that expectant mothers receive at least four antenatal visits to check and monitor the health of mother and fetus. Second, skilled
Expert Panel Reaffirms Need for Colon Cancer Screen Beginning at Age 50 [SEP] Colorectal cancer // 75 or those with a life expectancy of less than 10 years, screening is not recommended. It takes about 10 years after screening for one out of a 1000 people to benefit. The USPSTF list seven potential strategies for screening, with the most important thing being that at least one of these strategies is appropriately used. In Canada, among those 50 to 75 years old at normal risk, fecal immunochemical testing or FOBT is recommended every two years or sigmoidoscopy every 10 years. Colonoscopy is less preferred. Some countries have national colorectal screening programs which offer FOBT screening for all
Expert Panel Reaffirms Need for Colon Cancer Screen Beginning at Age 50 [SEP] Fecal occult blood // suspects colon cancer, more rigorous investigation is necessary, whether or not the test is positive. In 2006, the Australian Government introduced the National Bowel Cancer Program which has been updated several times since; targeted screening will be done of all Australians aged from 50 to 74 by 2020. Cancer Council Australia recommended that FOBT should be done every two years. People over 50 not yet eligible for the national program can arrange with their doctor for a FOBT. The Canadian Cancer Society recommends that men and women aged 50 and over have a FOBT at least every 2 years. In
Expert Panel Reaffirms Need for Colon Cancer Screen Beginning at Age 50 [SEP] United States Preventive Services Task Force // The Task Force made no recommendation about routine mammography to screen asymptomatic women aged 40 to 49 years for breast cancer. Patients in this age group should be educated about the risks and benefits of screening, and the decision whether to screen or not should be based on the individual situation and preferences. The old advice was based on "weak" evidence for this age group. The new advice is based on improved scientific evidence about the benefits and harms associated with mammography and is consistent with recommendations by the World Health Organization and other major medical bodies. Their recommendation against
Expert Panel Reaffirms Need for Colon Cancer Screen Beginning at Age 50 [SEP] Cancer screening // is acceptable to screen this age group with a Pap smear alone every 3 years. In women over the age of 65, screening for cervical cancer may be discontinued in the absence of abnormal screening results within the prior 10 years and no history of CIN 2 or higher. Screening for colorectal cancer, if done early enough, is "preventive" because almost all colorectal cancers originate from benign growths called "polyps", which can be located and removed during a colonoscopy (see "colonic polypectomy"). The US Preventive Services Task Force recommends screening for colorectal cancer using fecal occult blood testing, sigmoidoscopy, or
Expert Panel Reaffirms Need for Colon Cancer Screen Beginning at Age 50 [SEP] Cancer prevention // 20 – 30 years; women between 21 – 29 years old are encouraged to receive Pap smear screens every three years, and those over 29 every five years. For women older than the age of 65 and with no history of cervical cancer or abnormality, and with an appropriate precedence of negative Pap test results may cease regular screening. Still, adherence to recommended screening plans depends on age and may be linked to "educational level, culture, psychosocial issues, and marital status," further emphasizing the importance of addressing these challenges in regards to cancer screening. Colorectal cancer is most often screened
Expert Panel Reaffirms Need for Colon Cancer Screen Beginning at Age 50 [SEP] Colorectal cancer // then followed by medical imaging to determine if the disease has spread. Screening is effective for preventing and decreasing deaths from colorectal cancer. Screening, by one of a number of methods, is recommended starting from the age of 50 to 75. During colonoscopy, small polyps may be removed if found. If a large polyp or tumor is found, a biopsy may be performed to check if it is cancerous. Aspirin and other non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs decrease the risk. Their general use is not recommended for this purpose, however, due to side effects. Treatments used for colorectal cancer may include some
Expert Panel Reaffirms Need for Colon Cancer Screen Beginning at Age 50 [SEP] Fecal occult blood // guidelines have been issued by several advisory groups but does not include randomized studies. In 2009 the American College of Gastroenterology (ACG) suggest that colon cancer screening modalities that are also directly preventive by removing precursor lesions should be given precedence, and prefer a colonoscopy every 10 years in average-risk individuals, beginning at age 50. The ACG suggests that cancer detection tests such as any type of FOB are an alternative that is less preferred, and if a colonoscopy is declined, the FIT (fecal immunochemical test, or iFOBT) should be offered instead. Two other recent guidelines, from the US Multisociety
Expert Panel Reaffirms Need for Colon Cancer Screen Beginning at Age 50 [SEP] Colonoscopy // societies recommend a screening colonoscopy every 10 years beginning at age 50 for adults without increased risk for colorectal cancer. Research shows that the risk of cancer is low for 10 years if a high-quality colonoscopy does not detect cancer, so tests for this purpose are indicated every ten years. Colonoscopy screening prevents approximately two thirds of the deaths due to colorectal cancers on the left side of the colon, and is not associated with a significant reduction in deaths from right-sided disease. Colonoscopy reduces cancer rates by detecting some colon polyps and cancers on the left side of the
Expert Panel Reaffirms Need for Colon Cancer Screen Beginning at Age 50 [SEP] Colorectal cancer // colonoscopy can. Stool DNA screening test looks for biomarkers associated with colorectal cancer and precancerous lesions, including altered DNA and blood hemoglobin. A positive result should be followed by colonoscopy. FIT-DNA has more false positives than FIT and thus results in more adverse effects. Further study is required as of 2016 to determine if a three year screening interval is correct. In the United States, screening is typically recommended between ages 50 to 75 years. The American Cancer Society recommends starting at the age of 45. For those between 76 and 85 years old, the decision to screen should be
Expert Panel Reaffirms Need for Colon Cancer Screen Beginning at Age 50 [SEP] Breast cancer screening // more first-degree relatives (mother, sister, daughter) with premenopausal breast cancer often begin screening at an earlier age, perhaps at an age 10 years younger than the age when the relative was diagnosed with breast cancer. As of 2009 the United States Preventive Services Task Force recommends that women over the age of 50 receive mammography once every two years. The Cochrane Collaboration (2013) states that the best quality evidence neither demonstrates a reduction in either cancer specific, nor a reduction in all-cause mortality from screening mammography. When less rigorous trials are added to the analysis there is a reduction in
Okposo says he’s healthy after concussion put him in ICU. [SEP] Caleb Moore // Valley Hospital to be treated for concussion. Doctors there discovered bleeding around the heart, and he was diagnosed with a heart contusion. He was airlifted to St. Mary's Hospital in Grand Junction, Colorado, to undergo heart surgery. While he was being transported, Caleb suffered a period of cardiopulmonary arrest due to presumed unrelieved pericardial tamponade. The lack of oxygen to his brain during this time of hypotension caused anoxic encephalopathy. The fact that a brain complication had occurred was announced by a family spokesman in the days after the accident. Caleb remained unconscious after arrival at St. Mary's Hospital, and
Okposo says he’s healthy after concussion put him in ICU. [SEP] Mark Aubry // wintess on the safety of hockey equipment. Aubry stated that awareness on the long-term effects of concussions increased partially because of the injuries to Sidney Crosby, but noted that physicians in the National Hockey League still disagree on when players are healthy enough to return to play. He was one of the authors in the 2017 report "Can visible signs predict concussion diagnosis in the National Hockey League?" He assessed Senators' player Clarke MacArthur for post-concussion syndrome, and said that given MacArthur's history, it would be too risky to return to play. He also cited research that in-game concussion protocols
Okposo says he’s healthy after concussion put him in ICU. [SEP] Forest Evashevski // from "The Detroit News" said he was a sure-fire all-state pick, if he could stay healthy. But Evashevski suffered from headaches and vomiting after the game. In his next game, he hit a punt returner, forcing a fumble. Evashevski was knocked out cold and spent the next several months in the hospital. He said, "In the second game, I suffered a cerebral hemorrhage. They did three spinal taps on me before they decided to operate. I was supposed to be through with football. But when something is taken away from you like that, I believe you want it even more
Okposo says he’s healthy after concussion put him in ICU. [SEP] Jason Williams (ice hockey) // 2006, during a game against the Edmonton Oilers, Williams was injured when he was checked from behind the net by Raffi Torres, causing his head to hit the ice. Williams was taken off the ice on a stretcher and taken to Detroit Medical Center. He was released from the hospital on November 9 with facial lacerations and a first-degree concussion. The Red Wings put him on the injured reserve list, causing him to miss a minimum of 10 days. According to the Red Wings, he never lost consciousness. Later that season, Williams was sent to the Chicago Blackhawks on February
Okposo says he’s healthy after concussion put him in ICU. [SEP] Bennet Omalu // in the brains of retired NFL players Justin Strzelczyk (d. 2004 at 36 years old), Andre Waters (d. 2006 at 44), and Tom McHale (d. 2008 at 45). In summer 2007, Bailes presented his and Omalu's findings to NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell at a league-wide concussion summit. Bailes later said that the research was "dismissed". The NFL's MTBI committee chair, Dr. Ira Casson, told the press: "In my opinion, the only scientifically valid evidence of a chronic encephalopathy in athletes is in boxers and in some Steeplechase jockeys." The NFL did not publicly acknowledge the link between concussions sustained in
Okposo says he’s healthy after concussion put him in ICU. [SEP] Kyle Okposo // NHL debut on March 18, 2008, against the Toronto Maple Leafs, and netted his first career NHL goal on March 21, 2008, against the New Jersey Devils, a game-winner scored on the powerplay against Martin Brodeur. He also scored in his final game of the season in a game against the New York Rangers. On September 17, 2009, Okposo suffered a mild concussion after a check to the head by Dion Phaneuf. He returned to the Islanders' lineup for their opening game on October 3, 2009. On May 25, 2011, he signed a five-year, $14 million contract with the New
Okposo says he’s healthy after concussion put him in ICU. [SEP] Chronic traumatic encephalopathy // Pennsylvania, found CTE in the brains of Mike Webster, Terry Long, Andre Waters, Justin Strzelczyk, and Tom McHale. Omalu, initially a medical examiner, then associate adjunct professor in California, was a co-founder of the Brain Injury Research Institute and reportedly in 2012 participated in the autopsy of Junior Seau. Omalu's participation was halted during the autopsy after Junior Seau's son revoked previously provided oral permission after he received telephone calls from NFL management denouncing Omalu's professional ethics, qualifications, and motivation. Between 2008 and 2010, the bodies of twelve former professional American football players were diagnosed with CTE postmortem by Dr.
Okposo says he’s healthy after concussion put him in ICU. [SEP] Concussion (2015 film) // he said during his Hall of Fame speech. Bennet Omalu, a forensic pathologist with the Allegheny County, Pennsylvania coroner's office, handles Webster's autopsy. He wonders how a man, otherwise healthy, and fairly young, could have degenerated so quickly, and makes it a point to figure out why he died of a heart attack at only fifty. Omalu closely examines microscope slides of Webster's brain and discovers that he had severe brain damage. He ultimately determines that Webster died as a result of the long-term effects of repeated blows to the head, a disorder he later calls chronic traumatic encephalopathy (CTE).
Okposo says he’s healthy after concussion put him in ICU. [SEP] Kyle Okposo // the most heavily sought free agents on the market. Okposo signed a seven-year, $42 million contract with the Buffalo Sabres shortly after the signing window opened that day. Okposo was born to Kome and Michelle Okposo. Okposo married his wife, Danielle, on July 28, 2012. Elliana, their first child was born on January 6, 2014, Their second was born in April 2016. In late March 2017, Okposo was hospitalized in the neurosurgical intensive care unit in Buffalo General Hospital and missed the remainder of the season. Kyle Okposo Kyle Henry Erovre Okposo (born April 16, 1988) is an American professional
Okposo says he’s healthy after concussion put him in ICU. [SEP] University of Pittsburgh Medical Center // guitarist and founder Robert Buck for liver disease, sportscaster Bob Prince, publisher William Block, MCI CEO William G. McGowan, transplant recipient Stormie Jones and Pittsburgh mayors Bob O'Connor for lymphoma and Richard Caliguiri for amyloidosis. Pittsburgh Steelers quarterback Ben Roethlisberger was rushed to UPMC Mercy after his 2006 motorcycle crash and NASCAR driver Dale Earnhardt, Jr., was treated for concussions in 2012. Legendary golfer Arnold Palmer, a native of Latrobe, PA, died at UPMC Shadyside on September 25, 2016. In 2017, Manchester United striker Zlatan Ibrahimović traveled to a UPMC facility to have surgery to repair his torn anterior cruciate
To reverse damage of sitting, take a brisk, hour-long walk [SEP] Flow-mediated dilation // steps per day, but were restricted to less than 5,000 steps per day for five days showed impaired FMD in the popliteal (leg) artery, but not the brachial (arm) artery. The reduction of leg FMD caused by prolonged sitting can be reduced by fidgeting (periodic leg movement). An eight-week program of brisk walking resulted in a 50% increase in brachial artery FMD in middle-aged and older men, but failed to produce this benefit in estrogen-deficient post-menopausal women. Forty-five minutes of cycling exercise before sitting has been shown to eliminate the impaired leg FMD due to three hours of sitting. Athletes
To reverse damage of sitting, take a brisk, hour-long walk [SEP] Zero time exercise // Exercise is to reduce sedentary behaviours and their harmful effects on health. People who spend too much time sitting or standing still can do Zero Time Exercise and thus decrease daily sedentary time. Pedalling: Lift both legs and perform a cycling motion. Continue for as long as you can. Chair sit and reach: Sit with one leg straight and one leg bent. Lean and reach forward. Single leg stand: Lift one leg and hold. Continue for as long as you can. Mini squat: Squat down with your knees slightly bent. Hold for as long as you can. Move hands while
To reverse damage of sitting, take a brisk, hour-long walk [SEP] Long-term complications of standing // be reduced with breaks and the availability of chairs. Research has shown that the body experiences muscle fatigue after standing for five hours; this fatigue persists for more than 30 minutes after the end of the work day according to electronic measurements of fatigue. The perception of fatigue is subjective and does not necessarily correlate with the experimental indicators of fatigue. Walking or standing more than six hours per day has been linked with pre-term births, low birth weights as well as high blood pressure for the mother. Researchers have found that working more than 25 hours a week has
To reverse damage of sitting, take a brisk, hour-long walk [SEP] Sitting // sitting is a health risk. These include changes in cardiac output, vitamin D, inflammation, sex hormone activity, lipoprotein lipase activity, and GLUT4 activity due to long periods of muscular unloading, among others. Sitting may occupy up to half of an adult's workday in developed countries. Workplace programs to reduce sitting vary in method. They include sit-stand desks, counseling, workplace policy changes, walking/standing meetings, treadmill desks, breaks, therapy ball chairs, and stepping devices. Results of these programs are mixed, but there is moderate evidence to show that changes to chairs (adjusting the biomechanics of the chair or using different types of
To reverse damage of sitting, take a brisk, hour-long walk [SEP] Shatapawali // can do wonders to your health. It not only improves the blood circulation in the body but also relieves stress. This is the reason, why people walking around 100 steps after dinner enjoy a good night’s sleep. A 15-minute walk after eating your dinner not only lowers blood levels of fat (triglycerides and cholesterol) but also enhances blood circulation to various parts of the body. This is mainly due to the fact that walking ensures proper supply of oxygen and nutrients to the heart which in turn causes better blood circulation. People suffering from type 2 diabetes are benefitted by
To reverse damage of sitting, take a brisk, hour-long walk [SEP] Shatapawali // Shatapawali Experts believe that walking at least 100 steps after eating your dinner improves your overall wellbeing. This includes proper digestion, burning calories, better control of blood sugar levels and triglycerides in the body. Here’s how a 15-minute walk after meals can transform your health and prevent various health complications. The process of digestion is initiated soon after a person has consumed his meals. The gastric juices and enzymes responsible for digestion are stimulated in the mean time. However, if a person walks after eating his dinner, the process of gastric emptying of the meal is accelerated leading to better
To reverse damage of sitting, take a brisk, hour-long walk [SEP] Sitting // Chiropractic Association said in 2006 that 32% of the British population spent more than ten hours per day sitting down. The most common ways of sitting on the floor involve bending the knees. One can also sit with the legs unbent, using something solid as support for the back or leaning on one's arms. Sitting with bent legs can be done with the legs mostly parallel or by crossing them over each other. A common cross-legged position is with the lower part of both legs folded towards the body, crossing each other at the ankle or calf, with both ankles
To reverse damage of sitting, take a brisk, hour-long walk [SEP] Shatapawali // regularly walking after having their meals. After eating dinner the blood sugar levels spike up due to breakdown of food components. But when you walk after having dinner, the body is physically active which uses the excess glucose present in the blood thereby controlling sugar levels. Although a 15-minute walk after dinner is a must to lead a healthy life, it plays a key role in weight loss. It is one of the most effective and simple ways to maintain a healthy weight as walking not only burns calories but also improves your overall health Shatapawali Experts believe that walking
To reverse damage of sitting, take a brisk, hour-long walk [SEP] Walking // ability, concentration and abstract reasoning, as well as ameliorating spirits. Sustained walking sessions for a minimum period of thirty to sixty minutes a day, five days a week, with the correct walking posture, reduce health risks and have various overall health benefits, such as reducing the chances of cancer, type 2 diabetes, heart disease, anxiety disorder and depression. Life expectancy is also increased even for individuals suffering from obesity or high blood pressure. Walking also improves bone health, especially strengthening the hip bone, and lowering the harmful low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol, and raising the useful high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol. Studies
To reverse damage of sitting, take a brisk, hour-long walk [SEP] Treadmill desk // aerobic exercise, but rather to keep the user's metabolism over the basal metabolic rate. According to a study by James Levine at the Mayo Clinic, users can burn an estimated 100-130 calories per hour at speeds slower than 2 miles per hour. According to a 2007 Mayo Clinic study of office workers with obesity, "If sitting computer-time were replaced by walking-and-working, energy expenditure could increase by 100 cal/h. Thus, if obese individuals were to replace time spent sitting at the computer with walking computer time by 2–3s of 20–30 kg/year could occur." However, when Levine and associates actually conducted a
Idaho officials say cat has rabies, first case in decades. [SEP] Rabies in animals // onset and can include unusual aggression, restlessness, lethargy, anorexia, weakness, disorientation, paralysis and seizures. To prevent rabies in outdoor cats it is important to vaccinate and booster felines by trusted veterinarian with a licensed rabies vaccine. Despite natural infection of rabbits being rare, they are particularly vulnerable to the rabies virus; rabbits were used to develop the first rabies vaccine by Louis Pasteur in the 1880s, and are continued to be used for rabies diagnostic testing. The virus is often contracted when attacked by other rabid animals and can incubate within a rabbit for up to 2–3 weeks. Symptoms include
Idaho officials say cat has rabies, first case in decades. [SEP] Prevalence of rabies // in October 1996 in Cumberland County, Kentucky and a man who died in December 1996 in Missoula County, Montana were both infected with a rabies strain found in silver-haired bats; although bats were found living in the chimney of the woman's home and near the man's workplace, neither victim could remember having had any contact with them. Similar reports among spelunkers led to experimental demonstration in animals. This inability to recognize a potential infection, in contrast to a bite from a dog or raccoon, leads to a lack of proper prophylactic treatment, and is the cause of the high mortality
Idaho officials say cat has rabies, first case in decades. [SEP] Rabies in animals // cause for concern if they interact with humans. Rabies is common in cats. In the United States between 200-300 cases are reported annually. Cats that have not been vaccinated and are allowed access to the outdoors have the most risk for contracting rabies as they may come in contact with rabid animals. The virus is often passed on during fights between cats or other animals and is transmitted by bites, saliva or through mucous membranes and fresh wounds. The virus can incubate from one day up to over a year before any symptoms begin to show. Symptoms have a rapid
Idaho officials say cat has rabies, first case in decades. [SEP] Pandemic H1N1/09 virus // touching cat's eyes, nose, and mouth while sick. Thoroughly wash your hands after handling a sick pet since it may be possible for cats to transmit the virus to humans. This is the third confirmed case of H1N1 in a cat in the U.S.; other cases have occurred in Utah and Iowa. The first case of a dog with H1N1 was reported in December 2009. On July 22, 2011 the Norwegian Veterinary Institute reported the first occurrence of 2009-H1N1 influenza virus in minks. The initial outbreak of a novel swine-origin H1N1 flu pandemic in 2009 and the virus strain that
Idaho officials say cat has rabies, first case in decades. [SEP] Rabies in animals // did not remember any direct contact with bats. Rabies cases in the Virginia opossum are spillover cases from other wildlife species such as bats, skunks and the raccoon epizootic in the eastern United States. Cases have been reported across the United States from California to New York. In New York state, laboratory confirmed rabies cases in opossums occurred five of the ten years between from 1989 to 1999. Recently, from 2010 to 2014, rabid Virginia opossums were reported in New York City and the states of New Jersey, Maryland, and Virginia. In the U.S., there is currently no USDA-approved vaccine
Idaho officials say cat has rabies, first case in decades. [SEP] Rabies in animals // considered a possible exposure to the rabies virus. Most cases of rabies in rodents reported to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in the U.S.A. have been found among groundhogs (woodchucks). Small rodents such as squirrels, hamsters, guinea pigs, gerbils, chipmunks, rats, and mice and lagomorphs like rabbits and hares are almost never found to be infected with rabies and are not known to transmit rabies to humans. In the United States, the most commonly reported rabid animal is the domestic cat. In every year since 1990, reported cases of rabies in cats have outnumbered cases of rabies in
Idaho officials say cat has rabies, first case in decades. [SEP] Prevalence of rabies // in 2015, Utah reported 22 positive cases of rabid bats. For the year of 2016 Utah had identified 20 total positive cases of rabies, all of which pertained to only bat species. Several countries in Europe have been designated rabies-free jurisdictions: Austria, United Kingdom, Ireland, Belgium, the Netherlands, Luxembourg, France, Switzerland, Portugal, Italy, Spain, Greece, Malta, Germany, Denmark, Norway, Sweden, Finland, Latvia, Estonia, the Czech Republic, Iceland, and the Republic of Cyprus. The first case of rabies since 1978 was confirmed in the city of Toledo, Central Spain, on 5 June 2013. The dog had been imported from Morocco. No
Idaho officials say cat has rabies, first case in decades. [SEP] Rabies in animals // weakness in limbs, head tremors, low appetite, nasal discharge, and death within 3–4 days. However, there are currently no vaccines available for rabbits. The National Institutes of Health recommends that rabbits be kept indoors or enclosed in hutches outside that do not allow other animals to come in contact with them. Rabies has a long history of association with dogs. The first written record of rabies is in the Codex of Eshnunna (ca. 1930 BC), which dictates that the owner of a dog showing symptoms of rabies should take preventive measure against bites. If a person was bitten by a
Idaho officials say cat has rabies, first case in decades. [SEP] Cat bite // observing the cat. Cats with rabies may also appear restless, pant, and attack other animals, people, or objects. Animals with rabies typically die within a few days of appearing sick. Vaccination of the cat can prevent rabies being transmitted by the cat through a bite. If the cat is suspected of being infected with rabies, the person begins treatment with rabies vaccine. Cat bites can often be prevented by: Rough play is perceived as aggressive. This will lead to the cat being defensive when approached by people. Preventing cat bites includes not provoking the cat. The first step in treatment
Idaho officials say cat has rabies, first case in decades. [SEP] Prevalence of rabies // decade are as follows: The United States as with other developed countries have seen a dramatic decrease in the number of human infections and deaths due to the rabies virus. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) the stark reduction in the number of rabies cases is attributable to the elimination of canine rabies through vaccination, the vaccination of wildlife, education of the virus, and timely administration of post exposure prophylaxis. Currently, in the U.S. only 1 to 3 cases of rabies are reported annually. Since 2008 there have been 23 cases of human rabies infection, 8
A teenage schoolgirl in Texas became pregnant through a flu vaccination. [SEP] 2009 Flu pandemic in North America // Control and Prevention had officially confirmed through tests that a 23-month-old child was infected with the flu. When the sickness continued to worsen the next day, he was transferred to Texas Children's Hospital in Houston, where he died. On May 5, Judy Trunnell, a woman in her 30's suffering from "chronic underlying health conditions" died of swine flu in Cameron County, near the US-Mexico border. She was the first US citizen to die from the disease. The woman, a special education teacher, had recently given birth to an eight-month-term healthy baby, delivered by caesarian section. She had been in a
A teenage schoolgirl in Texas became pregnant through a flu vaccination. [SEP] 2009 Flu pandemic in North America // border crossings. On May 5, in a meeting with Health Minister and the Vicepresident, it was announced that an 11-year-old girl was infected with the AH1N1 virus. It was told that the family of the girl came from Mexico a few days ago, but no one else in the family it is infected. On the same press meeting, Rafael Espada said: "We've to prepare ourselves for the worst, and just hope for the best". The government has stated that they're prepared for a first wave of AH1N1. Nevertheless, other institutions have started to help population by giving them masks and
A teenage schoolgirl in Texas became pregnant through a flu vaccination. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic in the United States by state // problem and lack of oxygen. Texas Governor Rick Perry issued a disaster declaration. On April 29, it was confirmed by Harris County that a 17-year-old girl from Fort Bend County attending Episcopal High School in Bellaire had contracted and recovered from the A/H1N1 swine flu. In compliance with the directives of the Harris County Public Health and Environmental Services Department, the school has been closed until further notice. Also in Fort Worth, a rising number of possible and confirmed cases in the district made school officials close all schools starting the next day, April 30. Schools in FWISD remained closed
A teenage schoolgirl in Texas became pregnant through a flu vaccination. [SEP] Prelude to the 2012 Republican Party presidential primaries // Texas to vaccinate teenage girls against HPV. Bachmann said Perry was influenced by the Merck pharmaceutical company, and said the vaccination trampled on the girls' rights, who she said "didn't have a choice". Bachmann told the media that a voter came to her and claimed her child developed mental retardation from the vaccine. After scientists disputed her claim as baseless, she refused to retract the statement, and insisted the vaccine had dangerous side effects. According to "The Weekly Standard", Bachmann's scientific illiteracy on the HPV scare created an implosion for her campaign, which lost significant support. Perry's performance at the
A teenage schoolgirl in Texas became pregnant through a flu vaccination. [SEP] 2009 Flu pandemic in North America // los Caballeros and the other was a 20-year-old woman from Santo Domingo Province. Each of them had visited the United States (Orlando and Seattle, respectively) before being diagnosed. On May 30, nine more cases were confirmed, all from the Carol Morgan school. On June 5, a 17-year-old pregnant girl infected with the AH1N1 virus died. 44 cases were confirmed to this date. A 29-year-old, who had recently visited Mexico, was being tested for a suspected case of swine flu. Guatemala is checking all travelers arriving from Mexico for signs of flu and stopping anyone with symptoms of the virus at
A teenage schoolgirl in Texas became pregnant through a flu vaccination. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic in the United States by state // ISD closed all campuses for 7 days after a student was confirmed to have contracted type A influenza. On May 5, Judy Trunnell, a woman in her 30's suffering from "chronic underlying health conditions" died of swine flu in Cameron County, near the US-Mexico border. She was the first US citizen to die from the disease. The woman, a special education teacher, had recently given birth to an eight-month-term healthy baby, delivered by caesarian section. She had been in a coma after being admitted to the hospital with breathing problems on April 19. The woman had also suffered from asthma,
A teenage schoolgirl in Texas became pregnant through a flu vaccination. [SEP] Rick Perry // In February 2007, Perry issued an executive order mandating that Texas girls receive the HPV vaccine, which protects against some strains of the human papilloma virus, a contributing factor to some forms of cervical cancer. Following the move, news outlets reported various apparent financial connections between Perry and the vaccine's manufacturer, Merck. Merck's political action committee has contributed $28,500 since 2001 to Perry's campaigns. The order was criticized by some parents and social conservatives, and a lawsuit was filed later that month. In May 2007, the Texas Legislature passed a bill undoing the order; Perry did not veto the bill,
A teenage schoolgirl in Texas became pregnant through a flu vaccination. [SEP] Gloucester High School (Massachusetts) // opposition from the board of Addison Gilbert Hospital, which sponsors the clinic. The clinic staff, a pediatrician and nurse practitioner, resigned in protest at the end of the school year. On October 8, 2008 the Gloucester School Committee granted the use of contraceptives through the Student Health Center, provided the students had parental approval. The "pregnancy pact" controversy inspired some fictional treatments. The "" episode "Babes", airing in November 2008, featured a pregnancy pact between four high-school girls, with one becoming involved with a mentally-ill homeless man to conceive. The following March, an episode of "Bones", "The Salt in the
A teenage schoolgirl in Texas became pregnant through a flu vaccination. [SEP] Northern Rivers Vaccination Supporters // their own facts. And science is factual" In response to her stance on vaccination, Gaylard has received hateful phone calls, much anti-vaccine material by post and has had her daughter approached by a stranger in a supermarket asking if Gaylard was her mother. Heidi Robertson contracted whooping cough whilst six months pregnant in 2008 and feared she would lose her baby. The experience motivated her to join with others who shared her concerns about low vaccination rates to found the NRVS. NRVS members have made television appearances on both ABC Australia and Today on the Nine Network. Heidi Robertson featured
A teenage schoolgirl in Texas became pregnant through a flu vaccination. [SEP] Michele Bachmann // Texas girls. The American Academy of Pediatrics, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, American Academy of Family Physicians, American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices and other medical organizations worldwide are in favor of immunizing girls and boys against HPV. HPV can cause lesions and genital warts, and has been linked to cervical cancer as well as genital and oral cancers in people of any gender. Because the vaccine is effective only if given before the onset of sexual activity and subsequent exposure to the virus, medical groups recommend the three dose vaccine be given to
The most likely triggering cause of (microcephaly)" is the "DTaP shot, a vaccine that had been recently mandated by the Brazilian government to be injected into pregnant women. [SEP] Pyriproxyfen // where no evidence has been found of the cases being linked to any environmental cause like an insecticide. Neurologist Vanessa van der Linden stated in an interview, "Clinically, the changes we see in the scans of babies suggest that the injuries were caused by congenital infection and not by larvicide, drug or vaccine." Noted skeptic David Gorski called the claim a conspiracy theory and pointed out that antivaccine proponents had also claimed that the Tdap vaccine was the cause of the microcephaly outbreak, due to its introduction in 2014, along with adding, "One can’t help but wonder what else the
The most likely triggering cause of (microcephaly)" is the "DTaP shot, a vaccine that had been recently mandated by the Brazilian government to be injected into pregnant women. [SEP] Zika fever // important to state that some localities that do not use pyriproxyfen also had reported cases of microcephaly", read a Brazilian government statement. The Brazilian government also refuted conspiracy theories that chickenpox and rubella vaccinations or genetically modified mosquitoes were causing increases in microcephaly. Researchers also suspected that Zika virus could be transmitted by a pregnant woman to her babies ("vertical transmission"). This remained unproven until February 2016, when a paper by Calvet et al. was published, showing not only was the Zika virus genome found in the amniotic fluid but also IgM antibodies against the virus. This means that not
The most likely triggering cause of (microcephaly)" is the "DTaP shot, a vaccine that had been recently mandated by the Brazilian government to be injected into pregnant women. [SEP] Pyriproxyfen // (WHOPES) for larvicides. In January 2016, the Brazilian Association for Collective Health ("Abrasco"; ) criticized the introduction of pyriproxyfen in Brazil. Abrasco demanded the "immediate suspension of [use of] pyriproxyfen and all growth inhibitors ... in drinking water." The organization is opposed to the use of growth inhibitors in the context of an ongoing outbreak of fetal malformation. On February 3, the rumor that pyriproxyfen, not the Zika virus, is the cause of the 2015-2016 microcephaly outbreak in Brazil was raised in a report of the Argentinean organization Physicians in the Crop-Sprayed Villages (PCST). It attracted wide media coverage. The
The most likely triggering cause of (microcephaly)" is the "DTaP shot, a vaccine that had been recently mandated by the Brazilian government to be injected into pregnant women. [SEP] Pyriproxyfen // statement from Abrasco was cited in the PCST report; subsequently, Abrasco clarified that position as an misinterpretation of their statement, saying "at no time did we state that pesticides, insecticides, or other chemicals are responsible for the increasing number of microcephaly cases in Brazil". They also condemned the behavior of the websites that spread the misinformation, adding that such "untruths...violates the anguish and suffering of the people in vulnerable positions". In addition, the coordinator for the PCST statement, Medardo Ávila Vazquez, acknowledged in an interview that "the group hasn’t done any lab studies or epidemiological research to support its assertions,
The most likely triggering cause of (microcephaly)" is the "DTaP shot, a vaccine that had been recently mandated by the Brazilian government to be injected into pregnant women. [SEP] Zika fever // 2016 that the Brazilian Ministry of Health had confirmed 134 cases of microcephaly "believed to be associated with Zika virus infection" with an additional 2,165 cases in 549 counties in 20 states remaining under investigation. An analysis of 574 cases of microcephaly in Brazil during 2015 and the first week of 2016, reported in March 2016, found an association with maternal illness involving rash and fever during the first trimester of pregnancy. During this period, 12 Brazilian states reported increases of at least 3 standard deviations (SDs) in cases of microcephaly compared with 2000–14, with the northeastern states of Bahia,
The most likely triggering cause of (microcephaly)" is the "DTaP shot, a vaccine that had been recently mandated by the Brazilian government to be injected into pregnant women. [SEP] Celina Turchi // in pregnant women would have influence on the foetus' lack of cranial development. Celina Turchi Celina Maria Turchi Martelli is a Brazilian epidemiologist, graduated by Federal University of Goiás and researcher at Fundação Oswaldo Cruz in Recife. She first associated the link between zika virus and microcephaly in newborn babies during the 2015 disease outbreak in Brazil; she was listed by "Nature" magazine as one of the 10 most notable people in science in 2016, and by "Time" magazine as one of the 100 most influential people of 2017. Turchi was born in the state of Goiás. She did her
The most likely triggering cause of (microcephaly)" is the "DTaP shot, a vaccine that had been recently mandated by the Brazilian government to be injected into pregnant women. [SEP] Zika fever // Paraíba and Pernambuco reporting increases of more than 20 SDs. In January 2016, a baby in Oahu, Hawaii, was born with microcephaly, the first case in the United States of brain damage linked to the virus. The baby and mother tested positive for a past Zika virus infection. The mother, who had probably acquired the virus while traveling in Brazil in May 2015 during the early stages of her pregnancy, had reported her bout of Zika. She recovered before relocating to Hawaii. Her pregnancy had progressed normally, and the baby's condition was not known until birth. In February 2016, ocular
The most likely triggering cause of (microcephaly)" is the "DTaP shot, a vaccine that had been recently mandated by the Brazilian government to be injected into pregnant women. [SEP] Pertussis vaccine // contain reduced amounts of pertussis antigens compared to DTaP vaccines. Pearl Kendrick and Grace Eldering studied pertussis in the 1930s. They developed and ran the first large scale study of a successful vaccine for the disease. During the 1970s and 1980s, a controversy erupted related to the question of whether the whole-cell pertussis component caused permanent brain injury in rare cases, called pertussis vaccine encephalopathy. Despite this allegation, doctors recommended the vaccine due to the overwhelming public health benefit, because the claimed rate was very low (one case per 310,000 immunizations, or about 50 cases out of the 15 million
The most likely triggering cause of (microcephaly)" is the "DTaP shot, a vaccine that had been recently mandated by the Brazilian government to be injected into pregnant women. [SEP] Pyriproxyfen // of pyriproxyfen by the World Health Organization since 2004 and the United States Environmental Protection Agency since 2001. George Dimech, the director of Disease Control and Diseases of the Health Department of Pernambuco in Brazil, gave an interview to the BBC where he pointed out that the city of Recife has the current highest reported amount of cases of microcephaly, yet pyriproxyfen is not used in the region, but another insecticide altogether. He added that "this lack of spatial correlation weakens the idea that the larvicide is the cause of the problem." In addition, the BBC interviewed researchers in Pernambuco,
The most likely triggering cause of (microcephaly)" is the "DTaP shot, a vaccine that had been recently mandated by the Brazilian government to be injected into pregnant women. [SEP] Vaccine court // case brought to the vaccine court by the family of Hannah Poling, a girl who developed autistic-like symptoms after receiving a series of vaccines in a single day. The vaccines given were DTaP, Hib, MMR, varicella, and inactivated polio. Poling was diagnosed months later with encephalopathy (brain disease) caused by a mitochondrial enzyme deficit, a mitochondrial disorder; it is not unusual for children with such deficits to develop neurologic signs between their first and second years. There is little scientific research in the area: no scientific studies show whether childhood vaccines can cause or contribute to mitochondrial disease, and there
2 Aussie wildfires merge into inferno; man seriously burned. [SEP] 2012–13 Australian bushfire season // nearly a quarter of its pasture land, as a result of the fires. Surrounding stations Angus downs and King's Creek lost similar amounts. A bush fire broke out on private land near Two Peoples Bay on 12 October and a team of about 20 fire-fighters arrived to combat the blaze. Following a sudden change in wind direction a track carrying two of the fire crew was engulfed in flames. The two women, both females, received terrible burns. The 45-year-old woman received burns to 60% of her body was admitted to hospital in critical condition and the 24-year-old had burns to
2 Aussie wildfires merge into inferno; man seriously burned. [SEP] 2006–07 Australian bushfire season // hut that featured in the film "The Man from Snowy River". In Gippsland on 14 December, eighteen homes were destroyed in the Heyfield–Walhalla area in blazes believed to have been deliberately lit. A 48-year-old man was killed falling off the back of a trailer while fighting the Gippsland fires. In South Australia, nearly 1,200 km² was burnt at Bookmark, near Waikerie in South Australia's Riverland region. In Tasmania, fires burnt at St Marys on the east coast, Zeehan in the west and in the state's south at Bream Creek and Deep Bay. Fires destroyed at least 18 houses near Scamander
2 Aussie wildfires merge into inferno; man seriously burned. [SEP] 2015–16 Australian bushfire season // the Scotsburn fire, were burnt by the Barnawartha fire, and fire started by lightning in the Otway National Park near Lorne would continue to burn past Christmas and be dubbed the "Lorne-Jamieson Track" fire. On 19 December, 14 houses and at least 30 non-residential structures were destroyed by the Scotsburn fire, which also ravaged significant areas of rural property in the City of Ballarat and Shire of Moorabool municipalities. Suburbs and towns affected included Clarendon, Durham Lead, Elaine, Garibaldi and Scotsburn. The fire had been ignited on the same day by a landowner using a slashing machine; 500 firefighting personnel
2 Aussie wildfires merge into inferno; man seriously burned. [SEP] Porongurup, Western Australia // and spread into private property to the north-east of the village centre. One private residence and a number of farm sheds and buildings were destroyed and other buildings seriously damaged in the fire. Fire crews, including aerial support from six water bomber planes, battled the blaze and by Tuesday morning it was effectively under control. By Wednesday morning (14 February) the fire had burnt through around 95% of the national park and several farms and wineries showed the scars of the fire. It was reportedly the most devastating fire in the region since the 1960s. Less than a week after
2 Aussie wildfires merge into inferno; man seriously burned. [SEP] Firestorm // for at least 2 months. The characteristic injection height of pyroCb emissions is the upper troposphere, and a subset of these storms pollutes the lower stratosphere. Thus, a new appreciation for the role of extreme wildfire behavior and its atmospheric ramifications is now coming into focus. The Black Saturday bushfires are some of Australia’s most destructive and deadly fires that fall under the category of a “firestorm” due to the extreme fire behavior and relationship with atmospheric responses that occurred during the fires. This major wildfire event leads to a number of distinct electrified Pyrocumulonimbus plume clusters ranging roughly 15
2 Aussie wildfires merge into inferno; man seriously burned. [SEP] 2012–13 Australian bushfire season // Northern Territory. One fire that originated in the Watarrka National Park spread into the Kings Canyon resort on 8 January causing damage and leading to the evacuation of 120 staff and guests. A second fire at Napperby station had burnt through with flames jumping containment lines. Several large bushfires started on the afternoon of 3 January, including blazes at Lake Repulse, Richmond and Inala Rd, Forcett. The bushfires in both the Forcett and Lake Repulse areas both rapidly burned out over 1,000 hectares of land, burning in an easterly direction as a result of the prevailing Westerly wind, which pushed
2 Aussie wildfires merge into inferno; man seriously burned. [SEP] 2002–03 Australian bushfire season // spring rain led to the Bureau of Meteorology predicting conditions comparable to that of the 1983 Ash Wednesday fires, and Fire Authorities were subsequently placed on high alert. On 17 December, multiple lightning strikes in the Big Desert Wilderness Park ignited vegetation, creating a fire complex within the park south of Murrayville and burning until 25 December. The Big Desert Fire was, at the time, the biggest fire in Victoria in 20 years, affecting 181,400 hectares of predominantly public land and requiring significant resources to contain. On 6 January, lightning ignited a fire near Yambulla, north west of Genoa in
2 Aussie wildfires merge into inferno; man seriously burned. [SEP] 2012–13 Australian bushfire season // warning was issued as the fire headed toward the Darling Range through thick forest with a scattering of houses. Another fire started 13 February near the Blackwood River near Southampton and then burnt out of control through the surrounding forest before destroying two homes, including the historic Southampton Homestead, and near Bridgetown. More fires broke out 15 February including one north of Australind near Leschenault that threatened homes and properties. Another further south near Kin Kin which had started earlier in the week from lightning strikes had burnt through of bushland. Human remains were found in a shack in Kin
2 Aussie wildfires merge into inferno; man seriously burned. [SEP] 2010–11 Australian bushfire season // 2 December the fire had burnt through but had claimed no homes, and was brought under control by over one hundred firefighters. On 10 January 2011, a fire began about 30 km south of Mandurah, near the suburb of Lake Clifton, leading to FESA issuing an emergency warning for residents to evacuate or to defend their homes on 10 January. A shed was burnt and flames were reported to be as high as a two-storey building. By 12 January ten homes hade been destroyed and the fire had burnt an area of approximately 2000ha, the fire was deliberately lit with
2 Aussie wildfires merge into inferno; man seriously burned. [SEP] Australian Alps // Ranges above Canberra, the fires entered the suburbs of the city on 18 January 2003. Four people died and more than 500 homes were destroyed or severely damaged. The Victorian Black Saturday bushfires were particularly intense in parts of the Victorian Highcountry and destroyed several towns, including Kinglake and Marysville. The fires killed 173 people, Australia's highest ever loss of life from a bushfire. Statewide, the fires affected 78 townships and destroyed over 2,030 houses, 3,500+ structures. Within the Australian Alps there are about 120 active alpine huts that mostly date back to the early cattlemen's days, early skiing huts,
Lamont fills top public health, insurance agency jobs. [SEP] James G. Haughton // trained at Unity as an obstetrician and gynecologist. After medical school, Haughton initially entered private practice in obstetrics and later became a medical administrative officer for the United States Navy. His career in public health began in New York City in 1965. In 1967, President Richard Nixon appointed Haughton to Department of Health, Education and Welfare task force overseeing Medicaid. Following his time at New York, Haughton became executive director of the Health and Hospital Governing Commission in Chicago, Illinois in 1971. In this position, he was the highest-paid public official in Illinois with compensation of $60,000 a year. In
Lamont fills top public health, insurance agency jobs. [SEP] Michèle Lamont // Health (2009) and Social Resilience in the Neo-Liberal Era (2013). Both books coedited by and Michele Lamont were published by Cambridge University Press. In 2009 and 2010, Lamont served as Senior Advisor on Faculty Development and Diversity in the Faculty of Arts and Sciences at Harvard University. In July 2015 Lamont began a five-year mandate to serve as director of the Weatherhead Center for International Affairs (WCFIA). This center is among the largest social science centers at Harvard. Lamont has been a visiting professor at various institutions including the Collège de France, SciencesPo, Université de Paris 8, École des hautes
Lamont fills top public health, insurance agency jobs. [SEP] Joel Lamstein // women and girls. Today, Joel Lamstein leads almost 3,000 staff from three organizations in 88 countries, implementing more than 250 projects that strengthen health and educational systems, build community skills and support, and address people’s health care and literacy needs. Lamstein is on the faculty of the Harvard School of Public Health). He has also lectured at various universities including: the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania, MIT Sloan School, the Boston University School of Public Health, and the Harvard Kennedy School of Government on organizational strategy, nonprofit management, international development, and strategic management. In 2016, Lamstein was appointed
Lamont fills top public health, insurance agency jobs. [SEP] Gene Lamont // Gene Lamont Gene William Lamont (born December 25, 1946) is an American special assistant to the general manager of the Kansas City Royals. He was a catcher and manager in Major League Baseball who managed the Chicago White Sox (1992–1995) and Pittsburgh Pirates (1997–2000) and served as a coach for the Detroit Tigers (2006-2017). He batted left-handed and threw right-handed. Lamont was a Chicago Cubs fan all his life, growing up in Kirkland, Illinois and attending Western Illinois University. He was selected by the Detroit Tigers in the 1st round, as the 13th pick, of the 1965 amateur draft, and
Lamont fills top public health, insurance agency jobs. [SEP] Johann Lamont // Education and Lifelong Learning), Lewis Macdonald (Shadow Justice Minister) and Boyack (Local Government and Planning). The post of Shadow Health Minister was given to Jackie Baillie, who had held the position previously. Gray was not included, as he had expressed a wish to take a break from frontline politics. Lamont announced a major shakeup of the Labour frontbench team on 28 June 2013. Gray returned to replace Macintosh as the party's finance spokesman. Macdonald was appointed chief whip, and his previous role as Shadow Justice Minister was given to Graeme Pearson. Baillie was moved from Health to Social Justice and
Lamont fills top public health, insurance agency jobs. [SEP] Ned Lamont // fellow at the Harvard Institute of Politics and the Yale School of Management. He is an adjunct faculty member and chair of the Arts and Sciences Public Policy Committee at Central Connecticut State University, where he was named Distinguished Professor of Political Science and Philosophy. On February 16, 2010, Lamont officially announced his candidacy for the 2010 gubernatorial election. On May 22, 2010, he was defeated at the state Democratic convention by former Stamford Mayor Dan Malloy. Lamont received 582 votes (32%) to Malloy's 1,232 votes (68%). Since Lamont won more than 15% of the vote, he appeared on the
Lamont fills top public health, insurance agency jobs. [SEP] Thomas R. Lamont // Thomas R. Lamont Thomas R. Lamont was the United States Assistant Secretary of the Army (Manpower and Reserve Affairs), from June 22, 2009 to September 30, 2013. Thomas R. Lamont was educated at Illinois State University, graduating with a bachelor's degree in 1969, and at the University of Illinois College of Law, receiving a law degree in 1972. In the mid-1970s, he worked as Counsel to the Speaker of the Illinois House of Representatives. He later practiced law in Chicago at the firms of Gordon & Glickson and Altheimer & Gray, and at the Springfield, Illinois law firm of Brown,
Lamont fills top public health, insurance agency jobs. [SEP] James G. Haughton // 1980, Haughton moved to Los Angeles to run operations at the Charles R. Drew Postgraduate Medical School. He left Los Angeles in 1983 to head the health department in Houston, Texas but returned to Los Angeles in 1987 to become chief of staff for the King/Drew Medical Center. He became health policy advisor to the Los Angeles County Health Department in 1993 and its medical director in 1996, holding that position until his retirement in 2004. James G. Haughton James G. Haughton was a veteran public health administrator, serving in numerous capacities across the country, most recently as medical director
Lamont fills top public health, insurance agency jobs. [SEP] Ned Lamont // startups. Lamont has served on the board of trustees for the Conservation Services Group, Mercy Corps, the Norman Rockwell Museum, the YMCA, and the Young Presidents' Organization. He has served on the advisory boards of the Yale School of Management and the Brookings Institution. Lamont was first elected in 1987 as a selectman in the town of Greenwich, Connecticut, where he served for one term. He also served for three terms on the town's finance board and chaired the State Investment Advisory Council, which oversees the investment of the state pension funds. During his term as chair, the outperformance of
Lamont fills top public health, insurance agency jobs. [SEP] Lamont Hall // family. After finishing up in NFL, he decided to use his Clemson University teaching diploma, and wanted to teach Social Studies for the following years for many different grades. Lamont Hall James Lamont Hall is a teacher and former professional American football player who played tight end for six seasons for the Green Bay Packers and New Orleans Saints. He is now a schoolteacher, and has been since his retirement from NFL, teaching Social Studies. While playing tight end for the Green Bay Packers and the New Orleans Saints, he scored a total of 2 touchdowns, 127 Receiving Yards, and
The city of Atlanta has $56 million in its reserves. [SEP] Atlanta City Hall // meeting places for city business (including hotels and grocery stores), in 1853 mayor of Atlanta John Mims purchased the four-acre (16,000 m²) “Peters’s Reserve” from Richard Peters for $5,000. On this land (current site of the Georgia State Capitol) was built a two-story brick structure (with an additional two-story cupola) for the city hall as well as some court functions. Each floor was 70 by providing nearly of space. It opened on October 17, 1854 and served for three decades during which time it served as campgrounds for the occupying Union army during the war and was briefly the state
The city of Atlanta has $56 million in its reserves. [SEP] Shirley Franklin // without the tax increase, layoffs and pay cuts of Atlanta public safety officials would be imminent. According to the Atlanta Journal Constitution, in December 2008 Franklin announced that 222 city workers would lose their jobs to help fill a projected $50 million to $60 million budget shortfall. Most remaining city workers, including firefighters, will work fewer hours and suffer a pay cut as part of the budget cuts. Mayor Shirley Franklin has said that the deficits in the city of Atlanta are not because of excess city spending. In fact, according to the Atlanta Business Chronicle city spending actually ran
The city of Atlanta has $56 million in its reserves. [SEP] Peachtree-Pine shelter // in private donations have also been in part due to active opposition by neighborhood organizations. In 2008, for instance, the Whole Foods grocery store on Ponce de Leon Avenue cancelled a fund raising for the shelter after the Midtown Ponce Security Alliance had threatened the store with boycott. In late 2008 the City of Atlanta shut off water service to the shelter because of more than $160,000 in unpaid water and sewer bills. The Task Force won an injunction to have water service restored and also sued the City, claiming the City had been using a multi-pronged approach to try
The city of Atlanta has $56 million in its reserves. [SEP] Atlanta // $9.5 billion into Georgia's economy in 2017, with Atlanta garnering most of the projects. As a result, by the following year, Atlanta emerged as one of the all time most popular destinations for film production globally. Compared to other American cities, Atlanta's economy in the past had been disproportionately affected by the 2008 financial crisis and the subsequent recession, with the city's economy earning a ranking of 68 among 100 American cities in a September 2014 report due to an elevated unemployment rate, declining real income levels, and a depressed housing market. From 2010 to 2011, Atlanta saw a 0.9%
The city of Atlanta has $56 million in its reserves. [SEP] Mary Norwood // pensions, police overtime, and subsidies to several funds. Atlanta’s solid waste and capital finance funds were also downgraded. In June 2009, the City Council voted 8-7, to increase the Atlanta property tax rate for general operations from 7.12 mills to 10.12 mills, a 42 percent increase. Atlanta is one of the few big cities nationwide to raise property taxes that year. Mary Norwood voted against this increase, insisting that there was money to be found within Atlanta’s budget. Norwood filed to run in the 2017 Atlanta mayoral election in October 2016. Similar to the 2009 race, she has called for
The city of Atlanta has $56 million in its reserves. [SEP] SunTrust Park // Exhibit Hall Authority issued up to $397 million in bonds for the project. The county raised an additional $14 million from transportation taxes, and $10 million cash from businesses in the Cumberland Community Improvement District. The Braves contributed the remaining money for the park and The Battery Atlanta. In March 2015, a security filing from Braves owners Liberty Media allotted $672 million for SunTrust Park and $452 million for The Battery Atlanta, which adds up to a total cost of above $1.1 billion. The Braves will spend $181 million over 30 years to help pay off the county's bonds on
The city of Atlanta has $56 million in its reserves. [SEP] Atlanta Housing Authority // housing projects would be completed. For whites, there was Capitol Homes and Clark Howell Homes. For African Americans, the AHA built Herndon Homes, John Hope Homes, John Egan Homes, and Harris Homes. This amounted to 4,000 housing units accommodating 20,000 people. The total investment was $21 million to that point. City historian Franklin Garrett remarked humorously, "By 1940, federal funds have built considerably more housing in Atlanta than Federal representative William T. Sherman destroyed here in 1864", referring to the Union general who ordered the burning of Atlanta. With the onset of the war, Atlanta (unlike other cities) paused the
The city of Atlanta has $56 million in its reserves. [SEP] English Avenue and Vine City // crucial to the modern workforce. As of summer 2014, they have graduated their first class of trainees. There are multiple efforts underway to encourage and promote home ownership in Vine City and English Avenue. Invest Atlanta has a trust fund which provides up to 10% of the downpayment for a first time homeowner, up to $15,000. Home Atlanta 4.0 provides up to 5% of the house cost, but waives the first-time buyer requirement. Invest Atlanta and the Arthur M. Blank Foundation have also recently partnered up to provide $30 million in seed money for innovative and transformative non-profits to help
The city of Atlanta has $56 million in its reserves. [SEP] William H. Rogers Jr. // since January 2012, replacing James M. Wells, III. As of June 30, 2017 the bank has total assets of $207 billion and total deposits of $160 billion. In 2012, under his first year of tenure, profits jumped to US$1.96 billion, partly thanks to the sale of shares in the Coca-Cola Company. Rogers is a member of the Federal Advisory Committee of the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta. In 2012, he earned US$2.83 million. Rogers is a board member of the Boys & Girls Clubs of America and Operation HOPE, and chair of Achieve Atlanta. He is a member of Emory
The city of Atlanta has $56 million in its reserves. [SEP] Fund accounting // were compared with the estimate of $35 million. The $1 million difference was recorded as a credit to the fund balance. The city spent $31 million of its $34 million appropriation. A credit of $3 million was applied to the fund balance for the unspent amount. When the current fiscal period ended, its appropriation expired. The balance remaining in the general fund at that time is considered "unexpended". City government agencies are not allowed to spend the unexpended balance, even if their expenditures during the now-ended fiscal period were less than their share of the expired appropriation. A new appropriation
CVI: The impairment affecting children whose eyes are fine. [SEP] Cortical visual impairment // Cortical visual impairment Cortical visual impairment (CVI) is a form of visual impairment that is caused by a brain problem rather than an eye problem. (The latter is sometimes termed "ocular visual impairment" when discussed in contrast to cortical visual impairment.) Some people have both CVI and a form of ocular visual impairment. CVI is also sometimes known as cortical blindness, although most people with CVI are not totally blind. The term neurological visual impairment (NVI) covers both CVI and total cortical blindness. Delayed visual maturation, another form of NVI, is similar to CVI, except the child's visual difficulties resolve
CVI: The impairment affecting children whose eyes are fine. [SEP] Visual impairment // with best correction of less than 20/500 or a visual field of less than 10 degrees. This definition was set in 1972, and there is ongoing discussion as to whether it should be altered to officially include uncorrected refractive errors. Severely sight impaired Sight impaired Low vision In the UK, the Certificate of Vision Impairment (CVI) is used to certify patients as severely sight impaired or sight impaired. The accompanying guidance for clinical staff states: "The National Assistance Act 1948 states that a person can be certified as severely sight impaired if they are "so blind as to be unable
CVI: The impairment affecting children whose eyes are fine. [SEP] Cortical visual impairment // as meningitis and encephalitis. Symptoms of CVI usually include several (but not necessarily all) of the following: The presence of CVI does not necessarily mean that the person's brain is damaged in any other way, but it can often be accompanied by other neurological problems, the most common being epilepsy. Diagnosing CVI is difficult. A diagnosis is usually made when visual performance is poor but it is not possible to explain this from an eye examination. Before CVI was widely known among professionals, some would conclude that the patient was faking their problems or had for some reason engaged in
CVI: The impairment affecting children whose eyes are fine. [SEP] Cortical blindness // by perinatal ischemic stroke, encephalitis, and meningitis. Rarely, a patient with acquired cortical blindness may have little or no insight that they have lost vision, a phenomenon known as Anton–Babinski syndrome. Cortical blindness and cortical visual impairment (CVI), which refers to the partial loss of vision caused by cortical damage, are both classified as subsets of neurological visual impairment (NVI). NVI and its three subtypes—cortical blindness, cortical visual impairment, and delayed visual maturation—must be distinguished from ocular visual impairment in terms of their different causes and structural foci, the brain and the eye respectively. One diagnostic marker of this distinction
CVI: The impairment affecting children whose eyes are fine. [SEP] Cortical visual impairment // in a few months. Though the vision of a person with CVI may change, it rarely if ever becomes totally normal. The major causes of CVI are as follows: asphyxia, hypoxia (a lack of sufficient oxygen in the body’s blood cells), or ischemia (not enough blood supply to the brain), all of which may occur during the birth process; developmental brain defects; head injury; hydrocephalus (when the cerebrospinal fluid does not circulate properly around the brain, and collects in the head, putting pressure on the brain); a stroke involving the occipital lobe; and infections of the central nervous system, such
CVI: The impairment affecting children whose eyes are fine. [SEP] Cortical visual impairment // self-deception. However, there are now testing techniques that do not depend on the patient's words and actions, such as fMRI scanning, or the use of electrodes to detect responses to stimuli in both the retina and the brain. These can be used to verify that the problem is indeed due to a malfunction of the visual cortex and/or the posterior visual pathway. Cortical visual impairment Cortical visual impairment (CVI) is a form of visual impairment that is caused by a brain problem rather than an eye problem. (The latter is sometimes termed "ocular visual impairment" when discussed in contrast to
CVI: The impairment affecting children whose eyes are fine. [SEP] Computer vision syndrome // Computer vision syndrome Computer vision syndrome (CVS) is a condition resulting from focusing the eyes on a computer or other display device for protracted, uninterrupted periods of time and the eye muscles being unable to recover from the strain due to a lack of adequate sleep. Some symptoms of CVS include headaches, blurred vision, neck pain, fatigue, eye strain, dry eyes, irritated eyes, double vision, vertigo/dizziness, polyopia, and difficulty refocusing the eyes. These symptoms can be further aggravated by improper lighting conditions (i.e. glare, strong blue-spectrum backlights, or bright overhead lighting) or air moving past the eyes (e.g. overhead vents,
CVI: The impairment affecting children whose eyes are fine. [SEP] Occupational therapy // that may benefit from occupational therapy includes older adults, persons with traumatic brain injury, adults with potential to return to driving, and children with visual impairments. Visual impairments addressed by occupational therapists may be characterized into 2 types including low vision or a neurological visual impairment. An example of a neurological impairment is a cortical visual impairment (CVI) which is defined as “...abnormal or inefficient vision resulting from a problem or disorder affecting the parts of brain that provide sight”. The following section will discuss the role of occupational therapy when working with the visually impaired. Occupational therapy for older
CVI: The impairment affecting children whose eyes are fine. [SEP] Bonnet–Dechaume–Blanc syndrome // and severity of the AVMs. Diagnosis commonly occurs later in childhood and often occurs incidentally in asymptomatic patients or as a cause of visual impairment. The first symptoms are commonly found during routine vision screenings. A number of examinations can be used to determine the extent of the syndrome and its severity. Fluorescein angiography is quite useful in diagnosing the disease, and the use of ultrasonography and optical coherence tomography (OCT) are helpful in confirming the disease. Neuro-ophthalmic examinations reveal pupillary defects (see Marcus Gunn Pupil). Funduscopic examinations, examinations of the fundus of the eye, allow detection of arteriovenous malformations.
CVI: The impairment affecting children whose eyes are fine. [SEP] Childhood blindness // that can help such children in school. Schools for the blind are a form of management, however the limitations of using studies done in such schools has been recognized. Children that are enrolled presently, usually, had developed blindness 5 or more years prior to enrollment, consequently not reflecting current possible causes. About 66% of children with visual impairment also have one other disability (comorbidity), be it, intellectual disabilities, cerebral palsy, or hearing loss. Eye care/screening for children within primary health care is important as catching ocular disease issues can lead to better outcomes. The number of children who suffer from
Leticia Van de Putte "voted to give illegal immigrants in this country free health care--not emergency health care but total free health care. [SEP] Immigrant health care in the United States // required asking for patients’ citizenship statuses. It was ultimately withdrawn due to the belief that such a policy would delay immigrants from actively seeking care unless in extreme need, thereby contributing to overall higher incidences of medical problems in a community. In 2005 and 2006, proposed Senate and House of Representatives bills sought to decrease illegal immigration but additionally made it a felony for health care providers to service undocumented immigrants. Though the bills did not pass, much discourse erupted from health care organizations in response to them. The American Medical Association notably passed a policy called “Opposition to Criminalization
Leticia Van de Putte "voted to give illegal immigrants in this country free health care--not emergency health care but total free health care. [SEP] Patty Murray // emergency contraception. In July 2014, she introduced an amendment to a bill in the Senate to require health insurance plans to offer contraceptive coverage to patients regardless of employers' beliefs, religious or otherwise. Her amendment required 60 votes to move forward, and all but three Republicans voted against the measure. In May 2006, Murray, along with 38 of 44 Senate Democrats, voted in favor of the Comprehensive Immigration Reform Act of 2006 (S. 2611). The bill includes provisions to improve border security, increases fines and other punishments for employers of illegal immigrants, creation of a guest worker program (which includes
Leticia Van de Putte "voted to give illegal immigrants in this country free health care--not emergency health care but total free health care. [SEP] Leticia Van de Putte // 2015 mayoral election. After finishing first with 30% of the vote in the general election, Van de Putte qualified for the runoff election on June 13, 2015. Despite running a hard campaign, Van de Putte lost the runoff election 52-48 percent to Ivy Taylor. Uncontested primary elections are not shown. <nowiki>*</nowiki> Vote percentage include all of Bexar County with a total of 12,316 either voting in another municipal election or casting no ballot for San Antonio mayor. <br> Leticia Van de Putte Leticia R. San Miguel Van de Putte is an American politician from San Antonio, Texas. She represented the
Leticia Van de Putte "voted to give illegal immigrants in this country free health care--not emergency health care but total free health care. [SEP] Leticia Van de Putte // Leticia Van de Putte Leticia R. San Miguel Van de Putte is an American politician from San Antonio, Texas. She represented the 26th District in the Texas Senate from 1999-2015. From 1991 to 1999, Van de Putte was a member of the Texas House of Representatives. In 2014, she was the Democratic nominee for lieutenant governor but lost the general election, 58-38 percent, to her Republican senatorial colleague, Dan Patrick of Houston. Following that defeat, she then resigned from the Texas Senate to run for mayor of San Antonio, which she narrowly lost to Ivy Taylor, 52-48 percent. Van de
Leticia Van de Putte "voted to give illegal immigrants in this country free health care--not emergency health care but total free health care. [SEP] Leticia Van de Putte // her voice to be recognized over the male colleagues in the room?" Her question was immediately met with cheers and applause by the spectators in the gallery. The applause delayed the legislative session past the midnight deadline, effectively ending the legislative session without a vote on the bill. This bill was ultimately passed in a special session ordered by then Governor Rick Perry. On January 8, 2013, Van de Putte was elected President Pro Tempore of the Texas Senate's 83rd Regular Session. Coinciding with her announcement to run for Mayor of San Antonio, Van de Putte resigned from the Senate
Leticia Van de Putte "voted to give illegal immigrants in this country free health care--not emergency health care but total free health care. [SEP] Leticia Van de Putte // while in pharmacy school, she transferred to the University of Texas at Austin College of Pharmacy, from which she graduated in 1979. Upon graduation, she worked for her grandfather's pharmacy before buying her own business in the Loma Park area of San Antonio. She currently works part-time at the Davila Pharmacy on San Antonio’s West Side. Van de Putte became a Kellogg Fellow at Harvard University's John F. Kennedy School of Government in 1993. Van de Putte began her legislative career with her 1990 election to the Texas House of Representatives (District 115). Van de Putte represented Texas Senate District
Leticia Van de Putte "voted to give illegal immigrants in this country free health care--not emergency health care but total free health care. [SEP] Leticia Van de Putte // for governor against Republican Rick Perry, but instead decided to run for re-election in the Texas Senate in June 2009. On June 25, 2013, Wendy Davis gave an 11-hour filibuster in an attempt to run out a special legislative session so that a vote could not be held on Texas Senate Bill 5. At about 15 minutes to midnight, Van de Putte confronted the Presiding Officer, State Senator Robert L. Duncan, a Republican from Lubbock, who she said had ignored her repeated motions earlier. Van de Putte asked him, "at what point must a female senator raise her hand or
Leticia Van de Putte "voted to give illegal immigrants in this country free health care--not emergency health care but total free health care. [SEP] Economic impact of illegal immigrants in the United States // can't get non-emergency care unless they pay. They are ineligible for most other public benefits." Because of the U.S. Emergency Medical Treatment and Active Labor Act of 1986 (), most hospitals may not refuse anyone treatment for an emergency medical condition because of citizenship, legal status, or ability to pay. An example of the cost conflict between federal government, state and local government, and private institutions, the Immigration and Naturalization Service brings injured and ill illegal immigrants to hospital emergency rooms but does not pay for their medical care. Almost $190 million, or about 25 percent, of the uncompensated costs
Leticia Van de Putte "voted to give illegal immigrants in this country free health care--not emergency health care but total free health care. [SEP] Economic impact of illegal immigrants in the United States // Southwest border county hospitals incurred resulted from emergency medical treatment provided to illegal immigrants. At least two research studies have been done which attempt to discover the cost of health care for illegal immigrants by asking the illegal themselves. Moreover, studies have also shown that not providing illegal immigrants with a decent healthcare might actually cost the country in the long-run rather than save expenses. In 2000, researchers compared the perinatal outcomes and costs of illegal women with and without prenatal care and inferred the impact of denial of prenatal benefits to illegal immigrants in California. Nearly 10% of illegal
Leticia Van de Putte "voted to give illegal immigrants in this country free health care--not emergency health care but total free health care. [SEP] Leticia Van de Putte // once her successor Jose Menendez was elected, ending nearly 24 years of work at the Texas Capitol. At the national level, Van de Putte is an active and deeply involved member of many political organizations, including the National Assessment Governing Board, the American Legacy Foundation Board, and the National Conference of State Legislatures, of which she served as president from 2006 to 2007. In addition, she led the National Hispanic Caucus of State Legislators as president from 2003 to 2005. In 2008, Van de Putte served as a co-chair of the 2008 Democratic National Convention along with Governor Kathleen Sebelius
Immigration authorities are taking rosaries away from immigrants at the border. [SEP] Border Angels // protesters assembled at the U.S. Border Patrol station in Murrieta and physically blocked a bus attempting to drop off immigrants from Central America. Members of the Murrieta police force were among those who initially blocked the bus' entry path, and Morones witnessed about 25 anti-immigrant protesters banging their flags against the bus while shouting at the immigrants inside. Morones called the display, "the worst of the American spirit," and added that "most of the country isn't like that." The undocumented immigrants were flown to California from Texas in an attempt to relieve overcrowded conditions in U.S. Customs and Border Protection
Immigration authorities are taking rosaries away from immigrants at the border. [SEP] Border Angels // with Border Angels and its stance on undocumented migrants. Critics argue that Border Angels provides assistance to migrants who break U.S. immigration laws. Border Angels, however, provides only life-saving, humanitarian aid and notifies the U.S. Border Patrol before each desert water drop. It maintains a cordial working relationship with Border Patrol officers, as evidenced by the annual Children's Day celebrations and weekly events held in coordination with the Border Patrol at Border Field State Park, which is maintained by Border Patrol. While critics complain of "illegal immigration," Morones maintains current U.S. immigration laws make it impossible for most people from
Immigration authorities are taking rosaries away from immigrants at the border. [SEP] Border Angels // housing from an influx of unaccompanied minors. The situation was described as a “humanitarian crisis” by the Obama administration. Between 2012 and 2016 Border Angels has been involved in the annual binational Children's Day event that has involved the opening of the emergency gate on the border at Friendship Park between Border State Park on the United States side and Friendship Park (San Diego–Tijuana) in Playas de Tijuana. Working alongside United States Border Patrol, mixed status families often including children on the US side who hold Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals were given the opportunity to briefly hug their families
Immigration authorities are taking rosaries away from immigrants at the border. [SEP] Border Angels // recently deported from the United States to Mexico. In April 2016, 20 deported women graduated from a hair stylist course supported by Border Angels at the Desayunador Salesiano "Padre Chava" food hall for indigents in Tijuana, B.C., Mexico. In his autobiography, Morones writes that Border Angels "came into existence in 1986, but did not have a name until 2001," when the name was coined by Univision TV host Don Francisco. [Source: ] During an interview with Morones on his TV show "Sabado Gigante," Francisco called him a "border angel," which led Morones to adopt the name for his organization. Over
Immigration authorities are taking rosaries away from immigrants at the border. [SEP] Border Angels // the years, Border Angels has provided a public counterpoint to various Minutemen and other border vigilante groups that have protested against immigration along the border and against the hiring of undocumented workers. Morones has accused the Minutemen and other groups of racism. In early 2016, Border Angels was able to help identify and locate the family of a young man who spent 16 years living on life support in nursing care, unconscious and with an unknown identity following a 1999 automobile crash near the border. Morones worked with representatives from the Border Patrol agents’ union, state legislators, the University of
Immigration authorities are taking rosaries away from immigrants at the border. [SEP] Border Angels // Mexico and Central America to enter the United States with documentation through a port of entry. “The biggest myth out there is that these people should ‘get in line’ and come here legally,” Morones said. “There is no line. These people do not qualify for visas. There is no legal way for these people to come into the country.” Morones also notes that rather than being a financial burden, immigrants contribute greatly to the U.S. economy through work and taxes. Morones has spoken of Border Angels' work in numerous debates and appearances on campuses and on television and radio. Dan
Immigration authorities are taking rosaries away from immigrants at the border. [SEP] Protests against the Trump administration family separation policy // made up of tents or other makeshift facilities. Illegal border crossing is a crime in the United States. However, migrants attempting to apply for asylum in the United States are also being denied entry. In addition, immigration activists allege that parents are not being reunited with their children after their parents' sentences in detention are finished. Sessions also announced that the United States would no longer accept asylum applications for migrants who are victims of domestic abuse or gang violence. Inspired by the viral photo of a crying two-year-old girl looking up at her mother, on June 16, 2018, a
Immigration authorities are taking rosaries away from immigrants at the border. [SEP] Border Angels // which fortified border fences and established militarized areas along some sections of the U.S.-Mexico border, is responsible for hundreds of deaths of migrants who tried to enter the United States through difficult terrain, often perishing in extreme weather conditions. Gatekeeper has forced border crossers to move to more dangerous terrain, resulting in increased deaths. “They are forced to cross in harsher areas,” Morones said. "It's inhumane." When Gatekeeper was begun under the Clinton administration, 14 miles of corrugated-steel panels were welded into sections of fence dividing the United States and Mexico between the Pacific Ocean and Otay Mesa, and additional
Immigration authorities are taking rosaries away from immigrants at the border. [SEP] Elvira Arellano // to speak at the church Our Lady Queen of Angels. She was deported on August 20, 2007. Her son Saul remained in the U.S., but visited her in Mexico. Elvira Arellano continued her activism for migrant rights in the Mexican state of Michoacan with La Familia Latina Unida - Sin Fronteras (Latina Family United - Without Borders), supporting families divided by U.S. deportations, and Central American immigrants detained or affected by the violence in Mexico. On March 18, 2014, Arellano presented herself to U.S. Border Patrol officials at the Otay Mesa border crossing in San Diego, California, and requested asylum
Immigration authorities are taking rosaries away from immigrants at the border. [SEP] 2006 United States immigration reform protests // student who had thrown a water bottle at the "Border Guardians", they followed the police officers calling for them to let the student go. As the situation escalated violence broke out and 6 were arrested with dozens being pepper-sprayed. The next day the police arrested the leader of the Border Guardians, Roy Warden, for charges including assault and starting a fire in a public park. Because of the controversy, organizers of the protests encouraged protesters to leave their Mexican flags at home, with Cardinal Roger Mahony telling Los Angeles protesters to not fly any flag other than the United States
Marco Rubio thinks that government shouldn't be in the health care business at all. [SEP] Political positions of Marco Rubio // 2015 San Bernardino attack, claiming that it would open the door to criminals accessing smartphones and would merely result in terrorists switching to foreign encrypted software to which there was no backdoor. Rubio has stated that he would repeal the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, and replace it with tax credits and less regulation. In an opinion piece on the website "Politico", Rubio proposed an up-front tax credit to be used for health insurance, along with federally-supported, state-based high-risk pools for those with pre-existing conditions to purchase health insurance and the expansion of health savings accounts (HSAs). The plan
Marco Rubio thinks that government shouldn't be in the health care business at all. [SEP] Marco Rubio // repeal it and replace it with tax credits and less regulation. He opposes net neutrality, a principle of requiring Internet service providers to treat data on the Internet the same regardless of its source or content. With regard to immigration, he supports securing the country's borders and then offering a legal status to people who came to the United States unlawfully. He also believes there should be more vetting of refugees and that seeking a single comprehensive immigration reform bill would be delusional. Rubio is an outspoken opponent of abortion. In an interview with Chris Cuomo of CNN, he stated
Marco Rubio thinks that government shouldn't be in the health care business at all. [SEP] Political positions of Marco Rubio // also calls for Medicaid to be funded through per-capita block grants to states, which would eliminate federal mandates, while Medicare would be transitioned into a premium support system, like Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D. Rubio pushed for elimination of the "risk corridors" used by the federal government to compensate insurers for their losses as part of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA). The risk corridors were intended to be funded by profitable insurers participating in the PPACA. However, since insurer losses have significantly exceeded their profits in the program, the risk corridors have been depleted. His efforts
Marco Rubio thinks that government shouldn't be in the health care business at all. [SEP] Political positions of Marco Rubio // Political positions of Marco Rubio Marco Rubio is a Republican politician in the United States. He is a United States Senator from Florida, and was a candidate for the Republican nomination for president of the United States in the 2016 election. Rubio supports balancing the federal budget, while prioritizing defense spending; on climate change, he believes it is real and humans are contributing to it, but questions the extent to which humans are responsible for it and he asserts that other nations like China are primarily responsible; on Obamacare, he wants to repeal it and replace it with tax credits
Marco Rubio thinks that government shouldn't be in the health care business at all. [SEP] Marco Rubio // issues ranging from humanitarian crises in Haiti to the Russian incursion into Ukraine, and has been a frequent and prominent critic of President Obama's efforts in the field of national security. On May 17, 2016, Rubio broke from the Republican majority in his support of President Obama's request for a $2 billion funding for emergency spending toward the Zika virus at a time when Florida accounted for roughly 20% of the recorded cases of Zika in the U.S., acknowledging that it was the president's request but furthering that "it’s really the scientists’ requests, the doctors’ request, the public health sector’s
Marco Rubio thinks that government shouldn't be in the health care business at all. [SEP] Political positions of Marco Rubio // makes the change. This is because the "provision would shift the state into a different time zone permanently", something which requires a federal regulatory action or an act of Congress. The League of Conservation Voters gave Rubio a lifetime score of 9% for votes on environmental issues. Rubio has stated that he would cap government regulation on businesses. He has praised 'on-demand' businesses, such as Uber and AirBnB, as drivers of innovation that should be protected from government interference, and has criticized efforts by New York City to limit those businesses. In an op-ed for "Politico", Rubio criticized net neutrality
Marco Rubio thinks that government shouldn't be in the health care business at all. [SEP] Political positions of Marco Rubio // the Government to fulfill that promise. After all, 'to say to [Moda], 'The joke is on you. You shouldn't have trusted us,' is hardly worthy of our great government." On immigration, Rubio supports securing the country's borders and then offering a legal status to people who came to the United States unlawfully, and he also believes there should be more vetting of refugees; he now opposes seeking a single comprehensive all-in-one immigration reform bill (which he calls delusional), and instead wants to secure the borders and only then discuss legal status. Regarding refugees of the Syrian Civil War, Rubio is
Marco Rubio thinks that government shouldn't be in the health care business at all. [SEP] Political positions of Ron Paul // or AIDS ... People should have freedom of choice. We certainly should respect the law and the law says that states should be able to determine this." Paul believes that the Veterans Administration should not be building more hospitals, and that VA hospitals should instead be phased out. He believes that government should pay to treat veterans in private hospitals, arguing they will get better care more cost-effectively. Paul has also stated that "The government shouldn't be in the medical business." He also thinks that the talk about swine flu and getting vaccinated by the Federal Government is being blown
Marco Rubio thinks that government shouldn't be in the health care business at all. [SEP] HealthCare.gov // House Democratic Caucus. Republican Senator Marco Rubio has drafted legislation as a result of the controversy to delay the individual mandate. The proposed legislation has drawn scattered Democratic support. Professor and author Victor Lombardi commented to "Bloomberg Businessweek" that the website's issues "don’t sound catastrophic", and he added that history "may judge this project as the catalyst that revolutionized the United States health-care system" such that "no one will remember a few hiccups at launch." Although the law that decreed the creation of HealthCare.gov has been divisive and political speculation has taken place, polling done by the Gallup organization around
Marco Rubio thinks that government shouldn't be in the health care business at all. [SEP] Marco Rubio // done under present circumstances. He supports working with allies to set up no-fly zones in Syria to protect civilians from Bashar al-Assad. He favors collection of bulk metadata for purposes of national security. He has said that gun control laws consistently fail to achieve their purpose and as of 2017 had received $3,303,355 in donations from the National Rifle Association. He is supportive of the Trans Pacific Partnership, saying that the U.S. risks being excluded from global trade unless it is more open to trade. He is wary of China regarding national security and human rights, and wants to boost
5 convicted in meningitis outbreak case; 1 acquitted. [SEP] New England Compounding Center meningitis outbreak // against six individuals, including Cadden and Chin. The RICO count alleged 68 overt acts—including 25 counts of second-degree murder in seven states against Cadden and Chin. If convicted, Cadden and Chin faced life in prison. Cadden was ultimately convicted of racketeering charges but acquitted of second-degree murder charges in March 2017. He was sentenced to 9 years in prison. In October 2017, Chin was convicted of racketeering and mail fraud but acquitted of second-degree murder as well. On December 20, 2016, director of sales, Robert A. Ronzio, pled guilty to unrelated conspiracy charges of defrauding the FDA, actions that were
5 convicted in meningitis outbreak case; 1 acquitted. [SEP] New England Compounding Center meningitis outbreak // the company filed for bankruptcy and U.S. District Judge Dennis Saylor ruled that meningitis lawsuits pending in Massachusetts federal court would be consolidated and allowed to move forward. By mid-December, over 400 lawsuits had been filed against NECC. On December 17, federal prosecutors in Boston unsealed a 131-count federal criminal indictment related to the outbreak. It charged 14 former NECC employees, including president Barry Cadden and pharmacist Glenn Chin, with a host of criminal offenses. It alleged that from 2006 to 2012, NECC knowingly sent out drugs that were mislabeled, unsanitary, or contaminated—forming the basis for a massive RICO indictment
5 convicted in meningitis outbreak case; 1 acquitted. [SEP] 2005 South Wales E. coli O157 outbreak // for the outbreak rests squarely on the shoulders of William Tudor". Despite the death of Mason Jones, the Crown Prosecution Service decided against seeking a conviction for manslaughter, and William Tudor was eventually convicted after pleading guilty to 7 food hygiene offences and was sentenced to one year in prison. He was released after serving 12 weeks of that sentence. The Public Inquiry into the outbreak was led by Professor Hugh Pennington, who had also presided over the Inquiry into the Lanarkshire outbreak in 1996. The report was published on 19 March 2009. The Public Inquiry included more than 45,000
5 convicted in meningitis outbreak case; 1 acquitted. [SEP] New England Compounding Center meningitis outbreak // discovered during the compounding investigation. Carla Conigliaro, majority owner of NECC, and her husband, Douglas Conigliaro, pled guilty to withdrawing cash from their bank accounts in small amounts, after the investigation began, to avoid financial reporting requirements. Carla Conigliaro was sentenced to one year of probation and ordered to pay a fine of $4,500, and Douglas Conigliaro was sentenced to two years of probation and ordered to pay a fine of $55,000. In May 2015, federal bankruptcy judge Henry Boroff approved a $200 million settlement plan that would set aside funds for victims of the outbreak and their families. The
5 convicted in meningitis outbreak case; 1 acquitted. [SEP] Doctors' trial // the chief prosecutor was James M. McHaney. The indictment was filed on 25 October 1946; the trial lasted from 9 December that year until 20 August 1947. Of the 23 defendants, 7 were acquitted and 7 received death sentences; the remainder received prison sentences ranging from 10 years to life imprisonment. The accused faced four charges, including: The tribunal largely dropped count 1, stating that the charge was beyond its jurisdiction. I — Indicted G — Indicted and found guilty All of the criminals sentenced to death were hanged on June 2, 1948 in Landsberg prison, Bavaria. For some, the
5 convicted in meningitis outbreak case; 1 acquitted. [SEP] New England Compounding Center meningitis outbreak // used improper sterilization and testing techniques, unsafe practices, falsified cleaning logs, and ordered pharmacy technicians to fraudulently mislabel vials. Chin was the first to be charged in the ongoing inquiry. On December 17, 2014, 14 former NECC executives and technicians, including co-founder and president Barry Cadden, were indicted on a host of federal charges related to the outbreak. Most seriously, Cadden and Chin were charged with helping orchestrate a massive racketeering conspiracy that led directly to 25 of the deaths. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) traced the outbreak to contaminated methylprednisolone (MPA) used for epidural steroid injections.
5 convicted in meningitis outbreak case; 1 acquitted. [SEP] Huddersfield grooming gang // A further 31 defendants had been charged with sexual offences committed between 2005 and 2012 in August 2018. 27 men were accused of sexual offences including rape and trafficking against 18 girls aged between 11 and 17, with two further women accused of child neglect. Due to the large number of defendants, the court proceedings against them were conducted in three separate trials. Reporting restrictions on the trial were imposed in November 2017 under the 1981 Contempt of Court Act to avoid prejudice on subsequent trials. However, the ban on reporting was criticised by the far right, claiming cover-up as
5 convicted in meningitis outbreak case; 1 acquitted. [SEP] HIV trial in Libya // on AIDS. On 6 May 2004 the Criminal Court in Benghazi sentenced to death by firing squad; Ashraf al-Hadzhudzh, Kristiyana Valtcheva, Nasya Nenova, Valentina Siropulo, Valya Chervenyashka, and Snezhana Dimitrova, finding them guilty for the intentional infection of 426 Libyan children with AIDS. Dr Zdravko Georgiev was found guilty of illegal transactions in foreign currency and sentenced to four years in prison and a fine of 600 dinars. He was ordered released for time served. In public after the conviction Colizzi called the scientific evidence used against them "so irrational it's unbelievable" and said the verdict read "like a bad
5 convicted in meningitis outbreak case; 1 acquitted. [SEP] International criminal law // been completed, resulting in three convictions, one acquittal, six had the charges against them dismissed, two had the charges against them withdrawn, one had his case declared inadmissible, and four died before trial. An example to illustrate the Court’s proceedings is Thomas Lubanga, 51, a Congolese warlord and the first person convicted by the Court for his crimes of recruiting and using child soldiers. In March 2012, Lubanga was found guilty and sentenced to 14 years in prison for abducting boys and girls under the age of 15 and forcing them to fight in for his army, the Force Patriotique
5 convicted in meningitis outbreak case; 1 acquitted. [SEP] Canadian Red Cross // at the time, was put on trial for his role in the scandal. The first trial, in Toronto before the Superior Court of Justice, resulted in an acquittal. He had been charged with four counts of criminal negligence causing bodily harm and one of common nuisance. The counts of criminal negligence were specific to four victims who had contracted HIV from tainted blood. The second trial, in Hamilton, also before the Superior Court of Justice, resulted in charges being withdrawn. The charges were six counts of common nuisance and "stemmed from an allegation he endangered the public by failing to
A list compiles Andy Rooney's wry observations on a variety of topics. [SEP] Andy Rooney // two-volume VHS tape set of the best of Rooney's commentaries and field reports, called "The Andy Rooney Television Collection — His Best Minutes." In 2006, CBS released three DVDs of his more recent commentaries, "Andy Rooney On Almost Everything, Things That Bother Andy Rooney," and "Andy Rooney's Solutions". Rooney's final regular appearance on "60 Minutes" was on October 2, 2011, after 33 years on the show. It was his 1,097th commentary. He claimed on "Larry King Live" to have a liberal bias, stating, "There is just no question that I, among others, have a liberal bias. I mean, I'm consistently
A list compiles Andy Rooney's wry observations on a variety of topics. [SEP] Andy Rooney // numerous books, such as "Common Nonsense", which came out in 2002, and "Years of Minutes", probably his best-known work, released in 2003. He penned a regular syndicated column for Tribune Media Services that ran in many newspapers in the United States, and which has been collected in book form. He won three Emmy Awards for his essays, which numbered over 1,000. He was awarded a Lifetime Achievement Emmy in 2003. Rooney's renown made him a frequent target of parodies and impersonations by a diverse group of comedic figures, including Frank Caliendo, Rich Little and Beavis. In 1993, CBS released a
A list compiles Andy Rooney's wry observations on a variety of topics. [SEP] Andy Rooney // Andy Rooney Andrew Aitken Rooney (January 14, 1919 – November 4, 2011) was an American radio and television writer who was best known for his weekly broadcast "A Few Minutes with Andy Rooney", a part of the CBS News program "60 Minutes" from 1978 to 2011. His final regular appearance on "60 Minutes" aired on October 2, 2011. He died one month later on November 4, 2011 at age 92. Andrew Aitken Rooney was born in Albany, New York, the son of Walter Scott Rooney (1888–1959) and Ellinor (Reynolds) Rooney (1886–1980). He attended The Albany Academy, and later attended Colgate
A list compiles Andy Rooney's wry observations on a variety of topics. [SEP] Andy Rooney // liberal in my opinions." In a controversial 1999 book, Rooney self-identified as agnostic, but by 2004 he was calling himself an atheist. He reaffirmed this in 2008. Over the years, many of his editorials poked fun at the concept of God and organized religion. Increased speculation on this was brought to a head by a series of comments he made regarding Mel Gibson's film "The Passion of the Christ" (2004). Though Rooney has been called Irish-American, he once said "I'm proud of my Irish heritage, but I'm not Irish. I'm not even Irish-American. I am American, period." In 2005, when
A list compiles Andy Rooney's wry observations on a variety of topics. [SEP] Andy Rooney // segment "Point/Counterpoint" featuring Shana Alexander and James Kilpatrick. The segment proved popular enough with viewers that beginning in the fall of 1978, it was seen in alternate weeks with the debate segment. At the end of the 1978–1979 season, "Point/Counterpoint" was dropped altogether. In the segment, Rooney typically offered satire on a trivial everyday issue, such as the cost of groceries, annoying relatives, or faulty Christmas presents. Rooney's appearances on "A Few Minutes with Andy Rooney" often included whimsical lists, e.g., types of milk, bottled water brands, car brands, sports mascots, etc. In later years, his segments became more political
A list compiles Andy Rooney's wry observations on a variety of topics. [SEP] 60 Minutes // feistiness of "Crossfire". From 1978 to 2011, the program usually ended with a (usually light-hearted and humorous) commentary by Andy Rooney expounding on topics of wildly varying import, ranging from international politics, to economics, and to personal philosophy on everyday life. One recurring topic was measuring the amount of coffee in coffee cans. Rooney's pieces, particularly one in which he referred to actor Mel Gibson as a "wacko", on occasion led to complaints from viewers. In 1990, Rooney was suspended without pay for three months by then-CBS News President David Burke, because of the negative publicity around his saying that
A list compiles Andy Rooney's wry observations on a variety of topics. [SEP] Hunter Davies // Paul Gascoigne and Dwight Yorke. The Rooney biography led to a successful libel action in 2008 by David Moyes, the manager of his former club, Everton. He has also ghostwritten politician John Prescott's 2008 autobiography, "Prezza, My Story: Pulling no Punches". He writes a football column for the "New Statesman". A compilation of these articles was released as a book, "The Fan", in 2005 by Pomona Press. Davies writes "Confessions of a Collector" in "The Guardian"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s Weekend colour magazine. He has written a book about his collections with the same title. Davies was appointed Officer of the Order of the
A list compiles Andy Rooney's wry observations on a variety of topics. [SEP] Andy Rooney // return to the network, Rooney wrote and appeared in several primetime specials for CBS, including "In Praise of New York City" (1974), the Peabody Award-winning "Mr. Rooney Goes to Washington" (1975), "Mr. Rooney Goes to Dinner" (1978), and "Mr. Rooney Goes to Work" (1977). Transcripts of these specials are contained in the book "A Few Minutes with Andy Rooney", as well as of some of the earlier collaborations with Reasoner. Rooney's "end-of-show" segment on "60 Minutes", "A Few Minutes with Andy Rooney" (originally "Three Minutes or So With Andy Rooney"), began in 1978, as a summer replacement for the debate
A list compiles Andy Rooney's wry observations on a variety of topics. [SEP] Andy Rooney // period, he wrote public affairs programs for CBS News, such as "The Twentieth Century". Rooney wrote his first television essay in 1964 called "An Essay on Doors", "a longer-length precursor of the type" that he did on "60 Minutes", according to CBS News's biography of him. From 1962 to 1968, he collaborated with CBS News correspondent Harry Reasoner, Rooney writing and producing and Reasoner narrating. They wrote on CBS News specials such as "An Essay on Bridges" (1965), "An Essay on Hotels" (1966), "An Essay on Women" (1967), and "The Strange Case of the English Language" (1968). In 1968, he
A list compiles Andy Rooney's wry observations on a variety of topics. [SEP] Andy Rooney // as well. Despite being best known for his television presence on "60 Minutes", Rooney always considered himself a writer who incidentally appeared on television behind his famous walnut table, which he had made himself. Rooney made a number of comments which elicited strong reactions from fans and producers alike. Rooney wrote a column in 1992 that posited that it was "silly" for Native Americans to complain about team names like the Redskins, in which he wrote in part, "The real problem is, we took the country away from the Indians, they want it back and we're not going to give
“The flu killed 80,000 Americans last year according to the CDC.” [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic // It is often stated that about 36,000 die from the seasonal flu in the U.S. each year, and this is frequently understood as an indication that the H1N1 strain was not as severe as seasonal influenza. The 36,000 estimate was presented in a 2003 study by CDC scientists published in the "Journal of the American Medical Association" but only refers to a period from 1990–91 through 1998–99. During those years, the number of estimated deaths ranged from 17,000 to 52,000, with an average of about 36,000. The "JAMA" study also looked at seasonal influenza-associated deaths over a 23-year period, from
“The flu killed 80,000 Americans last year according to the CDC.” [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic in the United States // vaccine was beginning to be widely distributed to the general public by several states. On December 23, 2009 the CDC reported a reduction of the disease by 59% percent and the disease was expected to end in the United States in January 2010. On January 15, 2010, the CDC released new estimate figures for swine flu, saying it has sickened about 55 million Americans and killed about 11,160 from April through mid-December. On February 12, 2010, the CDC released updated estimate figures for swine flu, reporting that, in total, 57 million Americans had been sickened, 257,000 had been hospitalised and
“The flu killed 80,000 Americans last year according to the CDC.” [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic // Finelli, a flu surveillance official with the CDC. Estimating deaths from influenza is also a complicated process. In 2005, influenza only appeared on the death certificates of 1,812 people in the US. The average annual US death toll from flu is, however, estimated to be 36,000. The CDC explains: "[I]nfluenza is infrequently listed on death certificates of people who die from flu-related complications" and hence, "Only counting deaths where influenza was included on a death certificate would be a gross underestimation of influenza's true impact". Influenza surveillance information on the 2009 H1N1 flu pandemic is available, but almost no studies
“The flu killed 80,000 Americans last year according to the CDC.” [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic in the United States // 15, 2009. The CDC distributed a vaccine for the novel flu strain. using mechanisms already in place for its Vaccines for Children (VFC) program. On October 24, 2009, President Barack Obama declared Swine Flu a national emergency in the United States. On November 12, 2009, the CDC reported an estimated 22 million Americans had been infected with 2009 A H1N1 and 4,000 Americans have died. On December 10, 2009, the CDC reported an estimated 50 million Americans or 1 in 6 people had been infected with the 2009 A H1N1 Virus and 10,000 American had died, by which time the
“The flu killed 80,000 Americans last year according to the CDC.” [SEP] Pandemic H1N1/09 virus // virus in the US. This is sometimes compared to the 36,000 people per year who die from the "common flu", mostly in winter, although this number is an estimate. The death rate of H1N1 in the US can be calculated as less than 0.02% from November 2009 figures from the CDC, and has been explicitly calculated as 0.026% in England. Existing vaccines against seasonal flu provide no protection. Vaccines were released in North America in late October. Production may be 3 billion doses per year rather than the earlier estimate of 5 billion. On May 22, 2009, World Health Organization
“The flu killed 80,000 Americans last year according to the CDC.” [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic in the United States // Toward the end of June 2009, the number of deaths related to the virus in the US surpassed those of all other countries as well. On June 25, the CDC released information revealing that there were more than likely over one million (1,000,000) cases of the disease in the US, most of which had not been reported or diagnosed. Deaths relating to this new strain of influenza began appearing in the US in late April, and by early June 15, states had reported fatalities related to or directly occurring from the virus. These deaths totaled at 4,000 as of November
“The flu killed 80,000 Americans last year according to the CDC.” [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic // 1976–77 and 1998–99. During that period, estimates of respiratory and circulatory influenza-associated deaths ranged from about 5,000 to about 52,000, with an average of about 25,000. While the 36,000 number is often cited, it's important to note that during that decade, influenza A (H3N2) was the predominant virus during most of the seasons, and H3N2 influenza viruses are typically associated with higher death rates. CDC believes that the range of deaths over the past 31 years (~3,000 to ~49,000) is a more accurate representation of the unpredictability and variability of flu-associated deaths. The annual toll from seasonal influenza in the
“The flu killed 80,000 Americans last year according to the CDC.” [SEP] 2017–18 United States flu season // that year hadn't "changed enough from previous seasons to be considered a novel strain." In the first week of February, deaths from influenza and pneumonia were responsible for one of every ten deaths in the US, with 4,064 from pneumonia or influenza recorded in the third week of 2018, according to CDC data. The CDC also reported 63 child deaths at that point, half of which were not considered medically high risk, and only about 20 percent who were vaccinated. Only two of those deaths were babies under six months old. On February 9, 2018, the CDC announced that the
“The flu killed 80,000 Americans last year according to the CDC.” [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic in the United States // much worse this is than seasonal flu. So far it's looking like it's not that serious. CNN stated on April 28, 2009 that there were at least 800 deaths in the U.S. due to normal influenza in each individual week between January 1 and April 18, which is higher than the combined worldwide death toll for the swine flu. As of November 19, 2009, the official death toll attributed directly to the novel H1N1 and seasonal influenza was 877. This total exceeds the 849 deaths directly attributed to seasonal influenza in 2006. Many of the other deaths commonly attributed to
“The flu killed 80,000 Americans last year according to the CDC.” [SEP] Flu season // this number was actually lower in 2009. According to an article in "Clinical Infectious Diseases", published in 2011, the estimated health burden of 2009 Pandemic Influenza A (H1N1), between April 2009 to April 2010, was "approximately 60.8 million cases (range: 43.3–89.3 million), 274,304 hospitalizations (195,086–402,719), and 12,469 deaths (8,868–18,306)" "in the United States due to pH1N1." The 2012–13 flu season was particularly harsh in the United States, where the majority of states were reporting high rates of influenza-like illness. The Centers for Disease Control reported that the available flu vaccine was 60% effective. It further recommended that all persons over
Taiwan's 'holy pig' festival cruel, says rights group. [SEP] Shen Dzu // Shen Dzu Shen Dzu or God Pig, sometimes known as Holy pig (Traditional Chinese: 神豬, Simplified Chinese: 神猪; Mandarin Pinyin: shénzhū, Wade–Giles: shen-chu, Hokkien POJ: sîn-tu), are pigs that have been chronically fattened for use in Hakka religious and cultural ceremonies, for example, the New Year Lunar celebration in Sanxia, northern Taiwan. Pigs are fattened in a process similar to (and as controversial as) gavage to make them as large as possible in preparation for contests and awards at the festival. The heaviest pig is declared the winner and the owner may receive a prize. The winning pig and other
Taiwan's 'holy pig' festival cruel, says rights group. [SEP] Shen Dzu // pigs entered into the contest are ritually killed as a sacrifice to a city god or a local deity, a popular one being the deified Buddhist monk Qingshui Zushi. After being sacrificed, the hair of the winning pig is removed or the bristles shaved into patterns, and the skin is stretched across a metal frame. Further decorations are added such as placing a pineapple in the pig's mouth. The stretched skin, along with the carcasses or stretched skins of the other fattened pigs, are then paraded on a float. Many Holy pigs end up weighing over 800 kg whereas a
Taiwan's 'holy pig' festival cruel, says rights group. [SEP] Lychee and Dog Meat Festival // humanely and that "eating dog is no different from eating pork or beef". Animal rights activists and campaigners, however, claim that the animals are "treated cruelly", based on photographs of the event. Many dogs suffer before being killed, there are videos of dogs being beaten to death with metal bars, skinned alive, boiled alive and suffer many diseases. A witness claimed that some of the dogs eaten appeared to be stolen household pets, judging by their collars. A retired school teacher, Yang Xiaoyun, paid ¥150,000 to rescue 360 dogs and dozens of cats from the festival in 2014, and ¥7,000
Taiwan's 'holy pig' festival cruel, says rights group. [SEP] Lychee and Dog Meat Festival // humans is not Western. It's a transcultural phenomenon". The director of Animal Protection and Crisis Response for Humane Society International explained in an article on CNN the reasons for his opposition to the festival and called on the Yulin government to cancel the festival. An article in 2016 that was written by the BBC noted that the dog meat festival began in China amid widespread criticism, saying, "Activists say the event is cruel, and this year a petition calling for it to be banned collected 11 million signatures." An article in "The Guardian" by Jill Robinson said that the dog
Taiwan's 'holy pig' festival cruel, says rights group. [SEP] Lunar New Year Fair // example, in 2007, students from various schools set up stalls to sell many special products which are related to the pig, for example Pig Tissue Holder, Fatty Pork Chop Scarf, etc. Traditionally, the Governor of Hong Kong visited the fair annually, usually in Victoria Park. The Chief Executive of Hong Kong continues this tradition. In 2006, fairs were held in: In 2007, fairs were held in: Guangzhou is said to be the source of the Lunar New Year Fair. During the rule of the PRC, the Lunar New Year Fair was interrupted only once, for a few years during the
Taiwan's 'holy pig' festival cruel, says rights group. [SEP] Spring Scream // Spring Scream The Spring Scream () is an outdoor music festival held in early April each year at Kenting, Pingtung County, Taiwan. The festival showcases a variety of music styles from bands both from Taiwan and overseas. Each year the festival adds the name of the current Chinese astrological animal to its name. The festival is organised by two expatriate Americans, Wade Davis and Jimi Moe, and has grown significantly since its beginnings in 1995. The event length has been between 2 and 11 days and as many as 300 acts on 8 stages. It also features a film festival,
Taiwan's 'holy pig' festival cruel, says rights group. [SEP] Mondo Cane // a celebration that recurs every five years, in a matter of hours, dozens of pigs are slaughtered by beating on their heads with wooden poles and eaten, after which the partly cannibalistic community returns to its perpetual state of hunger. Dogs, however, are fed and treated with affection and respect. At the Pet Haven Cemetery in Pasadena, California, dog owners mourn their beloved. In Taipei, Taiwan, dogs are grown, butchered and skinned alive for local dog meat gourmets. In Rome, hundreds of chicks are tinged in many colors and then dried at 50 degrees Celsius to be included in Easter
Taiwan's 'holy pig' festival cruel, says rights group. [SEP] Spring Scream // art exhibits, DJs, stalls, food vendors and camping. Spring Scream The Spring Scream () is an outdoor music festival held in early April each year at Kenting, Pingtung County, Taiwan. The festival showcases a variety of music styles from bands both from Taiwan and overseas. Each year the festival adds the name of the current Chinese astrological animal to its name. The festival is organised by two expatriate Americans, Wade Davis and Jimi Moe, and has grown significantly since its beginnings in 1995. The event length has been between 2 and 11 days and as many as 300 acts on
Taiwan's 'holy pig' festival cruel, says rights group. [SEP] Dog meat // 2,000 dogs during the Yulin festival. There are several campaigns to stop the festival; more than 3,000,000 people have signed petitions against it on Weibo (China's equivalent of Twitter). One of the petitions, addressed to the Chinese Minister of Agriculture, Chen Wu, reads "Do the humane thing by saying no to this festival and save the lives of countless dogs that will fall victim to this event – an event that will butcher, skin alive, beat to death etc. thousands of innocent dogs." Prior to the 2014 festival, doctors and nurses staff were ordered not to eat dog meat there,
Taiwan's 'holy pig' festival cruel, says rights group. [SEP] Lychee and Dog Meat Festival // Because of the social media campaigns, the number of dogs slaughtered has steadily decreased since 2013 to 1,000 in 2016. An article in Time said that, "the festival is more than an animal rights issue. It is a public health concern." In an interview with The New York Times, professor Peter J. Li of the University of Houston–Downtown said in response to the claim that dog meat promoters accused Chinese activists of introducing a harmful Western ideology into China that opposition to eating dog meat at the festival began with the Chinese themselves, as "the bond between companion animals and
An image shows reported cases of "flesh eating bacteria" in 2019. [SEP] Campylobacteriosis // of 1000–10,000 bacteria for humans. In January 2013, the UK's Food Standards Agency warned that two-thirds of all raw chicken bought from UK shops was contaminated with campylobacter, affecting an estimated half a million people annually and killing approximately 100. According to Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, a multistate outbreak of human "Campylobacter" infections have been reported since September 11, 2017. Total 55 cases have been reported from 12 states (Florida, Kansas, Maryland, Missouri, New Hampshire, New York, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Tennessee, Utah, Wisconsin and Wyoming). Epidemiological and laboratory evidence indicated that puppies sold through Petland stores are a likely
An image shows reported cases of "flesh eating bacteria" in 2019. [SEP] Campylobacter // from 2006 to 2008. This represents the highest reported number of infections since 2000. High prevalence of "Campylobacter" (40% or more) has been reported in raw chicken meat in retail stores in the USA. The reported prevalence in retail chicken meat is higher than the reported prevalence by the microbiology performance standard testing collected by the U. S. Department of Agriculture, and the last quarterly progress report on "Salmonella" and "Campylobacter" testing of meat and poultry for July–September 2014, published by the Food Safety and Inspection Service of the U. S. Department of Agriculture, shows a low prevalence of "Campylobacter"
An image shows reported cases of "flesh eating bacteria" in 2019. [SEP] 2018 Romaine lettuce E. coli O157:H7 outbreak // 2018 Romaine lettuce E. coli O157:H7 outbreak In 2018, a strain of "Escherichia coli" bacteria caused the reported illness of 210 people across 36 states in the US, carried on Romaine lettuce from Yuma, Arizona. This strain produces shiga toxin, which is thought to have been transferred to the species from a strain of "Shigella" by a bacteriophage, a kind of virus that (as the name implies) "eats" bacteria. On or after April 16, 2018, cases of food poisoning began to be reported in the New York State area. The CDC eventually concluded this was an example of O157:H7, its
An image shows reported cases of "flesh eating bacteria" in 2019. [SEP] Cyclosporiasis // was the culprit. During July 21–August 8, 2017, the Texas Department of State Health Services (DSHS) was notified of 20 cases of cyclosporiasis among persons who dined at a Mediterranean-style restaurant chain (chain A) in the Houston area. On July 31, 2018, the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) issued a public health alert for certain beef, pork and poultry salad and wrap products potentially contaminated with Cyclospora. The contamination came from the chopped romaine lettuce used in these products. Cyclosporiasis Cyclosporiasis is a disease caused by infection with "Cyclospora cayetanensis", a pathogenic protozoan transmitted by feces or feces-contaminated food
An image shows reported cases of "flesh eating bacteria" in 2019. [SEP] Campylobacteriosis // involved in 77.3% in all cases of laboratory confirmed foodborne illness. About 15 of every 100,000 people are diagnosed with campylobacteriosis every year, and with many cases going unreported, up to 0.5% of the general population may unknowingly harbor "Campylobacter" in their gut. A large animal reservoir is present as well, with up to 100% of poultry, including chickens, turkeys, and waterfowl, having asymptomatic infections in their intestinal tracts. Infected chicken feces may contain up to 10 bacteria per 25 grams, and due to the installations, the bacteria are rapidly spread to other chickens. This vastly exceeds the infectious dose
An image shows reported cases of "flesh eating bacteria" in 2019. [SEP] Clostridium perfringens // arising from the incident. In December 2014, 87-year-old Bessie Scott died 3 days after eating a church potluck supper in Nackawic, New Brunswick, Canada. Over 30 other people reported signs of gastrointestinal illness, diarrhea, and abdominal pain. The province's acting chief medical officer says, "Clostridium perfringens" is the bacteria [sic] that most likely caused the woman's death. In October 2016, 66-year-old Alex Zdravich died four days after eating an enchilada, burrito, and taco at Agave Azul in West Lafayette, Indiana. Three others who dined the same day reported signs of foodborne illness, which were consistent with the symptoms and rapid
An image shows reported cases of "flesh eating bacteria" in 2019. [SEP] Meat spoilage // the slaughterhouse personnel. Bacterial genera commonly infecting meat while it is being processed, cut, packaged, transported, sold and handled include Salmonella spp., Shigella spp., E. coli, B. proteus, S. epidermidis and Staph. aureus, Cl. welchii, B. cereus and faecal streptococci. These bacteria are all commonly carried by humans; infectious bacteria from the soil include Cl. botulinum. Among the molds commonly infecting meat are Penicillium, Mucor, Cladosporium, Alternaria, Sporotrichium and Thamnidium. As these microorganisms colonize a piece of meat, they begin to break it down, leaving behind toxins that can cause enteritis or food poisoning, potentially lethal in the rare case
An image shows reported cases of "flesh eating bacteria" in 2019. [SEP] Listeriosis // of the 15 people infected, 3 had died. Later victims included a fourth person on 7 March, and a Victorian man in his 80s on 16 March. A miscarriage was also linked to listeriosis. Seventeen cases had been confirmed as of 7 March. In July 2018, a number of countries, including Australia, issued recalls of frozen vegetables due to "Listeria". On 5 July 2018 the "Manchester Evening News" reported that at least four major supermarket retailers had issued major product recalls as a result of a large supplier confirming possible contamination of frozen vegetables sourced from Hungary. The supplier, Greenyard
An image shows reported cases of "flesh eating bacteria" in 2019. [SEP] Salmonellosis // report detected turkey production as the source of infection. In Germany, food poisoning infections must be reported. Between 1990 and 2005, the number of officially recorded cases decreased from about 200,000 to about 50,000. In March 2007, around 150 people were diagnosed with salmonellosis after eating tainted food at a governor's reception in Krasnoyarsk, Russia. Over 1,500 people attended the ball on March 1 and fell ill as a consequence of ingesting "Salmonella"-tainted sandwiches. About 150 people were sickened by "Salmonella"-tainted chocolate cake produced by a major bakery chain in Singapore in December 2007. Both salmonellosis and the microorganism genus
An image shows reported cases of "flesh eating bacteria" in 2019. [SEP] Clostridium perfringens // onset of "C. perfringens" infection. They later tested positive for the presence of the bacteria. In November 2016, food contaminated with "C. perfringens" caused three individuals to die, and another 22 to be sickened, after a Thanksgiving luncheon hosted by a church in Antioch, California. In January 2017, a mother and her son sued a restaurant in Rochester, New York, as they and 260 other people were sickened after eating foods contaminated with "C. perfringens". "Officials from the Monroe County Department of Public Health closed down the Golden Ponds after more than a fourth of its Thanksgiving Day guests became
Some grocery store receipts contain chemicals linked to infertility and hormone-related cancers. [SEP] Deborah Cadbury // interviews she conducted with scientists around the world and outlines the process of scientific investigation into how chemicals such as DDT, PCBs, alkyl phenols, bi-phenols, phthalates, and dioxins may be contributing to phenomenon such as increased breast cancer rates, decreased sperm counts, and abnormalities in male genital development whose full impact "has yet to be realized." However, scientists in the book caution that more evidence is needed to confirm the exact causes and effects of the phenomenon being observed. In their estimation, it is too early in the process to make definitive statements as to the dangers exposure to these
Some grocery store receipts contain chemicals linked to infertility and hormone-related cancers. [SEP] Risk factors for breast cancer // amines have been found to cause mammary cancer in rats. Studies have shown that women who eat higher amounts of overcooked meat, meaning more exposure to heterocyclic amines, have also been diagnosed with more post-menopausal breast cancer. Heterocyclic amines also have the ability to copy estrogen and in laboratory studies have been found to encourage the growth of cancerous tumors on human tissue. Benzene is a petrochemical solvent. Benzene exposure mostly originates from air pollution resulting from industrial burning, exhaust and gas fumes, as well as cigarette smoke. Petroleum, its distillates such as gasoline, auto and truck exhausts also contain
Some grocery store receipts contain chemicals linked to infertility and hormone-related cancers. [SEP] Pinkwashing (breast cancer) // and toluene. The "pinkwashing" issue is not limited to Komen and its sponsors. In 2007, the Estée Lauder Pink Ribbon Collection series used a donation to The Breast Cancer Research Foundation (BCRF) to promote products containing parabens, chemicals linked to breast cancer. In 2012, the Food and Drug Administration had connected 5-Hour Energy drinks, a caffeinated energy shot promoted using a Living Beyond Breast Cancer (LBBC) sponsorship as cause marketing, to thirteen deaths and serious injuries, including heart attacks. In 2008, Think Before You Pink launched an online campaign against Yoplait, the national sponsor of Susan G. Komen's annual walk.
Some grocery store receipts contain chemicals linked to infertility and hormone-related cancers. [SEP] Sandra Steingraber // ideals that Rachel Carson expressed in her seminal book, "Silent Spring". Carson discusses a woman with bladder cancer and investigates research how and why cancer is linked to the environment. Steingraber stresses issues such as how chemical pesticides find their way into human bodies. She states, "in 1996 a study investigated six-fold excess of bladder cancer among workers exposed years before to o-toluidine and aniline in the rubber chemicals department of a manufacturing plant in upstate New York. Levels of these contaminants are now well within their legal workplace limits and yet blood and urine samples collected from current employees
Some grocery store receipts contain chemicals linked to infertility and hormone-related cancers. [SEP] Susan G. Komen for the Cure // A longitudinal study found that women employed in the automotive plastics industry are almost five times as likely to develop breast cancer prior to menopause, compared to women in a control group. In April 2010, Komen paired with fast food restaurant chain KFC to offer "Buckets for the Cure," a promotion in which fried and grilled chicken was sold in pink branded buckets. The collaboration garnered criticism from media outlets, including "The Colbert Report" and "Bitch" magazine, and raised criticisms about the promotion of unhealthy eating habits, as KFC chicken is known to contain carcinogenic chemicals. KFC contributed over $4.2
Some grocery store receipts contain chemicals linked to infertility and hormone-related cancers. [SEP] Ovarian cancer // surgeries that affect risk for ovarian cancer. Cohort studies have found a correlation between dairy consumption and ovarian cancer, but case-control studies do not show this correlation. There is mixed evidence regarding the effect of red meat and processed meat in ovarian cancer. Tentative evidence suggests that talc, pesticides, and herbicides increase the risk of ovarian cancer. The American Cancer Society notes that as of now, no study has been able to accurately link any single chemical in the environment, or in the human diet, directly to mutations that cause ovarian cancer. Alcohol consumption does not appear to be related
Some grocery store receipts contain chemicals linked to infertility and hormone-related cancers. [SEP] Whole Foods Market // companies' failure to warn consumers the fish contained potentially dangerous levels of cancer-causing chemicals known as PCBs. In February 2006, shareholders of Whole Foods filed a resolution asking Whole Foods to report toxic chemicals found in its products. Substances such as Bisphenol A (BPA), found in products such as baby bottles and children's cups, are controversial. Whole Foods no longer sells baby bottles and children's cups made with BPA. In the wake of concern over the safety of seafood imports from China, on July 10, 2007, "The Washington Post" reported that Whole Foods imports a small amount of frozen shrimp
Some grocery store receipts contain chemicals linked to infertility and hormone-related cancers. [SEP] Toxic Substances Control Act of 1976 // and female fertility can be compromised from exposure to toxic chemicals. For example, farm workers including a large number of seasonal migrant workers are exposed to variety of occupational risks and hazards. Communities near agricultural farms may be at higher risk for exposure to pesticides. Farm workers are exposed to pesticide-related illness from the use of chemicals that can have delayed health effect such as cancer and reproductive dysfunction. Among the chemicals farmers get exposed, Dibromochloropropane (DBCP), a soil fumigant used to control nematodes can lead to "testicular toxicity and human reproductive dysfunction." Other health problems from their exposure to
Some grocery store receipts contain chemicals linked to infertility and hormone-related cancers. [SEP] Human reproductive ecology // hormones found in the environment and plastics such as Bisphenol A (BPA) have been thought to affect sexual development in humans at the prenatal or postnatal stage. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), BPA found in plastic bottles and containers leaches into foods and liquids when warmed up, as in the case of plastic baby bottles, and traces of the chemical were found in more than 90% of the U.S. population studied. BPA is of concern because it interferes with the actions of estrogen which is needed as a developmental and reproductive regulator. Most of the
Some grocery store receipts contain chemicals linked to infertility and hormone-related cancers. [SEP] Villejuif leaflet // East, and Africa. Journalists working for newspapers distributed the list of alleged carcinogens verbatim; even a 1984 book written by a medical doctor aiming at informing the general public about the dangers of cancer included the substances in the flyer in a list of carcinogens, without checking the flyer's accuracy. It was reproduced many times by many individuals as friends sought to inform other friends of the harmful chemicals in their food, and in the course of uncontrolled copying a version of the leaflet included the name of the Villejuif Hospital, making victims to the rumour believe that the list
FDA advisory panel backs Merck's blood clot-preventing drug. [SEP] David Graham (epidemiologist) // Lotronex, Baycol, Seldane, and Propulsid. On November 18, 2004, Dr. Graham testified before the U.S. Senate Committee on Finance about Merck's withdrawal of the popular anti-inflammatory drug Vioxx the previous month because of serious safety concerns. In his testimony, he asserted his personal belief that the policies within the U.S. Food and Drug Administration were insufficient to protect the public from drugs which carry unacceptable risks, saying "I would argue that the FDA, as currently configured, is incapable of protecting America against another Vioxx. We are virtually defenseless." After his testimony, Graham was publicly criticized by the FDA. He contacted
FDA advisory panel backs Merck's blood clot-preventing drug. [SEP] Rofecoxib // carried out in older "trusted" NSAIDs such as ibuprofen, diclofenac and others. The possible exceptions may be aspirin and naproxen due to their anti-platelet aggregation properties. Due to the findings of its own APPROVe study, Merck publicly announced its voluntary withdrawal of the drug from the market worldwide on September 30, 2004. In addition to its own studies, on September 23, 2004, Merck apparently received information about new research by the FDA that supported previous findings of increased risk of heart attack among rofecoxib users (Grassley, 2004). FDA analysts estimated that Vioxx caused between 88,000 and 139,000 heart attacks, 30
FDA advisory panel backs Merck's blood clot-preventing drug. [SEP] Eric Topol // Vioxx. In a 2004 editorial in "The New York Times", he wrote that "Merck finally had to acknowledge the truth [about the drug's cardiovascular risks], but only by accident." Topol also authored an editorial in the "New England Journal of Medicine", arguing that "neither Merck nor the FDA fulfilled its responsibilities to the public" and encouraging a "full Congressional review" of the situation. In 2004, Bethany McLean, writing in "Fortune", questioned Topol's own potential financial conflicts of interest. She reported that Topol served as a scientific advisor to a hedge fund which profited substantially by short selling Merck stock, which
FDA advisory panel backs Merck's blood clot-preventing drug. [SEP] Merck Group // chemicals to the electronics industry. In September 2014 Merck halted the clinical development of two drug candidates in development with Oxygen Biotherapeutics. One drug candidate suffered a lack of success in patient recruitment, with its MUC1 antigen-specific cancer immunotherapy drug, tecemotide (L-BLP25), missing its Phase I/II endpoint of increasing overall survival in patients with Stage III non-small cell lung cancer. Later in September it was announced that the company would acquire Sigma-Aldrich for $17 billion. After the acquisition was completed in 2015, Merck has around 50,000 employees. In November 2014, Merck and Pfizer agreed a deal for the latter to
FDA advisory panel backs Merck's blood clot-preventing drug. [SEP] Drotrecogin alfa // the drug study itself and the FDA approval," wrote NEJM editor-at-large Richard P. Wenzel, MD in 2002. The FDA approved the drug despite the advisory committee's split vote (10 to 10) due to concerns about the validity of the claimed efficacy and safety findings on the basis of a single trial. Eli Lilly spokeswoman Judy Kay Moore insisted that the company did not mastermind the ethics task force or steer the guideline-writing process. It was only a coincidence, Moore says, that the ethics task force and the Surviving Sepsis Campaign used the same P.R. firm, Belsito and Company. In the
FDA advisory panel backs Merck's blood clot-preventing drug. [SEP] Betrixaban // with Merck. In 2011 Merck discontinued joint development. The drug has undergone human clinical trials for prevention of embolism after knee surgery and for prevention of stroke following non-valvular atrial fibrillation with promising results. Later betrixaban was studied in a large phase III clinical trial ("APEX") for extended duration thromboprophylaxis in acute medically ill patients. Previously apixaban and rivaroxaban have failed to show positive risk/benefit ratio in this indication compared to enoxaparin. APEX trial compared betrixaban with enoxaparin and included 7513 patients. Lower rate of VTE events was found in betrixaban arm with no increase in major bleedings compared to
FDA advisory panel backs Merck's blood clot-preventing drug. [SEP] COX-2 inhibitor // and death from a vascular event such as MI or stroke. These results led Merck to voluntarily withdraw (Rofecoxib) from the market in September 2004 and to regulatory authorities imposing a boxed warning on the label of celecoxib. Traditional NSAIDs were also found to have cardiovascular risks, leading to similar boxed warnings. The cause of the cardiovascular problems became, and remains, a subject of intensive research. As of 2012 results have been converging on the hypothesis that the adverse cardiovascular effects are most likely due to inhibition of COX-2 in blood vessels, which leads to a decrease in the production
FDA advisory panel backs Merck's blood clot-preventing drug. [SEP] Bezlotoxumab // prevent recurrence of "C. difficile" associated diarrhea than bezlotoxumab alone. On June 9, 2016, the U.S. FDA's Antimicrobial Drugs Advisory Committee (formerly known as the Anti-Infective Drugs Advisory Committee) met to discuss bezlotoxumab. The committee voted to recommend approval of Merck's license application by a vote of 10 to 5, generally expressing a willingness to accept that the trials had proven that bezlotoxumab decreased recurrence of "C. difficile" overall. The committee tempered this acceptance with a robust discussion of whether or not the drug provide more marked benefit in some patient groups and expressed concern over a potential safety signal
FDA advisory panel backs Merck's blood clot-preventing drug. [SEP] Thrombosis prevention // risk of bleeding and so many surgeons start giving anti-coagulants the first 6 hours after surgery.Medications that inhibit blood clot formation include: The discontinuation of contraceptives also prevents blood clots. The therapeutic effects of warfarin may be decreased by valerian. Anticoagulants can be affected by chamomile. Dong quai, garlic, ginger, Ginkgo biloba, bilberry and feverfew can increase bleeding time. These same herbal supplements taken with warfarin increased prothrombin time. By containing significant content of vitamin K, some foods act as antagonists to antiplatelet and anticoagulant medications; these include green leafy vegetables, like spinach, legumes, and broccoli. Preventing blood clots with
FDA advisory panel backs Merck's blood clot-preventing drug. [SEP] Rofecoxib // to operate honestly throughout the process. Any mistakes that were made regarding the mishandling of clinical trial results and withholding of information was the result of oversight, not malicious behavior. The Martin Report did conclude that the Merck's marketing team exaggerated the safety of Vioxx and replaced truthful information with sales tactics. The report was published in February 2006, and Merck was satisfied with the findings of the report and promised to consider the recommendations contained in the Martin Report. By March 2006, there were over 10,000 cases and 190 class actions filed against Merck over adverse cardiovascular events associated
Over a dozen arrests in SC following 4th Poor People’s Rally. [SEP] Poor People's Campaign // Sunday, June 23, 1968, some members of the House of Representatives called for immediate removal. On June 24, over one thousand police officers arrived to clear the camp and its 500 remaining residents. Some had been led by Abernathy to another site for a pre-arranged arrest. In the camp, police still found some people singing and clapping. Police systematically searched the camp's shelters and arrested people inside and nearby the city. Police ultimately arrested 288 demonstrators including Abernathy. On the afternoon of June 24, police reported being hit with rocks near 14th Street & U Street, an intersection central to
Over a dozen arrests in SC following 4th Poor People’s Rally. [SEP] Poor People's Campaign: A National Call for a Moral Revival // raise the national minimum wage to a living wage; Our Children, Our Future, a West Virginian group that organizes parents of children to fight against poverty; and Voices of Community Activist and Leaders - New York, a group from Harlem that builds power for New Yorkers who are impacted by HIV/AIDS, mass incarceration, drug wars, and homelessness. On May 21, 2018, 21 protesters were arrested in Nashville, Tennessee. This protest marked the 50 year anniversary of the Poor People's Campaign's building of a shantytown called Resurrection City. Rev. Barber said of the event, “This is not a commemoration of what
Over a dozen arrests in SC following 4th Poor People’s Rally. [SEP] Poor People's Campaign: A National Call for a Moral Revival // happened 50 years ago. This is a reenactment and reinauguration.” On June 4, 2018, 16 protesters were arrested in Topeka, Kansas. After a Supreme Court decision determining that purging inactive Ohio voters from the registration lists is constitutional in "Husted v. Randolph Institute", Rev. Barber and Rev. Theoharis were arrested and detained for 26 hours at the Supreme Court. A week prior, Dr. Theoharis was arrested in Lansing, Michigan. On June 21, the campaign hung two banners on both sides of a raised stage at the National Mall that read, "Fight Poverty Not The Poor". Within the 40 days, more
Over a dozen arrests in SC following 4th Poor People’s Rally. [SEP] Poor People's Campaign // 50,000 and 100,000 people (including many whites). The crowd was addressed not only by SCLC leaders—including Abernathy and Coretta Scott King (who spoke against the Vietnam War)—but also by Tijerina, Native American activist Martha Grass, and politicians such as Eugene McCarthy (whom they applauded) and Hubert Humphrey (whom they booed). Labor unions, including the United Auto Workers, had a strong presence at the event. Puerto Rican and Chicano marchers held a separate rally on the weekend before when people were less likely to be working. On Thursday, June 20, police fired several canisters of tear gas into the city—reportedly after
Over a dozen arrests in SC following 4th Poor People’s Rally. [SEP] Charleston Five // ILA 1422A mechanics union and Locals 1771. By nightfall there were almost 130 longshoremen picketing, though some media suggested the number could have been up to 300. Then as the leadership went ahead to figure out what the intention was, the protesters threw rocks, bottles, and railroad ties at the police. The police started baton charge, gas shell firing and even charged an armored vehicle at the longshoremen. The Five's arrests set off a firestorm of political implications and finger pointing and allegedly some South Carolina officials were using the arrests as political fulcrums to further their careers. In October
Over a dozen arrests in SC following 4th Poor People’s Rally. [SEP] Poor People's Campaign: A National Call for a Moral Revival // than 2,000 people were arrested nationwide. Protesters stopped traffic and petitioned state legislatives. and performed more acts of direct action. Rev. Barber has stated, “We have these mythologies about the civil rights movement, about what it took to bring about change in America, but none of that happened overnight. You need to have a long-term vision. This right here, this is only our foundation.” The new movement aims to address the issues that Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. spoke against in his original campaign. Poor People's Campaign: A National Call for a Moral Revival Poor People's Campaign: A National Call
Over a dozen arrests in SC following 4th Poor People’s Rally. [SEP] Poor People's Campaign // Poor People's Campaign The Poor People's Campaign, or Poor People's March on Washington, was a 1968 effort to gain economic justice for poor people in the United States. It was organized by Martin Luther King, Jr. and the Southern Christian Leadership Conference (SCLC), and carried out under the leadership of Ralph Abernathy in the wake of King's assassination. The campaign demanded economic and human rights for poor Americans of diverse backgrounds. After presenting an organized set of demands to Congress and executive agencies, participants set up a 3,000-person protest camp on the Washington Mall, where they stayed for six weeks
Over a dozen arrests in SC following 4th Poor People’s Rally. [SEP] Poor People's Campaign: A National Call for a Moral Revival // the US", starting in May. The main event was hosted at the National Mall in Washington, DC. The focus of the events were on the "triple evils": racism, poverty, and militarism. Thousands of people marched in Washington DC, coming from at least 32 states. More than 20 state's representatives were called on stage, along with representatives for Native Americans living on reservations. People from as far as Alaska joined the crowd. People within the movement also participant in other organizations who feel that their goals are being pushed forward by the campaign, such as "Fight for $15", who aims to
Over a dozen arrests in SC following 4th Poor People’s Rally. [SEP] Unite the Right rally // A third man, Daniel P. Borden, ultimately pleaded guilty. The fourth person, Tyler Watkins Davis, is awaiting trial. Beginning in the morning, ahead of the rally's official noon start time, "protesters and counterprotesters faced off, kicking, punching, hurling water bottles at and deploying chemical sprays against one another". An estimated 500 protesters and more than a thousand counterprotesters were on the site. The Associated Press reported that "people threw punches, screamed, set off smoke bombs, hurled water bottles and unleashed chemical sprays"; some engaged in combat while "others darted around, trying to avoid the chaos". At least 14 people were
Over a dozen arrests in SC following 4th Poor People’s Rally. [SEP] Poor People's Campaign // Yippees. In Savannah, Georgia, there is a group of Socialists that carry on the Poor People's Campaign legacy, calling themselves "PPC/CAT", "CAT" meaning "Community Action Team". They provide clothes and household items to anyone who needs them at Direct Action events throughout the city. Poor People's Campaign The Poor People's Campaign, or Poor People's March on Washington, was a 1968 effort to gain economic justice for poor people in the United States. It was organized by Martin Luther King, Jr. and the Southern Christian Leadership Conference (SCLC), and carried out under the leadership of Ralph Abernathy in the wake of
The Black Panther Party created the Women, Infants, and Children (WIC) program that provides supplemental food assistance to single mothers and their children. [SEP] Free Breakfast for Children // was one among more than 60 community social programs created by the Black Panther Party. They were renamed Survival Programs in 1971. These were operated by Party members under the slogan "survival pending revolution." Another Survival Program started by the Black Panther Party was referred to as "medical self-defense" with the creation of healthcare clinics and their own ambulance services. Fred Hampton, leader of the Chicago local, helped organize a number of community programs. These included five different breakfast programs on the West Side, a free medical center, a door to door program of health services (which offered testing for
The Black Panther Party created the Women, Infants, and Children (WIC) program that provides supplemental food assistance to single mothers and their children. [SEP] Black Panther Party // the women by establishing on-site child development centers in multiple chapters across the United States. "Childcare became largely a group activity", the children would be raised collectively during the week. This was following the Panther's commitment to collectivism and an extension of the African-American extended family tradition. Childcare allowed women Panthers to still be able to embrace motherhood, while at the same time allowing them to fully participate in the Party. Creating Childcare to the Party allowed women Panthers to not to have to make the choice between motherhood and activism. The Black Panther Party experienced significant problems in several
The Black Panther Party created the Women, Infants, and Children (WIC) program that provides supplemental food assistance to single mothers and their children. [SEP] Black Panther Party // programs" a priority within its branches. The most famous of their programs was the Free Breakfast for Children Program, initially run out of an Oakland church. The Free Breakfast For Children program was especially significant because it served as a space for educating youth about the current condition of the Black community, and the actions that the Party was taking to address that condition. "While the children ate their meal[s], members [of the Party] taught them liberation lessons consisting of Party messages and Black history." Through this program, the Party was able to influence young minds, and strengthen their ties
The Black Panther Party created the Women, Infants, and Children (WIC) program that provides supplemental food assistance to single mothers and their children. [SEP] Black Panther Party // to communities as well as gain widespread support for their ideologies. The breakfast program became so popular that the Panthers Party claimed to have fed twenty thousand children in the 1968-69 school year. Other survival programs were free services such as clothing distribution, classes on politics and economics, free medical clinics, lessons on self-defense and first aid, transportation to upstate prisons for family members of inmates, an emergency-response ambulance program, drug and alcohol rehabilitation, and testing for sickle-cell disease. The free medical clinics were very significant because it model an idea of how the world might work with free medical
The Black Panther Party created the Women, Infants, and Children (WIC) program that provides supplemental food assistance to single mothers and their children. [SEP] Free Breakfast for Children // sickle cell anemia), and blood drives for the Cook County Hospital. The Chicago party also reached out to local gangs to clean up their acts, get them away from crime and bring them into the class war. The Party's efforts met with wide success, and Hampton's audiences and organized contingent grew by the day. Free Breakfast for Children The Free Breakfast for School Children Program was a community service program run by the Black Panther Party as an early manifestation of the social mission envisioned by founders Huey P. Newton and Bobby Seale along with their founding of the Oakland
The Black Panther Party created the Women, Infants, and Children (WIC) program that provides supplemental food assistance to single mothers and their children. [SEP] WIC // benefits programs, such as the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, Medicaid, or Temporary Assistance for Needy Families, may automatically meet the income eligibility requirements. Currently, WIC serves 53 percent of all infants born in the United States. An amendment to section 17 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 on September 26, 1972. The legislation (P.L. 92-433, sponsored by Senator Hubert Humphrey (D) of Minnesota) established the Special Supplemental Food Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC) as a two-year pilot program. Eligibility was limited to children up to age 4 and excluded non-breastfeeding postpartum women. By the end of 1974,
The Black Panther Party created the Women, Infants, and Children (WIC) program that provides supplemental food assistance to single mothers and their children. [SEP] Black Panther Party // programs became a core activity of party members. The Black Panther Party instituted a variety of community social programs, most extensively the Free Breakfast for Children Programs, and community health clinics to address issues like food injustice. The party enrolled the most members and made the greatest impact in the Oakland-San Francisco Bay Area, New York, Chicago, Los Angeles, Seattle, and Philadelphia. Federal Bureau of Investigation Director J. Edgar Hoover called the party "the greatest threat to the internal security of the country", and he supervised an extensive counterintelligence program (COINTELPRO) of surveillance, infiltration, perjury, police harassment, and many other
The Black Panther Party created the Women, Infants, and Children (WIC) program that provides supplemental food assistance to single mothers and their children. [SEP] Black Panther Party // a provocative letter to the US Organization in an attempt to increase existing antagonism between the two groups. COINTELPRO also aimed to dismantle the Black Panther Party by targeting the social/community programs they endorsed, one of the most influential being the Free Breakfast for Children Program. The success of the Free Breakfast for Children Program served to "shed light on the government's failure to address child poverty and hunger—pointing to the limits of the nation's War on Poverty". The ability of the Party to organize and provide for children more effectively than the U.S. government led the FBI to criticize
The Black Panther Party created the Women, Infants, and Children (WIC) program that provides supplemental food assistance to single mothers and their children. [SEP] Shirley Chisholm // and hungry. Chisholm subsequently met Robert Dole, and worked to expand the food stamp program. She later played a critical role in the creation of the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants and Children (WIC) program. Chisholm would credit Schneerson for the fact that so many "poor babies [now] have milk and poor children have food". Chisholm was then also placed on the Veterans' Affairs Committee. Soon after, she voted for Hale Boggs as House Majority Leader over John Conyers. As a reward for her support, Boggs assigned her to the much-prized Education and Labor Committee, which was her
The Black Panther Party created the Women, Infants, and Children (WIC) program that provides supplemental food assistance to single mothers and their children. [SEP] WIC // WIC The Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC) is a federal assistance program of the Food and Nutrition Service (FNS) of the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) for healthcare and nutrition of low-income pregnant women, breastfeeding women, and children under the age of five. (See child nutrition programs.) Their mission is to be a partner with other services that are key to childhood and family well-being The basic eligibility requirement is a family income below 185% of the federal poverty level. Most states allow automatic income eligibility, where a person or family participating in certain
A photograph shows a dead man whose unwitting co-workers arranged a "funny selfie," believing he was just sleeping. [SEP] Tomie: Another Face // that passion, and proceeds to take several photos of her with her permission. The man with the eye patch is still following Tomie during the photoshoots. While Tomie is sleeping in the photographer's bed, he develops the photographs only to find that each one has two faces: Tomie's face and a ghoul's face nearby. Convinced it is not his lens, he tells Tomie this and she tells him to kill her to prove she is not a ghost. If she was a ghost, she could not die. Naturally, she does die, but when the photographer is transporting her body in
A photograph shows a dead man whose unwitting co-workers arranged a "funny selfie," believing he was just sleeping. [SEP] Selfie // that "those who frequently post photographs on Facebook risk damaging real-life relationships." The photo messaging application Snapchat is also largely used to send selfies. Some users of Snapchat choose to send intentionally-unattractive selfies to their friends for comedic purposes. Posting intentionally unattractive selfies has also become common in the early 2010s—in part for their humor value, but in some cases also to explore issues of body image or as a reaction against the perceived narcissism or over-sexualization of typical selfies. The practice of taking selfies has been criticised not only for being narcissistic, preventing assessment and appreciation of what is
A photograph shows a dead man whose unwitting co-workers arranged a "funny selfie," believing he was just sleeping. [SEP] Selfie // launch of a short film with the title "Selfie". Milan is the 8th most active selfie-taking city in the world with 108 selfie-takers per 100,000 people. According to Professor Amanda du Preez, there are least three types of selfie pictures documenting death, selfies unknowingly taken before death, where the taker’s death is almost witnessed, or where the taker stands by while someone else dies. Because they are typically taken much closer to the subject's face than a conventional photograph, phone selfies tend to distort the subject's face. When conventional photographers take head shots, they typically use a narrower lens (or
A photograph shows a dead man whose unwitting co-workers arranged a "funny selfie," believing he was just sleeping. [SEP] Let Sleeping Corpses Lie (film) // encountered earlier. The man kills Martin, and Katie flees just as George and Edna arrive. When the three report the death, the aggressive police sergeant thinks that Katie did it. George, forced to stay in South Gate, secretly takes the roll of film from Martin's camera to a local chemist to have it developed. Katie has a breakdown and is hospitalised. At the hospital, it turns out that babies are affected too, biting people with homicidal intensity. Back at the chemist's, they collect the photos, but the dead man does not appear in any of the pictures; the man, it
A photograph shows a dead man whose unwitting co-workers arranged a "funny selfie," believing he was just sleeping. [SEP] 4bia // "cramped" for 100 days and is oddly only able to be contacted at night. After sending the mysterious stranger her photo, Pin asks for one in return and is sent the same photo. When she questions him, he says he is in the picture next to her. A ghostly face is slightly visible next to Pin's smiling face. As she researches recent deaths, Pin discovers that the son of Princess Sophia of Virnistan died and was buried with a cellphone so he can communicate with Princess Sophia—his mother, or to connect to someone else whenever he feels lonely. Pin then
A photograph shows a dead man whose unwitting co-workers arranged a "funny selfie," believing he was just sleeping. [SEP] Selfie // self-esteem is generally unrelated to selfie-posting behaviors. Selfitis is a condition described as the obsessive taking of selfies, although it is currently not listed as a mental disorder in the DSM-5. Obsessive taking of selfies and posting to social media has been found to be linked to many symptoms common to mental disorders. These include narcissism, low self-esteem, loneliness, self-centeredness, and attention-seeking behaviors. The first known selfie-related death occurred 15 March 2014, when a man electrocuted himself on top of a train. 2014, 'The Year of the Selfie', was also the year Makati and Pasig, 'Selfie Capital of the World',
A photograph shows a dead man whose unwitting co-workers arranged a "funny selfie," believing he was just sleeping. [SEP] Faryion Wardrip // her with a pillow because she "reminded him of his ex-wife". Prior to the discovery of her body, neighbors told police that they had seen a white man, 6 feet 2 inches tall, with dark brown hair and wearing a baseball cap leave the complex. Danny Laughlin (who had been suspected in the death of Toni Gibbs) was ruled out as a suspect because he did not fit this description. A few days later, on May 9, Wardrip called the police from across the state in Galveston, threatening to commit suicide. Once the police arrived he confessed to the murder.
A photograph shows a dead man whose unwitting co-workers arranged a "funny selfie," believing he was just sleeping. [SEP] Greatful Dead (film) // and lives an isolated existence. She starts to develop the habit of observing people, and in voyeuristic fashion, she starts to observe other people in a similarly isolated (and sometimes crazed) state. She calls these people "Solitarians". In particular, she focuses on elderly and vulnerable people and in particular, men. From her apartment in the city, with powerful binoculars, she observes these men, and sometimes watches them descend into madness and death, even taking selfies with their dead bodies. She delights in their misery, and soon her peeping Tom like behavior. However, one of her observed targets, an old man
A photograph shows a dead man whose unwitting co-workers arranged a "funny selfie," believing he was just sleeping. [SEP] Atalay Filiz // for a health check, Yeşim Göker, a hospital security guard, walked by his room, laughed and took a selfie with him. He later admitted that the selfie was his. Turkish actor Özcan Deniz made a selfie with an assistant who looked like Atalay Filiz while filming a movie, and shared the photo on his social media account. He later removed the photo after the negative reactions. Atalay Filiz Atalay Filiz (born June 6, 1986 in Bandırma, Balıkesir) is a suspected Turkish serial killer. He is held responsible for at least three murders, possibly for one in 2012, two in September
A photograph shows a dead man whose unwitting co-workers arranged a "funny selfie," believing he was just sleeping. [SEP] Post-mortem photography // the deceased – argued that key poses reflected cultural attitudes toward death. Ruby argued for the dominance of the ‘Last Sleep’ pose in the first forty years of post-mortem portraiture. In the ‘Last Sleep’ the deceased’s eyes are closed and they lay as though in repose, which Ruby argued reflected the American desire to associate death with sleep. Another popular arrangement was to have the deceased presented seated in a chair or arranged in a portrait to mimic life because these photographs would serve as their last social presence. In the Victorian era it was not uncommon to photograph deceased
Swiss police arrest "healer" accused of infecting 16 with HIV. [SEP] Healer of Berne // Healer of Berne The case of the Healer of Berne (German "Heiler von Bern") involves an Italian-Swiss music teacher and owner of a acupuncture practice which operated without a license. He is accused of knowingly infecting at least 16 people with the HIV virus, and 14 of them were also infected with Hepatitis C. The acts were carried from 2001 to 2005 in the Swiss capital, Bern. A manager who in 2004 was jabbed in his back during the acupuncture treatment and subsequently was tested positive for the HIV virus set the medical investigation into motion. His clues were only
Swiss police arrest "healer" accused of infecting 16 with HIV. [SEP] Healer of Berne // acquitted for serious bodily injury, and instead be tried for minor bodily injury as well as proliferation of human diseases. Reuters.com: https://www.reuters.com/article/us-swiss-healer-idUSBRE92L0NG20130322 Healer of Berne The case of the Healer of Berne (German "Heiler von Bern") involves an Italian-Swiss music teacher and owner of a acupuncture practice which operated without a license. He is accused of knowingly infecting at least 16 people with the HIV virus, and 14 of them were also infected with Hepatitis C. The acts were carried from 2001 to 2005 in the Swiss capital, Bern. A manager who in 2004 was jabbed in his back during
Swiss police arrest "healer" accused of infecting 16 with HIV. [SEP] Healer of Berne // followed up in a criminal investigation after several other patients accumulated at Bern's main hospital, the Inselspital, who also were infected with the same strain of the virus. The blood used for infecting the victim was, over the course of several years, drawn from a man who was promised a potential cure for his HIV infection. According to the criminal charges, two former girlfriends of the acupuncture therapist were also infected by him. The trial at the regional court Bern-Mittelland began on March 6, 2013. The accused denied any involvement in the infections. When the trial opened, he hid for
Swiss police arrest "healer" accused of infecting 16 with HIV. [SEP] Criminal transmission of HIV // called 'the Bulgarian nurses affair', concerns the trials, appeals and eventual release of six foreign medical workers charged with conspiring to deliberately infect over 400 children with HIV in 1998, causing an epidemic at El-Fatih Children's Hospital in Benghazi, Libya. The defendants, arrested in 1999, were one Palestinian medical intern and five Bulgarian nurses (often termed "medics"). All of the medics were heavily tortured for months to extract confessions. The torture process is described in details in the book Notes from Hell, co-written by Nikolay Yordanov and one of the nurses, Valya Chervianashka. As a result, three of the medics
Swiss police arrest "healer" accused of infecting 16 with HIV. [SEP] Bernard Rappaz // francs (= approx. 3.5 million euro). He also made claims about "healing powers of marijuana". Rappaz was sentenced to six years in jail. The state's attorney had asked for ten years. On March 20, 2010, he was imprisoned in Sion. He joined in a hunger strike to protest against what he considered unlawful criminal proceedings against him. He was transferred to the prison wing of "Inselspital" (University Hospital of Bern). The Conseil d'État Esther Waeber-Kalbermatten ordered a force feeding for the first grant in July 2010. On July 21, the Valais authorities gave him house arrest at his residence in
Swiss police arrest "healer" accused of infecting 16 with HIV. [SEP] Criminal transmission of HIV // remand prison cell on 30 November 2009 after having made two unsuccessful applications to be released on bail in prior weeks. Three HIV-positive men, Peter Mulder, Hans Jurgens and Wim Dekker, were jailed in 2008 on charges of attempting to inflict grievous bodily harm after drugging and raping 14 men, some of whom they injected with their own HIV-infected blood. Twelve of the victims were HIV-positive or suffering from AIDS at the time of the trial. In Poland under Art. 161 of the Criminal Code, persons who knowingly risk infecting others with HIV are liable to be jailed up to
Swiss police arrest "healer" accused of infecting 16 with HIV. [SEP] Criminal transmission of HIV // he was found guilty of five counts of aggravated assault and 14 counts of attempted aggravated assault. He was sentenced to ten years in prison. He was also ordered to pay 45,000–55,000 euros compensation to the five women that contracted the virus. In the Federal Republic of Germany on 16 August 2010, Nadja Benaissa of the German pop music group No Angels admitted to sex with several men while knowing her HIV-positive status, and infecting one of those several, who subsequently brought the case against her. She faced prison, but was instead given probation (2 years) and community service. Women
Swiss police arrest "healer" accused of infecting 16 with HIV. [SEP] HIV trial in Libya // kinds of machines, one with a crank and one with buttons."" Doctor Zdravko Georgiev the husband of Kristiana Vulcheva, came to Libya after his wife was arrested. He was charged along with the others but ultimately was found not guilty of all charges after having been once convicted of currency violations. The World Health Organization (WHO) report (1999) describes the visit performed by the WHO team (Dr. P.N. Shrestha, Dr. A. Eleftherious and Dr. V. Giacomet) to Tripoli, Sirte and Benghazi the 28th of December 1998 through 11 January 1999; while the Bulgarians were still on staff. There have been
Swiss police arrest "healer" accused of infecting 16 with HIV. [SEP] HIV trial in Libya // on AIDS. On 6 May 2004 the Criminal Court in Benghazi sentenced to death by firing squad; Ashraf al-Hadzhudzh, Kristiyana Valtcheva, Nasya Nenova, Valentina Siropulo, Valya Chervenyashka, and Snezhana Dimitrova, finding them guilty for the intentional infection of 426 Libyan children with AIDS. Dr Zdravko Georgiev was found guilty of illegal transactions in foreign currency and sentenced to four years in prison and a fine of 600 dinars. He was ordered released for time served. In public after the conviction Colizzi called the scientific evidence used against them "so irrational it's unbelievable" and said the verdict read "like a bad
Swiss police arrest "healer" accused of infecting 16 with HIV. [SEP] HIV trial in Libya // his wife (Valtcheva) and was subsequently detained and tried on the charge of illegally transacting in foreign currency. Several Libyans were also arrested and tried on non-capital offences—Abdul Azis Husein Mohammed Shembesh, Abdul Menam Ahmed Mohammed al-Sherif, Idris Maatuk Mohammed al-Amari, Salim Ibrahim Suleyman Abe Garara, Mansur al-Mansur Saleh al-Mauhub, Nureddin Abdulhamid Halil Dagman and Saad Musa Suleyman al-Amruni. Ashraf al-Hadzhudzh was defendant number one in the case. In the prosecution's view he was a man in a deadly criminal ring of female nurses dedicated to a plot involving agents of foreign governments; large sums of money; illegal, adulterous sex;
NASA and NOAA faked climate data in the GISTEMP global temperature record to exaggerate global warming. [SEP] Joseph D'Aleo // becomes silly to rely on such comparisons," said D'Aleo, who called the claimed manipulation a "scientific travesty" committed by activist scientists to promote a global-warming agenda. Also in 2010, D'Aleo and Anthony Watts published a book-length report entitled "Surface Temperature Records: Policy Driven Deception?" In the report, which they described as "a work in progress," they analyzed worldwide temperature records and concluded with the claim that the systematic manipulation and exaggeration of instrumental temperature data by leading meteorological institutions makes it impossible to say whether or not there was a significant amount of global warming in the 20th century. In
NASA and NOAA faked climate data in the GISTEMP global temperature record to exaggerate global warming. [SEP] National Review // upper bounds of the chart at -10 and 110 degree Fahrenheit and zoomed out so as to obscure warming trends. In 2017, "National Review" published an article alleging that a top NOAA scientist claimed that National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) engaged in data manipulation and rushed a study based on faulty data in order to influence the Paris climate negotiations. The article largely repeated allegations made in "The Daily Mail" without independent verification. The scientist in question later rebuked the claims made by the "National Review", noting that he did not accuse NOAA of data manipulation but instead raised
NASA and NOAA faked climate data in the GISTEMP global temperature record to exaggerate global warming. [SEP] Michael E. Mann // the Southeastern Legal Foundation, Peabody Energy, the Competitive Enterprise Institute, and the Ohio Coal Association: the EPA found their claims were not supported by the evidence. At the request of Senator Jim Inhofe, who has called the science of man-made climate change a hoax, the Inspector General of the United States Department of Commerce investigated the emails in relation to NOAA, and concluded that there was no evidence of inappropriate manipulation of data. The Office of the Inspector General (OIG) of the National Science Foundation also carried out a detailed investigation, which it closed on August 15, 2011. It agreed
NASA and NOAA faked climate data in the GISTEMP global temperature record to exaggerate global warming. [SEP] Joseph D'Aleo // data... to produce an exaggerated warming that would point to man’s influence.” D'Aleo asserted in a January 2010 report with E. Michael Smith that, in addition to the "deceptions" of the CRU, researchers at the National Climate Data Center (NCDC) in Asheville, North Carolina, and the NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies (GISS) at Columbia University in New York City had also manipulated climate data, in order to claim that 2005 was the warmest year on record. "When the differences between the warmest year in history and the tenth warmest year is less than three quarters of a degree, it
NASA and NOAA faked climate data in the GISTEMP global temperature record to exaggerate global warming. [SEP] Climatic Research Unit documents // beyond that which it could substantiate", but also blamed the university for mishandling Freedom of Information requests and called for a full investigation to resolve the questions raised. The Associated Press conducted a review of the e-mails and concluded that they showed scientists fending off sceptics, but did not support claims that global warming science had been faked. They stated that "One of the most disturbing elements suggests an effort to avoid sharing scientific data with critics skeptical of global warming", and mentioned ethical problems with this action due to the fact that "free access to data is important so
NASA and NOAA faked climate data in the GISTEMP global temperature record to exaggerate global warming. [SEP] Climatic Research Unit documents // State University (PSU), one of the originators of the graph of temperature trends dubbed the "hockey stick graph". Climate change sceptics gained wide publicity for allegations that the hacked e-mails showed climate scientists colluded in manipulating data, withheld scientific information, and tried to prevent dissenting scientific papers from being published in peer reviewed journals. Academics and climate change researchers said that nothing in the emails proved wrongdoing, and dismissed the allegations. Independent reports said that the e-mails did not affect evidence that man made global warming is a real threat, and e-mails were being misrepresented to support unfounded claims of
NASA and NOAA faked climate data in the GISTEMP global temperature record to exaggerate global warming. [SEP] Tom Fitton // has claimed that climate science is "fraud science", has filed lawsuits seeking to force the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) to release the correspondence of climate scientists who published a 2015 study in the journal "Science". The study had debunked one of the common claims made by those who reject the IPCC consensus, namely that there existed global warming "hiatus" between 1998–2012. The Climate Science Legal Defense Fund (CSLDF), American Meteorological Society and Union of Concerned Scientists condemned Judicial Watch, saying that the disclosure of private communications between scientists "would harm (or halt altogether) government scientists' ability to collaborate
NASA and NOAA faked climate data in the GISTEMP global temperature record to exaggerate global warming. [SEP] Ivar Giaever // here are incontrovertible truth in a physical society. So the only answer to that is to resign and I resign in 11." He Claims referring to data on global average temperature (GISTEMP) published amongst others by NASA that show global average surface temperature has risen less than 1 K in 140 years, and not risen at all for the years from 2000 - 2014. A main point of Giaever's speech was discussing reliability of the statistical calculation of this temperature with respect to the spatial distribution of measurement locations over the globe, especially what he viewed as poor coverage in
NASA and NOAA faked climate data in the GISTEMP global temperature record to exaggerate global warming. [SEP] Malcolm Roberts (politician) // was "mistaken" to assert NASA had removed data to hide Arctic warming in the 1940s. Schmidt stated that the data was freely available online and that Roberts should check it himself, adding that he was surprised that Roberts was in fact a senator, and that his allegation of inappropriate temperature data adjustment is "the definition of denial". Roberts' specific objection related to charts from Icelandic stations at Vestmannaeyjar and Teigarhorn, where temperatures from the 1930s and 1940s were adjusted down, removing the apparent warming recorded at that time. However a senior Icelandic meteorologist with a specialty in historical climatology emailed
NASA and NOAA faked climate data in the GISTEMP global temperature record to exaggerate global warming. [SEP] James Hansen // in origin. In 2007, Stephen McIntyre notified GISS that many of the U.S. temperature records from the Historical Climatology Network (USHCN) displayed a discontinuity around the year 2000. NASA corrected the computer code used to process the data and credited McIntyre with pointing out the flaw. Hansen indicated that he felt that several news organizations had overreacted to this mistake. In 2010, Hansen published a paper entitled "Global Surface Temperature Change" describing current global temperature analysis. Hansen has also contributed toward the understanding of black carbon on regional climate. In recent decades, northern China has experienced increased drought, and southern
A photo shows Democratic U.S. Rep. Maxine Waters and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi posing and smiling in front of a Trump 2020 sign. [SEP] Red Hen restaurant controversy // calling for her supporters to confront Trump Cabinet officials in public spaces like restaurants, President Trump responded on Twitter saying "Congresswoman Maxine Waters, an extraordinarily low IQ person, has become, together with Nancy Pelosi, the Face of the Democrat Party. She has just called for harm to supporters, of which there are many, of the Make America Great Again movement. Be careful what you wish for Max!". Following the incident, Congresswoman Maxine Waters encouraged her supporters to act similarly saying, "Let's make sure we show up wherever we have to show up. And if you see anybody from that Cabinet
A photo shows Democratic U.S. Rep. Maxine Waters and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi posing and smiling in front of a Trump 2020 sign. [SEP] Maxine Waters // Trump to resign, "So that I won't have to keep up this fight of your having to be impeached because I don't think you deserve to be there. Just get out." On June 23, 2018, following an incident in which White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders was asked to leave a restaurant, Waters urged attendees at a rally in Los Angeles to confront and harass Trump administration officials who show up in public places: "...tell them they're not welcome anymore, anywhere." In response, House Democratic leader Nancy Pelosi posted comments on Twitter reported to be a condemnation of Waters'
A photo shows Democratic U.S. Rep. Maxine Waters and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi posing and smiling in front of a Trump 2020 sign. [SEP] Maxine Waters // between Waters and Mnuchin became viral on social media, and the phrase became attached to her criticisms of Trump. In early 2018, Waters was among the members of Congress the Republican Jewish Coalition called on to resign due to her connections with Nation of Islam leader Louis Farrakhan. Packages that contained pipe bombs were sent to two of Waters's offices on October 24, 2018. The packages were intercepted and are being investigated by the FBI. No one was injured. Similar packages were sent to several other Democratic leaders and to CNN. Previously, she had served on the Committee on the
A photo shows Democratic U.S. Rep. Maxine Waters and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi posing and smiling in front of a Trump 2020 sign. [SEP] Maxine Waters // to the violence that erupted at a white nationalist protest rally in Charlottesville, Virginia on August 12, 2017. Following President Trump's 2018 State of the Union address Waters released a video response wherein she addressed what most of the members of the Congressional Black Caucus see as the racist viewpoint and actions of Trump saying, "He claims that he's bringing people together but make no mistake, he is a dangerous, unprincipled, divisive, and shameful racist." Trump later retaliated against her impeachment views, calling her a "low IQ individual". On April 24, 2018, while attending the Time 100 Gala, Waters urged
A photo shows Democratic U.S. Rep. Maxine Waters and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi posing and smiling in front of a Trump 2020 sign. [SEP] Maxine Waters // well as the cities of Torrance, Gardena, Hawthorne, Inglewood and Lawndale. On July 29, 1994, Waters came to public attention when she repeatedly interrupted a speech by Peter King (R-NY). The presiding officer, Carrie Meek (D-FL), classed her behaviour as "unruly and turbulent", and threatened to have the Sergeant at Arms present her with the Mace of the House of Representatives (the equivalent of a formal warning to desist). As of 2017, this is the most recent instance of the mace being employed in a disciplinary sense. Waters was eventually suspended from the house for the rest of the day.
A photo shows Democratic U.S. Rep. Maxine Waters and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi posing and smiling in front of a Trump 2020 sign. [SEP] Kevin Cramer // facing the reality that we have not been kept very safe by current immigration and refugee policies." He has been described as one of Trump's allies in Congress and has pledged to be with Trump "100 percent of the time". In February 2017, during President Trump's first address to a joint session of Congress, House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi and a number of other female Democratic members of Congress wore white in protest against Trump. Cramer mocked the clothing protest, saying Pelosi dressed "poorly" and remarking, "It is a syndrome. There is no question, there is a disease associated with
A photo shows Democratic U.S. Rep. Maxine Waters and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi posing and smiling in front of a Trump 2020 sign. [SEP] Maxine Waters // giving a euology at Dick Gregory's funeral, she said that she was "cleaning out the White House" and that "when I get through with Donald Trump, he's going to wish he had been impeached." In October 2017, she said the U.S. Congress had enough evidence against Trump to 'be moving on impeachment', in reference to Russian collusion allegations during the 2016 Presidential election, and that Trump "has openly obstructed justice in front of our face." Waters texted an allegation on Twitter regarding the Trump White House, "Trump has made it clear—it is now the White Supremacists' House", linking President Trump
A photo shows Democratic U.S. Rep. Maxine Waters and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi posing and smiling in front of a Trump 2020 sign. [SEP] Nancy Pelosi // Nancy Pelosi Nancy Patricia D'Alesandro Pelosi (; born March 26, 1940) is an American politician serving as the Minority Leader of the United States House of Representatives since 2011. She previously served as the 52nd Speaker of the House from 2007 to 2011, the only woman to have done so. A member of the Democratic Party, Pelosi represents California's 12th congressional district which consists of four-fifths of San Francisco. The district was numbered as the 5th during Pelosi's first three terms in the House, and as the 8th from 1993 to 2013. She served as the House Minority Whip from
A photo shows Democratic U.S. Rep. Maxine Waters and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi posing and smiling in front of a Trump 2020 sign. [SEP] Red Hen restaurant controversy // them.” House Minority Leader and fellow Democrat Nancy Pelosi publicly disagreed with Waters' statements regarding harassing Trump administration officials calling this "unacceptable" and calling for civility saying "we must strive to make America beautiful again". The controversy caused numerous commentators to write on the issue of civility toward political figures. Karl J. Salzmann wrote in "The National Review" that "in the absence of civility, democracy becomes mob rule" and that "without civility we turn toward chaos, anarchy, and ultimately constitutional perdition." In contrast, Professor Gerald Postema distinguished political implications from moral considerations, writing that "we must resist rushing to the
A photo shows Democratic U.S. Rep. Maxine Waters and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi posing and smiling in front of a Trump 2020 sign. [SEP] Breitbart News // which included posters bearing an image of House minority leader Nancy Pelosi's head superimposed onto singer Miley Cyrus's body as seen twerking on California governor Jerry Brown, spoofing the 2013 VMAs. DNC Chairwoman and Florida Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz denounced the images as disrespectful to women. In response, House Majority Whip Kevin McCarthy requested that his column be removed from the site. According to Breitbart News, the inspiration for the ad campaign was a 2013 "Saturday Night Live" skit in which Cyrus appeared as a highly sexualized version of Republican Congresswoman Michele Bachmann alongside a feminine, homosexual version of Republican
Illegal tobacco sales, price driven too high, has been connected to at least several cases of funding terrorism against us in multi-year investigations over the last decade and a half. [SEP] Illicit cigarette trade // Internet is being actively developed—enabling greater reach, more discretion, and lesser chances of being caught. In 2012, French police disrupted this trend through deleting domain names of online trading sites selling tobacco products (WCO 2012). Evidence suggests tobacco smuggling operations have been linked to terrorist organisations such as Hamas and Hezbollah, which utilize these profits to finance terrorism around the world. since the 1980s. The WCO Illicit Trade Report 2012 highlights the illicit tobacco trade represents a good opportunity for organized crime groups and/or terrorists to generate large sums of criminal profits. Billingslea (2004) wrote, terrorist groups work with organized
Illegal tobacco sales, price driven too high, has been connected to at least several cases of funding terrorism against us in multi-year investigations over the last decade and a half. [SEP] Illicit cigarette trade // crime groups as well as International drug trafficking organisations due to their “established trafficking routes and business contacts for the transfer of commodity for profit”. He adds, known and suspected Hezbollah and Hamas members have established front companies and legitimate businesses in the cigarette trade in Central and South America. The IRA (Irish Republican Army) was one of the first groups to begin using cigarettes to fund their activities. Police estimate that the IRA made $100million in the past 5 years from trafficking illicit cigarettes. In the Middle East, the Kurdish Workers Party (PKK) has known involvement in the trafficking
Illegal tobacco sales, price driven too high, has been connected to at least several cases of funding terrorism against us in multi-year investigations over the last decade and a half. [SEP] Illicit cigarette trade // of contraband cigarettes and tax stamps. The EU Commission report that the PKK has been smuggling American cigarettes into Iraq, which were then controlled by Saddam Hussein’s son. The combined efforts from cigarette and oil smuggling was reported to have made Saddam Hussein as much as $2.7billion annually after 1991. Most recently, 16 Palestinian men arrested due to a cigarette smuggling scheme in New York were found to have some ties to convicted terrorists. One criminal in particular, had known financial ties to Omar Abdel-Rahman, a cleric serving a life sentence for a conspiracy to blow up New York City
Illegal tobacco sales, price driven too high, has been connected to at least several cases of funding terrorism against us in multi-year investigations over the last decade and a half. [SEP] United States v. Philip Morris // a landmark 1,683-page opinion holding the tobacco companies liable for conspiracy and violations of RICO by fraudulently covering up the health risks associated with cigarettes and for marketing their products to children. Kessler wrote that the tobacco companies "have marketed and sold their lethal product with zeal, with deception, with a single-minded focus on their financial success, and without regard for the human tragedy or social costs that success exacted." Because the DC Circuit held that RICO permits only forward-looking remedies to prevent and restrain future violations, Judge Kessler ruled that the tobacco companies could not be made to fund
Illegal tobacco sales, price driven too high, has been connected to at least several cases of funding terrorism against us in multi-year investigations over the last decade and a half. [SEP] Illicit cigarette trade // This is known as "the forbidden-fruit effect," among other references. The U.S. government foiled funding operations by Al-Qaeda in New York in 1999 and Hezbollah in North Carolina in 2002. It has been reported that smuggling one truckload of cigarettes within the United States can lead to a profit of US$2 million. Laws specifically pertaining to cigarette smuggling in the United States have included the Contraband Cigarette Trafficking Act of 1978, which makes cigarette smuggling a felony punishable by up to five years in prison. One of the most notable places of cigarette smuggling in the United States is New
Illegal tobacco sales, price driven too high, has been connected to at least several cases of funding terrorism against us in multi-year investigations over the last decade and a half. [SEP] British American Tobacco // a tobacco-smuggling issue that many anti-tobacco activists have been attempting to bring to light for years. Following several investigations, the HMRC reportedly seized more than 1.4 billion cigarettes and 330 tons of hand rolling tobacco in 2013-2014. BAT denied all claims and described the allegation and fine as “unjustified” In late November 2015, an episode of BBC’s Panorama program alleged that BAT was bribing officials in Rwanda, Burundi and Kenya in exchange for their limiting the implementation of the WHO’s Framework Convention on Tobacco Control in their respective countries. The episode showed documents provided by whistleblower Paul Hopkins, who worked
Illegal tobacco sales, price driven too high, has been connected to at least several cases of funding terrorism against us in multi-year investigations over the last decade and a half. [SEP] Counterfeit consumer goods // revenues while foisting on an unsuspecting public a product found to contain toxic substances like faeces, asbestos and dead flies. The harm arising from this amalgam of contaminants sits on top of any baseline hazard ascribed to commercial tobacco products. With the sales of illicit cigarettes in Turkey, for example, exceeding 16.2 billion cigarettes per year, Turkish Prime Minister Erdogan labeled counterfeit tobacco as "more dangerous than terrorism". According to a U.S. Senate committee report in 2012 and reported by ABC News, "counterfeit electronic parts from China are 'flooding' into critical U.S. military systems, including special operations helicopters and surveillance
Illegal tobacco sales, price driven too high, has been connected to at least several cases of funding terrorism against us in multi-year investigations over the last decade and a half. [SEP] Illicit cigarette trade // of the smuggling is dominated by First Nations members (though the bulk of First Nations members and leadership have opposed and condemned tobacco smuggling). Examples include: In Ireland the Irish Republican Army smuggled cigarettes to raise money for weapons and equipment. It may be associated with other criminal activity, for example: In the Republic of Ireland, cigarette prices are amongst the highest in the world due to heavy excise tax: typically €11 (US$12.70, GB£9.70) for a pack of twenty. Because of this, a heavy incentive is created for smuggling from the European Union mainland, where the same pack can cost
Illegal tobacco sales, price driven too high, has been connected to at least several cases of funding terrorism against us in multi-year investigations over the last decade and a half. [SEP] Cigarette taxes in the United States // Tobacco Company agreed to pay a total of $325 million to settle claims related to the smuggling. A Reynolds subsidiary, Northern Brands International Inc., was fined $75 million after pleading guilty under the Canadian Criminal Code to one count of conspiracy for helping others sell contraband cigarettes. While the smuggling operation was ongoing in the 1990s, tobacco companies were lobbying federal and provincial governments to lower cigarette taxes, pointing to the prevalence of contraband product as all the more reason to reduce taxes. Taxes on smokeless (chewing) tobacco, as well as (and often concurrent with) snuff, cigars and pipe tobacco,
Illegal tobacco sales, price driven too high, has been connected to at least several cases of funding terrorism against us in multi-year investigations over the last decade and a half. [SEP] Illicit cigarette trade // Road" when it became a favorite cigarette-smuggling route. The illicit trade of tobacco is both supply and demand driven, as consumers look to save money by evading taxes on tobacco; and suppliers want to take advantage of easy border entry, high profit margins, and weak repercussions if caught. Illegal cigarettes are priced much cheaper than legal cigarettes, and do not undergo stringent regulation in the form of health warnings, product checks, or age verification. Studies highlight that increased tobacco taxes do not dissuade consumers from smoking, rather, consumers turn to cheaper brands and illegal cigarettes. Low costs of production and
John Holdren, director of the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy, "has proposed forcing abortions and putting sterilants in the drinking water to control population. [SEP] John Holdren // John Holdren John Paul Holdren (Sewickley, Pennsylvania, March 1, 1944) is an American scientist who served as the senior advisor to President Barack Obama on science and technology issues through his roles as Assistant to the President for Science and Technology, Director of the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy, and Co-Chair of the President’s Council of Advisors on Science and Technology (PCAST). Holdren was previously the Teresa and John Heinz Professor of Environmental Policy at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University, director of the Science, Technology, and Public Policy Program at the School's Belfer Center
John Holdren, director of the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy, "has proposed forcing abortions and putting sterilants in the drinking water to control population. [SEP] John Holdren // has two children and five grandchildren. John Holdren John Paul Holdren (Sewickley, Pennsylvania, March 1, 1944) is an American scientist who served as the senior advisor to President Barack Obama on science and technology issues through his roles as Assistant to the President for Science and Technology, Director of the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy, and Co-Chair of the President’s Council of Advisors on Science and Technology (PCAST). Holdren was previously the Teresa and John Heinz Professor of Environmental Policy at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University, director of the Science, Technology, and Public Policy
John Holdren, director of the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy, "has proposed forcing abortions and putting sterilants in the drinking water to control population. [SEP] John Holdren // the nomination committee that he does not believe that government should have a role in determining optimal population size and that he never endorsed forced sterilization. Overpopulation was an early concern and interest. In a 1969 article, Holdren and co-author Paul R. Ehrlich argued, "if the population control measures are not initiated immediately, and effectively, all the technology man can bring to bear will not fend off the misery to come." In 1973, Holdren encouraged a decline in fertility to well below replacement in the United States, because "210 million now is too many and 280 million in 2040 is
John Holdren, director of the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy, "has proposed forcing abortions and putting sterilants in the drinking water to control population. [SEP] John Holdren // as board Chairman (2007–2008). He was the founding chair of the advisory board for "Innovations", a quarterly journal about entrepreneurial solutions to global challenges published by MIT Press, and has written and lectured extensively on the topic of global warming. Holdren served as one of President Bill Clinton's science advisors (PCAST) from 1994 to 2001. Eight years later, President Barack Obama nominated Holdren for the position of science advisor and Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy in December 2008, and he was confirmed on March 19, 2009, by a unanimous vote in the Senate. He testified to
John Holdren, director of the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy, "has proposed forcing abortions and putting sterilants in the drinking water to control population. [SEP] John Holdren // the dangers from nuclear weapons and materials, and science and technology policy. He has also taken measures to contextualize the United State's current energy challenge, noting the role that nuclear energy could play. Holdren was involved in the famous Simon–Ehrlich wager in 1980. He, along with two other scientists helped Paul R. Ehrlich establish the bet with Julian Simon, in which they bet that the price of five key metals would be higher in 1990. The bet was centered around a disagreement concerning the future scarcity of resources in an increasingly polluted and heavily populated world. Ehrlich and Holdren lost
John Holdren, director of the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy, "has proposed forcing abortions and putting sterilants in the drinking water to control population. [SEP] Larry Bucshon // back to their main goal of conducting basic science research." During a September 17, 2014 hearing of the Committee on Science, Space and Technology, Bucshon was questioning John Holdren, Director of the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy. When Holdren encouraged Bucshon to read the scientific literature on global warming, Bucshon replied "Of all the climatologists whose careers depend on the climate changing to keep themselves publishing articles -- yes, I could read that, but I don't believe it." Bucshon has a "D" rating from NORML for his voting history regarding cannabis-related causes. Bucshon opposes veterans having access
John Holdren, director of the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy, "has proposed forcing abortions and putting sterilants in the drinking water to control population. [SEP] John Holdren // the bet, when the price of metals had decreased by 1990. Holdren was chair of the Executive Committee of the Pugwash Conferences on Science and World Affairs from 1987 until 1997 and delivered the Nobel Peace Prize acceptance lecture on behalf of Pugwash Conferences in December 1995. From 1993 until 2003, he was chair of the Committee on International Security and Arms Control of the National Academy of Sciences, and Co-Chairman of the bipartisan National Committee on Energy Policy from 2002 until 2007. Holdren was elected President of the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS) (2006–2007), and served
John Holdren, director of the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy, "has proposed forcing abortions and putting sterilants in the drinking water to control population. [SEP] The Population Bomb // world. In order to avoid charges of hypocrisy or racism it would have to take the lead in population reduction efforts. Ehrlich floats the idea of adding "temporary sterilants" to the water supply or staple foods. However, he rejects the idea as unpractical due to "criminal inadequacy of biomedical research in this area." He suggests a tax scheme in which additional children would add to a family's tax burden at increasing rates for more children, as well as luxury taxes on childcare goods. He suggests incentives for men who agree to permanent sterilization before they have two children, as well
John Holdren, director of the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy, "has proposed forcing abortions and putting sterilants in the drinking water to control population. [SEP] Foreign policy of the George W. Bush administration // supported forced abortions and sterilizations in China. His justification came from a group of members of Congress who oppose abortion and an anti-abortion organization called the Population Research Institute, which claimed to have obtained first-hand video taped evidence from victims of forced abortion and forced sterilization in counties where the UNFPA operates in China. This accusation has never been supported by any investigation, and has in fact been disproved by the US State Department, UK, and UN teams sent to examine UNFPA activities in China. The UNFPA points out that it "does not provide support for abortion services". Its charter
John Holdren, director of the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy, "has proposed forcing abortions and putting sterilants in the drinking water to control population. [SEP] Politicization of science // from having abortions. While historically a controversial hypothesis, the debate now is almost entirely political rather than scientific. The most notable example of the politicization of this topic was the modification of the National Cancer Institute (NCI) fact sheet by the George W. Bush administration from concluding no link to a more ambiguous assessment regarding the abortion-breast cancer hypothesis, despite the NCI's scientifically-based assessment to the contrary. In January 2007, the U.S. House Committee on Science, Space and Technology announced the formation of a new subcommittee, the Science Subcommittee on Oversight, which handles investigative and oversight activities on matters covering
Merck wins UK okay for Keytruda in lung cancer after price cut. [SEP] Kenneth Frazier // first PD-1 antibody called Opdivo, filed the suit against Merck in September 2014, alleging that its sale of Keytruda, also a PD-1 antibody, infringed their patents in markets including the United States, parts of Europe, Australia and Japan. Merck will make an initial payment of $625 million to Bristol and Japan's Ono. The company will also pay a 6.5-percent royalty rate on Keytruda sales from January 2017 to December 2023, and a 2.5-percent rate for the subsequent three years. In the first two months of 2017, sales of Keytruda in the US jumped to roughly $260 million, an 80-percent increase
Merck wins UK okay for Keytruda in lung cancer after price cut. [SEP] Merck & Co. // Merck & Co. announced it would spend $95 million up front on collaborating with cCAM Biotherapeutics and its lead candidate (an early-stage treatment similar to Keytruda). The company is due up to $510 million more, which is tied to clinical, regulatory and commercial milestones. Merck & Co. will bring in CM-24, an antibody designed to block the immune checkpoint CEACAM1. In January 2016 Merck & Co. announced two new partnerships; the first with Quartet Medicine and its small molecule pain treatments, the second with Complix investigating intracellular cancer targets, with both collaborations potentially generating up to $595 million and $280
Merck wins UK okay for Keytruda in lung cancer after price cut. [SEP] PD-1 and PD-L1 inhibitors // PD-L1 drugs in combination with other immunotherapy drugs blocking LAG3, B7-H3, KIR, OX40, PARP, CD27, and ICOS. Pembrolizumab (formerly MK-3475 or lambrolizumab, Keytruda) was developed by Merck and first approved by the Food and Drug Administration in 2014 for the treatment of melanoma. It was later approved for metastatic non-small cell lung cancer and head and neck squamous cell carcinoma. In 2017, it became the first immunotherapy drug approved for use based on the genetic mutations of the tumor rather than the site of the tumor. It was shown, that patients with higher non-synonymous mutation burden in their tumors respond
Merck wins UK okay for Keytruda in lung cancer after price cut. [SEP] Checkpoint inhibitor // Squibb) were published in 2010. It was approved in 2014. Nivolumab is approved to treat melanoma, lung cancer, kidney cancer, bladder cancer, head and neck cancer, and Hodgkin's lymphoma. Pembrolizumab (brand name Keytruda) is another PD1 inhibitor that was approved by the FDA in 2014 and was the second checkpoint inhibitor approved in the United States. Keytruda is approved to treat melanoma and lung cancer and is produced by Merck. Spartalizumab (PDR001) is a PD-1 inhibitor currently being developed by Novartis to treat both solid tumors and lymphomas In May 2016, PD-L1 inhibitor atezolizumab was approved for treating bladder cancer.
Merck wins UK okay for Keytruda in lung cancer after price cut. [SEP] Merck Group // chemicals to the electronics industry. In September 2014 Merck halted the clinical development of two drug candidates in development with Oxygen Biotherapeutics. One drug candidate suffered a lack of success in patient recruitment, with its MUC1 antigen-specific cancer immunotherapy drug, tecemotide (L-BLP25), missing its Phase I/II endpoint of increasing overall survival in patients with Stage III non-small cell lung cancer. Later in September it was announced that the company would acquire Sigma-Aldrich for $17 billion. After the acquisition was completed in 2015, Merck has around 50,000 employees. In November 2014, Merck and Pfizer agreed a deal for the latter to
Merck wins UK okay for Keytruda in lung cancer after price cut. [SEP] Cetuximab // in Israel, challenged the Aventis-owned patent, licensed by Imclone, for the use of anti-epidermal growth factor receptor antibodies in combination with chemotherapy, to slow the growth of certain tumors which was filed in 1989 by Rhone-Poulenc-Rorer. The court ruled that Yeda is sole owner of the patent in the U.S., while Yeda and Sanofi-Aventis co-own the patent's foreign counterparts. Cetuximab is given by intravenous therapy and costs up to $30,000 for eight weeks of treatment per patient. Merck KGaA had 887 million euros ($1.15 billion) in Erbitux sales in 2012, from head and neck as well as bowel cancer, while
Merck wins UK okay for Keytruda in lung cancer after price cut. [SEP] Tecemotide // patients with Stage III non-small cell lung cancer did not meet its primary endpoint of an improvement in overall survival, and no treatment effect was seen in any of the secondary endpoints (progression free survival, time to progression or time to failure). Merck made the recommendation to stop the investigational treatment of patients in the EMR 63325-009 study in Japan. Furthermore, Merck KGaA announced its decision to discontinue the Phase III START2 and INSPIRE studies, and all other Merck-sponsored clinical trials with tecemotide in NSCLC worldwide. Merck will continue to supply tecemotide for ongoing investigator-sponsored trials in other indications in
Merck wins UK okay for Keytruda in lung cancer after price cut. [SEP] Programmed cell death protein 1 // a response. Nivolumab (Opdivo, Bristol-Myers Squibb) was approved in Japan in July 2014 and by the US FDA in December 2014 to treat metastatic melanoma. Pembrolizumab (Keytruda, MK-3475, Merck), which also targets PD-1 receptors, was approved by the FDA in Sept 2014 to treat metastatic melanoma. Pembrolizumab has been made accessible to advanced melanoma patients in the UK via UK Early Access to Medicines Scheme (EAMS) in March 2015. It is being used in clinical trials in the US for lung cancer, lymphoma, and mesothelioma. It has had measured success, with little side effects. It is up to the manufacturer
Merck wins UK okay for Keytruda in lung cancer after price cut. [SEP] Pembrolizumab // Pembrolizumab Pembrolizumab (formerly MK-3475 and lambrolizumab, trade name Keytruda) is a humanized antibody used in cancer immunotherapy. It is an IgG4 isotype antibody that blocks a protective mechanism of cancer cells and thereby allows the immune system to destroy them. It targets the programmed cell death 1 (PD-1) receptor of lymphocytes. The FDA initially approved it to treat metastatic melanoma. In 2017 the FDA approved it for any unresectable or metastatic solid tumor with certain genetic anomalies (mismatch repair deficiency or microsatellite instability). This was the first time the FDA approved a cancer drug based on tumor genetics rather than
Merck wins UK okay for Keytruda in lung cancer after price cut. [SEP] Microsatellite instability // May 2017 the FDA made a historic announcement regarding an immunotherapeutic manufactured by Merck with the brand name called Keytruda® (pembrolizumab) (PD-1 inhibitor) was approved for patients with unresectable or metastatic microsatellite instability-high (MSI-H) or mismatch repair deficient (dMMR) solid tumors that have progressed following prior treatment. This indication is independent of PD-L1 expression assessment, tissue type and tumor location. MSI is a good marker for determining Lynch syndrome and determining a prognosis for cancer treatments. In 1996, the National Cancer Institute (NCI) hosted an international workshop on Lynch Syndrome, which led to the development of the “Bethesda Guidelines” and
In the last six years of Cianci’s administration violent crime was down in the United States. It was down in the region. It was down in Rhode Island. But it was up in Providence. [SEP] Buddy Cianci // conspiracy, extortion, witness tampering, and mail fraud. Several other Providence city officials were also indicted. Judge Ronald R. Lagueux said of the case: "Clearly, there is a feeling in city government in Providence that corruption is tolerated. In this mayor's two administrations, there has been more corruption in the City of Providence than in the history of this state." Much of the trial was focused around a video tape showing top Cianci aide Director of Administration Frank A. Corrente taking a bribe. NBC reporterJim Taricani aired the tape on local television station WJAR, and he was sentenced to six months
In the last six years of Cianci’s administration violent crime was down in the United States. It was down in the region. It was down in Rhode Island. But it was up in Providence. [SEP] Politics of Rhode Island // and convicted felon Buddy Cianci attempt to return to politics. The race was seen by many as a referendum on Cianci's legacy, with supporters pointing to the improved infrastructure, city parks, arts scene, and other gains associated with the city's "Renaissance" during Cianci's time as Mayor, while detractors pointed to Cianci's history of violent, criminal behavior and frank, less-than-remorseful admissions to using "public power for personal reasons." In a rare move into municipal politics, President Obama publicly endorsed Cianci's little-known Democratic challenger, Jorge Elorza, as did Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse, who, as a U.S. Attorney, oversaw the investigation that led to
In the last six years of Cianci’s administration violent crime was down in the United States. It was down in the region. It was down in Rhode Island. But it was up in Providence. [SEP] Politics of Rhode Island // Cianci's racketeering charges and eventual conviction in 2002. Even the Republican nominee for Mayor, Dan Harrop, urged citizens to vote for his Democratic opponent Elorza, citing concerns that Cianci would not have the city's best interests at heart. Ultimately, Elorza proved victorious by a margin of 53%-44% over Cianci. It was the first election that Cianci has ever lost. The Rhode Island Democratic Party is the affiliate of the Democratic Party in the state of Rhode Island. Edwin R. Pacheco is the chairman of the Party. For the past five decades, the Democratic Party has dominated politics in Rhode Island.
In the last six years of Cianci’s administration violent crime was down in the United States. It was down in the region. It was down in Rhode Island. But it was up in Providence. [SEP] Buddy Cianci // Patriarca. Patriarca was found not guilty, but Cianci won praise for being an Italian-American fighting "The Mob", in the same year that the film The Godfather was painting an unflattering image of Italian-Americans in the media. In 1973, he became the prosecutor of the Rhode Island Attorney General's Anti-Corruption Strike Force, a position he held until his first election as mayor in 1974. As part of this task force, Cianci was involved in an investigation of Providence Mayor Joseph A. Doorley Jr. Cianci was gaining a reputation as an anti-corruption crusader. During this time, Cianci gained political experience working on
In the last six years of Cianci’s administration violent crime was down in the United States. It was down in the region. It was down in Rhode Island. But it was up in Providence. [SEP] History of Providence, Rhode Island // three decades, during which murders and kidnappings became commonplace. The city's experienced a sort of Renaissance in the late 1970s and early 1980s, as $606 million of local and national Community Development funds was invested throughout the city and the declining population began to stabilize. In the 1990s, Mayor Buddy Cianci showcased the city's strength in arts and pushed for further revitalization, ultimately resulting in opening up the city's rivers (which had been paved over), relocation of a large section of railroad underground, creation of Waterplace Park and river walks along the river's banks, and construction of the Fleet Skating
In the last six years of Cianci’s administration violent crime was down in the United States. It was down in the region. It was down in Rhode Island. But it was up in Providence. [SEP] Buddy Cianci // Cianci's estranged wife disputed the relationship. Providence municipal regulations prohibit a convicted felon from holding public office; ironically, Cianci had promulgated the rule a few years earlier. After Cianci's resignation, a special election was held to name a replacement. Cianci attempted to run in the election under the rubric that he had been convicted of a felony, but received a five-year suspended sentence rather than being sent to prison. After a few weeks it was decided by the Rhode Island Supreme Court that Cianci could not run in the special election, because the legislative intent was that the convicted incumbent
In the last six years of Cianci’s administration violent crime was down in the United States. It was down in the region. It was down in Rhode Island. But it was up in Providence. [SEP] David Cicilline // of Democratic Mayors. As mayor, he was a member of the Mayors Against Illegal Guns Coalition, a bi-partisan group with the stated goal of "making the public safer by getting illegal guns off the streets." The Coalition was co-chaired by Boston Mayor Thomas Menino and New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg. In 2009, Cicilline served as one of six selection committee members for the Rudy Bruner Award for Urban Excellence. Cicilline's administration focused on the residential neighborhoods of Providence, as well as the "Renaissance" areas of downtown and Federal Hill that thrived under Cianci, and continued the promotion of the
In the last six years of Cianci’s administration violent crime was down in the United States. It was down in the region. It was down in Rhode Island. But it was up in Providence. [SEP] Buddy Cianci // Buddy Cianci Vincent Albert "Buddy" Cianci Jr. (, ; , ; April 30, 1941 – January 28, 2016) was an American lawyer, radio talk show host, politician, and political commentator who served as the mayor of Providence, Rhode Island (1975–84, 1991–2002). Cianci was the longest-serving mayor of Providence and one of the longest-serving "big city" mayors in United States history, having held office for over 21 years. Cianci was twice elected Mayor of Providence and also served as a prosecutor and attorney. Notably, he was forced to resign from office twice due to felony convictions. His first administration ended in
In the last six years of Cianci’s administration violent crime was down in the United States. It was down in the region. It was down in Rhode Island. But it was up in Providence. [SEP] Frederick Lippitt // political rival, was re-elected as mayor of Providence in 1994 and 1998. In April 2001 Cianci was indicted on corruption changes stemming from a Federal investigation named Operation Plunder Dome and was subsequently convicted. In September 2002 Cianci resigned from office after being sentenced to five years in prison. Cianci was released from prison in 2007 and resumed his career as a radio talk show host on WPRO. In June 2014 Cianci announced his candidacy for mayor of Providence in that year's election. Cianci narrowly lost the election to Democrat Jorge Elorza and returned to being a talk show host.
In the last six years of Cianci’s administration violent crime was down in the United States. It was down in the region. It was down in Rhode Island. But it was up in Providence. [SEP] Buddy Cianci // than the minimum required by the Federal Sentencing Guidelines. Cianci was forced by law to resign immediately following the sentencing. Between his sentencing and the start of his jail term, Cianci resumed his radio career hosting a midday show with former Providence radio host (and former director of communications to Governor Don Carcieri) Steve Kass on AM talk station WPRO. After some legal wrangling, Cianci's lawyers managed to have him sent to prison closer to Rhode Island, and Cianci served his sentence at the Federal Correctional Institution, Fort Dix, in Burlington County, New Jersey. Cianci appealed the conviction to the
Many younger U.S. adults skipping flu shots: report. [SEP] Influenza vaccine // lack of high-quality evidence. Reviews of case–control studies found effects against laboratory-confirmed influenza, pneumonia, and death among the community-dwelling elderly. The group most vulnerable to non-pandemic flu, the elderly, benefits least from the vaccine. There are multiple reasons behind this steep decline in vaccine efficacy, the most common of which are the declining immunological function and frailty associated with advanced age. In a non-pandemic year, a person in the United States aged 50–64 is nearly ten times more likely to die an influenza-associated death than a younger person, and a person over age 65 is over ten times more likely
Many younger U.S. adults skipping flu shots: report. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic in the United Kingdom // anti-virals as soon as possible after infection. High-risk groups include people with long-term conditions, those over 65, children under five and pregnant women. A study at the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention published in May 2009 found that children had no pre-existing immunity to the new strain but that adults, particularly those over 60, had some degree of immunity. Children showed no cross-reactive antibody reaction to the new strain, adults aged 18 to 64 had 6–9%, and older adults 33%. The large proportion of cases in the UK affecting children and young adults is consistent with this pattern
Many younger U.S. adults skipping flu shots: report. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic // had 6–9%, and older adults 33%. While it has been thought that these findings suggest the partial immunity in older adults may be due to previous exposure to similar seasonal influenza viruses, a November 2009 study of a rural unvaccinated population in China found only a 0.3% cross-reactive antibody reaction to the H1N1 strain, suggesting that previous vaccinations for seasonal flu and not exposure may have resulted in the immunity found in the older U.S. population. Analyses of the genetic sequences of the first isolates, promptly shared on the GISAID database according to Nature and WHO, soon determined that the
Many younger U.S. adults skipping flu shots: report. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic // UK, the NHS recommended vaccine priority go to people over six months old who were clinically at risk for seasonal flu, pregnant women and households of people with compromised immunity. Although it was initially thought that two injections would be required, clinical trials showed that the new vaccine protected adults "with only one dose instead of two", and so the limited vaccine supplies would go twice as far as had been predicted. Health officials worldwide were also concerned because the virus was new and could easily mutate and become more virulent, even though most flu symptoms were mild and lasted
Many younger U.S. adults skipping flu shots: report. [SEP] Influenza vaccine // to die an influenza-associated death than the 50–64 age group. There is a high-dose flu vaccine specifically formulated to provide a stronger immune response. Available evidence indicates that vaccinating the elderly with the high-dose vaccine leads to a stronger immune response against influenza than the regular-dose vaccine. A flu vaccine containing an adjuvant was approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in November 2015, for use by adults aged 65 years of age and older. The vaccine is marketed as Fluad in the U.S. and was first available in the 2016–2017 flu season. The vaccine contains the MF59C.1
Many younger U.S. adults skipping flu shots: report. [SEP] Influenza vaccine // Immunization, the group that advises the Public Health Agency of Canada, recommended that everyone aged two to 64 years be encouraged to receive annual influenza vaccination, and that children between the age of six and 24 months, and their household contacts, should be considered a high priority for the flu vaccine. The NACI also recommends the flu vaccine for: The European Center for Disease Prevention and Control recommends vaccinating the elderly as a priority, with a secondary priority people with chronic medical conditions and healthcare workers. The influenza vaccination strategy is generally that of protecting vulnerable people, rather than limiting
Many younger U.S. adults skipping flu shots: report. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic vaccine // injection, headache, malaise, and muscle pain. Two people had more severe events, with a much longer spell of nausea, muscle pain and malaise that lasted several days. The authors stated that the frequency and severity of these adverse events were similar to those normally seen with seasonal influenza vaccines. A second trial involved 2,200 people ranging from 3 to 77 years of age. In this study no patients reported serious adverse events, with the most commonly observed events being pain at the injection site and fever, which occurred in 10–25% of people. Although this trial followed up patients individually, the
Many younger U.S. adults skipping flu shots: report. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic // an emergency use authorization from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration in April 2009. Tests results are available in four hours and are 96% accurate. The virus was found to be a novel strain of influenza for which extant vaccines against seasonal flu provided little protection. A study at the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention published in May 2009 found that children had no preexisting immunity to the new strain but that adults, particularly those older than 60, had some degree of immunity. Children showed no cross-reactive antibody reaction to the new strain, adults aged 18 to 60
Many younger U.S. adults skipping flu shots: report. [SEP] Spanish flu // U.S. occurred in people under 65, and nearly half in young adults 20 to 40 years old. In 1920, the mortality rate among people under 65 had decreased sixfold to half the mortality rate of people over 65, but still 92% of deaths occurred in people under 65. This is unusual, since influenza is normally most deadly to weak individuals, such as infants (under age two), the very old (over age 70), and the immunocompromised. In 1918, older adults may have had partial protection caused by exposure to the 1889–1890 flu pandemic, known as the Russian flu. According to historian
Many younger U.S. adults skipping flu shots: report. [SEP] Influenza vaccine // 10% of vaccinated adults do. Vaccination decreased confirmed cases of influenza from about 2.4% to 1.1%. No effect on hospitalization was found. In working adults a review by the Cochrane Collaboration found that vaccination resulted in a modest decrease in both influenza symptoms and working days lost, without affecting transmission or influenza-related complications. In healthy working adults, influenza vaccines can provide moderate protection against virologically confirmed influenza, though such protection is greatly reduced or absent in some seasons. In health care workers, a 2006 review found a net benefit. Of the eighteen studies in this review, only two also assessed
The FDA has updated its warnings for — and recommended limitations on — prescribing a class of antibiotics called fluoroquinolones, citing potentially irreversible side-effects including tendon damage and rupture. [SEP] Levofloxacin // The FDA wrote: "An FDA safety review has shown that fluoroquinolones when used systemically (i.e. tablets, capsules, and injectable) are associated with disabling and potentially permanent serious side effects that can occur together. These side effects can involve the tendons, muscles, joints, nerves, and central nervous system." Such injuries, including tendon rupture, has been observed up to 6 months after cessation of treatment; the elderly, transplant patients, and those with a current or historical corticosteroid use are at elevated risk. A detailed overview of risk factors for fluoroquinolone-associated tendon rupture has been published; advanced age, concurrent treatment with corticosteroids, and
The FDA has updated its warnings for — and recommended limitations on — prescribing a class of antibiotics called fluoroquinolones, citing potentially irreversible side-effects including tendon damage and rupture. [SEP] Quinolone antibiotic // and uncomplicated urinary tract infections. Reports of serious adverse events began emerging, and The FDA first added a Boxed Warning to fluoroquinolones in July 2008 for the increased risk of tendinitis and tendon rupture. In February 2011, the risk of worsening symptoms for those with myasthenia gravis was added to the Boxed Warning. In August 2013, the agency required updates to the labels to describe the potential for irreversible peripheral neuropathy (serious nerve damage). In November 2015, an FDA Advisory Committee discussed the risks and benefits of fluoroquinolones for the treatment of acute bacterial sinusitis, acute bacterial exacerbation of chronic
The FDA has updated its warnings for — and recommended limitations on — prescribing a class of antibiotics called fluoroquinolones, citing potentially irreversible side-effects including tendon damage and rupture. [SEP] Quinolone antibiotic // uncomplicated urinary tract infections when there are other treatment options. In 2008 the FDA added black box warning on all fluoroquinolones, advising of the increased risk of tendon damage. In 2016 the FDA found that when used systemically (by mouth or injectable) "disabling and potentially permanent serious side effects" can involve the tendons, muscles, joints, nerves, and central nervous system. Concerns regarding low blood sugar and mental health problems were added in 2018. Quinolones are associated with a small risk of tendonitis and tendon rupture; a 2013 review found the incidence of tendon injury among those taking fluoroquinolones to be
The FDA has updated its warnings for — and recommended limitations on — prescribing a class of antibiotics called fluoroquinolones, citing potentially irreversible side-effects including tendon damage and rupture. [SEP] Norfloxacin // that are associated with all members of the fluoroquinolone antibacterial class. Among these, tendon problems and exacerbation of the symptoms of the neurological disorder myasthenia gravis are the subject of "black box" warnings in the United States. The most severe form of tendonopathy associated with fluoroquinolone administration is tendon rupture, which in the great majority of cases involves the Achilles tendon. Younger people typically experience good recovery, but permanent disability is possible, and is more likely in older patients. The overall frequency of fluoroquinolone-associated Achilles tendon rupture in patients treated with ciprofloxacin or levofloxacin has been estimated at 17 per
The FDA has updated its warnings for — and recommended limitations on — prescribing a class of antibiotics called fluoroquinolones, citing potentially irreversible side-effects including tendon damage and rupture. [SEP] Gemifloxacin // or more of the following antibiotics: penicillin, 2nd generation cephalosporins, e.g., cefuroxime, macrolides, tetracyclines and trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole. Fluoroquinolones are generally well tolerated with most side effects being mild and serious adverse effects being rarely. Some of the serious adverse effects which occur more commonly with fluoroquinolones than with other antibiotic drug classes include CNS and tendon toxicity. The currently marketed quinolones have safety profiles similar to that of other antimicrobial classes. The serious events may occur with therapeutic or with acute overdose. At therapeutic doses they include: central nervous system toxicity, cardiovascular toxicity, tendon / articular toxicity, and rarely hepatic toxicity.
The FDA has updated its warnings for — and recommended limitations on — prescribing a class of antibiotics called fluoroquinolones, citing potentially irreversible side-effects including tendon damage and rupture. [SEP] Ofloxacin // neurological disorder myasthenia gravis are the subject of "black box" warnings in the United States. The most severe form of tendonopathy associated with fluoroquinolone administration is tendon rupture, which in the great majority of cases involves the Achilles tendon. Younger people typically experience good recovery, but permanent disability is possible, and is more likely in older patients. The overall frequency of fluoroquinolone-associated Achilles tendon rupture in patients treated with ciprofloxacin or levofloxacin has been estimated at 17 per 100,000 treatments. Risk is substantially elevated in the elderly and in those with recent exposure to topical or systemic corticosteroid therapy. Simultaneous
The FDA has updated its warnings for — and recommended limitations on — prescribing a class of antibiotics called fluoroquinolones, citing potentially irreversible side-effects including tendon damage and rupture. [SEP] Ofloxacin // adverse events in patients treated with fluoroquinolones is roughly similar to that seen in patients treated with other antibiotic classes. A U.S. Centers for Disease Control study found patients treated with fluoroquinolones experienced adverse events severe enough to lead to an emergency department visit more frequently than those treated with cephalosporins or macrolides, but less frequently than those treated with penicillins, clindamycin, sulfonamides, or vancomycin. Post-marketing surveillance has revealed a variety of relatively rare but serious adverse effects that are associated with all members of the fluoroquinolone antibacterial class. Among these, tendon problems and exacerbation of the symptoms of the
The FDA has updated its warnings for — and recommended limitations on — prescribing a class of antibiotics called fluoroquinolones, citing potentially irreversible side-effects including tendon damage and rupture. [SEP] Quinolone antibiotic // between 0.08 and 0.2%. The risk appears to be higher among people older than 60 and those also taking corticosteroids; there may also be higher risk among people who are male, have a pre-existing joint or tendon issue, have kidney disease, and are highly active. Some experts have advised avoidance of fluoroquinolones in athletes. If tendonitis occurs, it generally appears within one month, and the most common tendon that is injured appears to be the Achilles tendon. The cause is not well understood. Nervous system effects include insomnia, restlessness, and rarely, seizure, convulsions, and psychosis. Other rare and serious adverse
The FDA has updated its warnings for — and recommended limitations on — prescribing a class of antibiotics called fluoroquinolones, citing potentially irreversible side-effects including tendon damage and rupture. [SEP] Gemifloxacin // Events that may occur in acute overdose are rare and include: renal failure and seizure. Children and the elderly are at greater risk. Tendon damage may manifest during, as well as up to a year after fluoroquinolone therapy. The FDA ordered a black box warnings on all fluoroquinolones advising consumers of the possible toxic effects of fluoroquinolones on tendons. On August 15, 2013 the FDA issued a Safety Announcement where they described that they are requiring the medication guides and drug labels for all fluoroquinolones to be updated and better describe the risk for peripheral neuropathy. The peripheral neuropathy may
The FDA has updated its warnings for — and recommended limitations on — prescribing a class of antibiotics called fluoroquinolones, citing potentially irreversible side-effects including tendon damage and rupture. [SEP] Quinolone antibiotic // as well as headache and insomnia. Postmarketing surveillance has revealed a variety of relatively rare but serious adverse effects that are associated with all members of the fluoroquinolone antibacterial class. Among these, tendon problems and exacerbation of the symptoms of the neurological disorder myasthenia gravis are the subject of "black box" warnings in the United States. The overall rate of adverse events in people treated with fluoroquinolones is roughly similar to that seen in people treated with other antibiotic classes. A U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention study found peopletreated with fluoroquinolones experienced adverse events severe enough to lead
The WHO coronavirus test “was a bad test.” [SEP] Middle East respiratory syndrome // pneumonia and acute renal failure. After routine diagnostics failed to identify the causative agent, Zaki contacted Ron Fouchier, a leading virologist at the Erasmus Medical Center (EMC) in Rotterdam, the Netherlands, for advice. Fouchier sequenced the virus from a sample sent by Zaki. Fouchier used a broad-spectrum "pan-coronavirus" real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) method to test for distinguishing features of a number of known coronaviruses (such as OC43, 229R, NL63, and SARS-CoV), as well as for RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp), a gene conserved in all coronaviruses known to infect humans. While the screens for known coronaviruses were all negative, the
The WHO coronavirus test “was a bad test.” [SEP] Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus // and were therefore delaying the development of diagnostic tests. Erasmus MC responded that the patent application did not restrict public health research into MERS coronavirus, and that the virus and diagnostic tests were shipped—free of charge—to all that requested such reagents. There are a number of mapping efforts focused on tracking MERS coronavirus. On 2 May 2014, the Corona Map was launched to track the MERS coronavirus in realtime on the world map. The data is officially reported by WHO or the Ministry of Health of the respective country. HealthMap also tracks case reports with inclusion of news and social
The WHO coronavirus test “was a bad test.” [SEP] Coronavirus // 2013, a case of contamination from human to human in France was confirmed by the French Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. In addition, cases of person-to-person transmission have been reported by the Ministry of Health in Tunisia. Two confirmed cases seem to have caught the disease from their late father, who became ill after a visit to Qatar and Saudi Arabia. By Oct. 30 2013, there were 124 cases and 52 deaths in Saudi Arabia. After the Dutch Erasmus Medical Centre sequenced the virus, the virus was given a new name, Human Corona Virus-Erasmus Medical Centre (HCoV-EMC). The final
The WHO coronavirus test “was a bad test.” [SEP] Bovine coronavirus // nasal washes – which identifies the viral antigen. The haemagglutination inhibition test can be used to establish the strain of coronavirus. Animals should be treated symptomatically. The disease can be controlled by vaccinating the dam with a live vaccine (ATCvet code QI02) whilst she is pregnant as this provides antibodies to the virus in the colostrum. Additional management factors such as ensuring adequate colostrum intake in newborn calves, using appropriate hygiene methods and ventilation of housing reduce disease incidence. Bovine coronavirus Bovine coronavirus (BCV) is as a member of the Coronaviridae family which are enveloped, single-stranded, positive-sense RNA viruses with
The WHO coronavirus test “was a bad test.” [SEP] World Health Assembly // citizens by limiting scientific investigations. Following the 2012 MERS outbreak in Saudi Arabia, Deputy Health Minister Ziad Memish raised concerns that scientists who applied for a patent would not allow the MERS-coronavirus to be used for investigations by other scientists and were therefore delaying the development of diagnostic tests. Ten of the 22 people who died and 22 of 44 cases reported were in Saudi Arabia. Saudi Arabia–based microbiologist Ali Mohamed Zaki reported the first known case, a 60-year-old Saudi man who got sick in June, 2012 on ProMed-mail, a public health on-line forum then published more details including the
The WHO coronavirus test “was a bad test.” [SEP] Middle East respiratory syndrome // based on the virus's RNA obtained from the Qatari case. On 25 September 2012, the WHO announced that it was "engaged in further characterizing the novel coronavirus" and that it had "immediately alerted all its Member States about the virus and has been leading the coordination and providing guidance to health authorities and technical health agencies." The Erasmus Medical Center (EMC) in Rotterdam "tested, sequenced and identified" a sample provided to EMC virologist Ron Fouchier by Ali Mohamed Zaki in November 2012. On 8 November 2012 in an article published in the New England Journal of Medicine, Dr. Zaki and
The WHO coronavirus test “was a bad test.” [SEP] Coronavirus // in a small number of nucleotides. In 2003, following the outbreak of Severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) which had begun the prior year in Asia, and secondary cases elsewhere in the world, the World Health Organization (WHO) issued a press release stating that a novel coronavirus identified by a number of laboratories was the causative agent for SARS. The virus was officially named the SARS coronavirus (SARS-CoV). The epidemic resulted in over 8,000 infections, about 10% of which resulted in death. X-ray crystallography studies performed at the Advanced Light Source of Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory have begun to give hope
The WHO coronavirus test “was a bad test.” [SEP] Human coronavirus HKU1 // these cases, French investigators utilized improved techniques for recovering the virus from nasopharyngeal aspirates and from stool samples. Human coronavirus HKU1 Human coronavirus HKU1 (HCoV-HKU1) is a positive-sense, single-stranded RNA virus with the HE gene, which distinguishes it as a group 2, or betacoronavirus. It was discovered in January 2005 in two patients in Hong Kong. HCoV-HKU1 was first identified in January, 2005, in a 71-year-old man who was hospitalized with an acute respiratory distress and radiolographically confirmed bilateral pneumonia. The man had recently returned to Hong Kong from Shenzhen, China. Woo, et al., were unsuccessful in their attempts to
The WHO coronavirus test “was a bad test.” [SEP] World Health Assembly // virus’s genetic makeup and closest relatives. The Erasmus Medical Center "tested, sequenced and identified" a sample provided by Ali Mohamed Zaki. Erasmus MC and Dr. Zaki strongly refuted all allegations concerning a presumed lack of willingness to cooperate in research into the new MERS coronavirus, making diagnostic tests and virus specimens freely available to all research institutions around the globe. The 67th WHA took place in Geneva on 19–24 May 2014. Among the more than 20 resolutions adopted by the Assembly included ones concerning strengthening of national drug management systems to address antimicrobial resistance; implementation of the Minamata Convention to
The WHO coronavirus test “was a bad test.” [SEP] SARS coronavirus // mapping the genetic sequence of a coronavirus believed to be linked to SARS. The team was led by Dr. Marco Marra and worked in collaboration with the British Columbia Centre for Disease Control and the National Microbiology Laboratory in Winnipeg, Manitoba, using samples from infected patients in Toronto. The map, hailed by the WHO as an important step forward in fighting SARS, is shared with scientists worldwide via the GSC website (see below). Dr. Donald Low of Mount Sinai Hospital in Toronto described the discovery as having been made with "unprecedented speed". The sequence of the SARS coronavirus has since
On September 18 2020, Twitter user @JohnCammo tweeted that President Trump's "October Surprise" would involve a positive test result. [SEP] October surprise // reported that 650,000 emails on Weiner's computer were to be investigated, potentially being relevant to this particular and other cases. A caravan of refugees from Central America became the "October surprise" of 2018. President Trump tweeted false information about the caravan, intending to stir up race-based fear among voters in an apparent attempt to get more Republican voters. Trump would later release a Republican television advertisement that many criticized as racist (Fox News, NBC, and Facebook removed the advertisement after they considered it racist and CNN refused to air it). The story became a key talking point during the midterm
On September 18 2020, Twitter user @JohnCammo tweeted that President Trump's "October Surprise" would involve a positive test result. [SEP] Donald Trump on social media // Presidential Twitter account (@POTUS), which had been created by the previous President, Barack Obama. Trump's first tweets as president were made from his personal account, but he has used both accounts. Trump is a known viewer of the Fox News show "Fox & Friends" and has tweeted reactions to what he has seen on the show on numerous occasions. One well-known example is his tweet on January 2, 2018, when he stated that his "Nuclear Button" was "much bigger & more powerful" than Kim Jong Un's, following a Fox News segment about Jong Un's "Nuclear Button" minutes before. Trump watches
On September 18 2020, Twitter user @JohnCammo tweeted that President Trump's "October Surprise" would involve a positive test result. [SEP] Social policy of Donald Trump // reaction among his supporters." In the September 2016 presidential debate, when asked if he would honor the outcome of the election, Trump said that he "absolutely" would. Four days later, Trump appeared to have reconsidered his statement from the debate, saying "We're going to have to see. We're going to see what happens. We're going to have to see." In early- and mid-October 2016, Trump repeatedly claimed that the election was "rigged" and alleged that the media coordinated with the Clinton campaign, citing Alec Baldwin's portrayal of him on "Saturday Night Live". In October 2016, after early voting and voting
On September 18 2020, Twitter user @JohnCammo tweeted that President Trump's "October Surprise" would involve a positive test result. [SEP] Political positions of Donald Trump // of his long-form birth certificate, despite the fact that he continued to question Obama's citizenship in the years that followed. The next day, Trump tweeted a "Washington Post" story with the headline "Donald Trump's birther event is the greatest trick he's ever pulled". The "greatest trick" of the headline referred to the fact that cable networks aired the event live, waiting for a "birther" statement, while Trump touted his new hotel and supporters gave testimonials. In October 2016, Trump appeared to question the legitimacy of Barack Obama's presidency, referring to him at a rally as the "quote 'president. Trump caused
On September 18 2020, Twitter user @JohnCammo tweeted that President Trump's "October Surprise" would involve a positive test result. [SEP] Matt Lauer // which Sheen revealed that he was HIV-positive. On September 8, 2016, Lauer conducted separate 30-minute interviews with presidential candidates Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump. "The New York Times" reported that the reaction to Lauer's performance was "not kind". Lauer devoted much of the Clinton interview to questions about her e-mail server, and according to critics appeared to rush through audience-led topics such as domestic terror attacks and veterans' affairs, implying that there was not enough time to cover these in detail. Many also felt that Lauer failed to challenge Trump on alleged inaccuracies, such as his statement that he was
On September 18 2020, Twitter user @JohnCammo tweeted that President Trump's "October Surprise" would involve a positive test result. [SEP] JobsNotMobs // Ben Schreckinger who tracked the slogan down using a third-party tool, The First Tweet, the first person to use it was probable Danny East, a Twitter user in Georgia who had about 500 followers and who used the phrase on October 11 in response to video of Trump speaking. Adams popularized the slogan by endorsing it on October 12th.. The phrase was retweeted by activist Turning Point USA and actor James Woods before being publicized on Fox & Friends on October 15. It was being widely retweeted by 18 October, when President Trump first retweeted it. It continued to grow
On September 18 2020, Twitter user @JohnCammo tweeted that President Trump's "October Surprise" would involve a positive test result. [SEP] Donald Trump 2016 presidential campaign // to his audience is unprecedented as a campaign tool. On November 22, 2015, Trump retweeted an image containing racially charged and inaccurate crime data between blacks and whites, cited to a non-existent group. According to "Newsweek", the image appeared to originate with a neo-Nazi Twitter account. When later asked by Bill O'Reilly about his sharing of the image, Trump confirmed that he had personally retweeted the image and said that it came from "sources that are very credible." The Annenberg Public Policy Center's FactCheck.org reported that the image was a "bogus graphic." On February 28, Trump re-tweeted a Mussolini quote
On September 18 2020, Twitter user @JohnCammo tweeted that President Trump's "October Surprise" would involve a positive test result. [SEP] October surprise // elections with many Republican politicians reiterating the false statements made by Trump and with Democrats denouncing the racist tones of Trump's statements. The story dominated discussion on many news networks, with many pundits criticizing Trump. News host Shepard Smith said on his Fox News show that the migrant caravan "hysteria" was actually intended to stoke fear before the midterm election and ridiculed Trump's claims. October surprise In American political jargon, an October surprise is a news event deliberately created or timed or sometimes occurring spontaneously to influence the outcome of an election, particularly one for the U.S. presidency. The reference
On September 18 2020, Twitter user @JohnCammo tweeted that President Trump's "October Surprise" would involve a positive test result. [SEP] Executive Order 13799 // Election Integrity"), which was signed by President Trump on January 3, 2018. During his campaign for President, Donald Trump made numerous claims of large-scale voter fraud occurring in the United States which have been criticized as lacking evidence by commentators including FactCheck.org. In the run-up to the election, Trump also asked his supporters to volunteer as "poll watchers" on Election Day, leading to fears from some of voter intimidation. On November 8, 2016, Donald Trump won the 2016 United States presidential election electoral college vote 304 to 227, although his opponent, Hillary Clinton, had received 2.9 million more votes. After
On September 18 2020, Twitter user @JohnCammo tweeted that President Trump's "October Surprise" would involve a positive test result. [SEP] Donald Trump 2020 presidential campaign // took the stage to deafening applause, 'the unborn babies, thank you for standing for life.'" On October 22, 2018, President Trump declared himself a Nationalist. During his campaign rally in Houston that night, Trump declared “I am a nationalist. It’s a word that hasn’t been used too much. Some people use it, but I’m very proud. I think it should be brought back." The controversial use of the word "Nationalism" is recognized in Trump's own statement on October 22, as he stated, "And I say, really, we’re not supposed to use that word. You know what I am? I’m a
On mandatory ultrasounds before abortions. [SEP] Types of abortion restrictions in the United States // allowed to have the procedure. Mandatory transvaginal ultrasounds have been particularly controversial. In Texas, for instance, even if previous ultrasounds had indicated severe congenital defects, a woman seeking an abortion was required under a 2012 law to have another ultrasound done, "administered by her abortion doctor, and [she had to] listen to a state-mandated description of the fetus she was about to abort", though state-issued guidelines later did away with that ultrasound if the fetus had an "irreversible medical condition". On November 12, 2013, the U.S. Supreme Court declined to hear an appeal by the state of Oklahoma to the
On mandatory ultrasounds before abortions. [SEP] War on Women // notes that "the use of trans-vaginal ultrasounds is routine among abortion providers." Virginia State legislators passed a bill in 2012 requiring women to have an ultrasound before having an abortion. The legislation, signed by Governor Bob McDonnell, would require that the provider of an abortion make a copy of the fetal image and include it in the file of the patient. In Louisiana, where pregnant women are already required to view ultrasounds of their fetuses before receiving an abortion, lawmakers proposed a bill that would require them to listen to the embryonic/fetal heartbeat as well. Pennsylvania Governor Tom Corbett drew
On mandatory ultrasounds before abortions. [SEP] North Carolina Women's Right to Know Act // is the third state to approve a law requiring that a woman be shown an ultrasound before her abortion". "Barbara Holt, president of North Carolina Right to Life and a supporter of the new law, said the ultrasound requirement will help women make fully informed decisions."The ultrasound is a window into the womb and the opportunity for this mother to get scientifically accurate information about a procedure that is going to have great consequences for her and for her child. It's a life or death decision," Holt said. Supporters claim the law is an attempt to ensure that women are
On mandatory ultrasounds before abortions. [SEP] Deb Fischer // 675, which required abortion providers to display ultrasound images of the fetus at least one hour prior to the abortions, in a position where the abortion seeker could easily view them. A spokesman for the National Right to Life Committee stated that the Nebraska law was stronger than those of other states, which only required that the client be asked if she wanted to see an ultrasound image. The measure passed by a 40–5 vote, and was signed into law by Governor Dave Heineman. TENURE Fischer's district was geographically the largest in the Nebraska Legislature, comprising 12 counties and part
On mandatory ultrasounds before abortions. [SEP] Types of abortion restrictions in the United States // overturning of a bill that mandated compulsory ultrasound examinations. Some states require that a person seeking an abortion wait for a period of one to six days, variously, after visiting the provider for the first time and before having the abortion. The state of South Dakota requires that the patient obtain mandatory counseling from an anti-abortion crisis pregnancy center during this time frame. This type of legislation requires either that a woman be required to listen to her fetus's heartbeat should she attempt to obtain an abortion, or, more rigidly, that abortion become illegal as soon as a heartbeat can
On mandatory ultrasounds before abortions. [SEP] Bob Marshall (Virginia politician) // on to pass 54-46 in the House but ultimately failed in the Senate. During the 2012 legislative session, Marshall and other Republicans supported a measure (SB484/HB462) to require women in Virginia to undergo a trans-vaginal ultrasound procedure before being allowed to have a legal abortion. Public protests about this invasive procedure caused Virginia Governor Robert McDonnell to withdraw his support for the bill. It was then amended to require only an "external" transabdominal ultrasound procedure. Critics argued it was not medically required or indicated, while other physicians and ultrasound technicians argued a trans-vaginal ultrasound is essential both before and after
On mandatory ultrasounds before abortions. [SEP] War on Women // federal funding for health care and being held up to scorn as having 'declared war on women.'" In 2011 and 2012, "War on Women" was used to describe the legislation passed by many states requiring that women seeking abortions first undergo government-mandated ultrasounds. Some states require that women view the image of the fetus and others require that women be offered the opportunity to listen to the fetal heartbeat. Since many women's pregnancies are not far enough along to get an image via a traditional ultrasound, transvaginal ultrasounds, which involve the physician inserting a probe into the woman's vagina, may
On mandatory ultrasounds before abortions. [SEP] North Carolina Women's Right to Know Act // change in the people; this is a change in the leadership," he said". "An Oklahoma County judge has permanently blocked a state law that requires women seeking abortions to have an ultrasound and listen to a detailed description of the fetus before prior to the abortion. District Judge Brian Dixon handed down an order Wednesday ruling that the law is unconstitutional and unenforceable. The order says the statute passed in 2010 is an unconstitutional special law because it addresses only patients and physicians concerning abortions and not other medical care. Enforcement of the law has been blocked since shortly after
On mandatory ultrasounds before abortions. [SEP] Bob McDonnell // Virginia state legislature, controlled by Republicans, to require a trans-vaginal ultrasound for any woman contemplating an abortion in Virginia. McDonnell initially supported the bill, but backed off after public protests. He persuaded the legislators to pass instead a slightly watered-down version requiring a less invasive abdominal ultrasound before an abortion and exempting women who were pregnant as a result of rape or incest, provided they reported it to the police. The redrafted bill was opposed by pro-choice groups and a minority in the legislature, but McDonnell signed it into law on March 7, 2012. McDonnell was called "Governor Vagina", "Governor
On mandatory ultrasounds before abortions. [SEP] Political activity of the Knights of Columbus // death penalty, or other things they consider offenses against life. The Knights have consistently donated to pro-life causes, including millions annually to their Ultrasound Initiative in the United States and Canada. The Knights believe that, because ultrasound machines are so expensive, without their active financial support many pregnancy care centers would not be able to afford them. During a pregnancy, ultrasound exams are medically necessary for a variety of diagnostic reasons, and the sonograms they produce help women better visualize their foetus. Research shows that women are less likely to obtain an abortion after seeing ultrasound images, particularly as the
Tougher vaccine rules move forward in California. [SEP] Rob Schneider // as lacking any factual basis. Schneider has passionately fought the passage of two California laws, California Assembly Bill 2109 and California Senate Bill 277, which both intended to make childhood vaccination exemptions harder to obtain. On September 28, 2012, Schneider and California State Assemblyman Tim Donnelly spoke at the "Medical Freedom Rally", where they urged California Governor Jerry Brown to veto Assembly Bill 2109, which would have made it more difficult for parents to utilize philosophical reasons for exemptions from mandatory childhood vaccinations. While the bill was not vetoed, Governor Brown added a signing message instructing the Department of Health
Tougher vaccine rules move forward in California. [SEP] California Senate Bill 277 // California Senate Bill 277 California Senate Bill 277 (SB277) was a California bill that removed personal belief exemptions to vaccination requirements for entry to private or public elementary or secondary schools in California, as well as day care centers. It was passed in the California State Senate in June 2015 and signed into law by Governor Jerry Brown on June 30, 2015. The bill, co-authored by California state Senators Richard Pan, and Ben Allen, was prompted by the 2014 Disneyland measles outbreak and low levels of vaccination in pockets of California, with some schools having vaccination rates below 60%. SB277
Tougher vaccine rules move forward in California. [SEP] California Senate Bill 277 // the legislature had leeway to require school immunization, citing the U.S Supreme Court cases Zucht v. King (1922) and Prince v. Massachusetts (1944). She also rejected the need of non-medical exemptions and said the bill did not violate the right to education. California Senate Bill 277 California Senate Bill 277 (SB277) was a California bill that removed personal belief exemptions to vaccination requirements for entry to private or public elementary or secondary schools in California, as well as day care centers. It was passed in the California State Senate in June 2015 and signed into law by Governor Jerry Brown
Tougher vaccine rules move forward in California. [SEP] Richard Pan // Senator Ben Allen introduced California Senate Bill 277 in 2015, which eliminated non-medical exemptions to vaccine requierments for California school children. After the bill passed and was signed into law by Governor Jerry Brown, opponents of the bill tried to force a recall election on Pan but failed to submit the required signatures. Pan authored laws to expand newborn screening for severe combined immunodeficiency syndrome (AB395 in 2011), adrenoleukodystrophy (AB1559 in 2014) and all conditions recommended by the federal DHHS Recommended Universal Screening Panel (SB1095 in 2016). Pan authored legislation to extend the California Children's Services Program managed care carve-out
Tougher vaccine rules move forward in California. [SEP] Tim Donnelly (politician) // aimed to encourage vaccination and improve vaccination rates in the state. (The legislation retained the ability of parents to reject vaccination for their child on the basis of "personal belief.") Brown signed the bill into law, although he added a signing statement indication that parents "whose religious beliefs preclude vaccination" should not be unduly burdened. In 2015, after outbreaks of whooping cough and measles the previous year, Governor Brown signed into law SB 277, a mandatory vaccination law that eliminated the "personal belief" exemption from school vaccination requirements, leaving a physician-granted medical exemption as the only exemption from vaccination requirements.
Tougher vaccine rules move forward in California. [SEP] Tim Donnelly (politician) // One day after Brown signed the bill into law, Donnelly—who by this point had left the state legislature and become a conservative talk radio host—filed paperwork to begin signature-gathering in an attempt to place a referendum on the November 2016 California ballot to reverse the legislation. Donnelly characterized the issue as government intrusion on parental rights, and said that concerned over what he claimed was "the inherent risks of an ever increasing schedule of vaccinations," although scientific evidence shows that vaccines are safe and effective. Donnelly's referendum failed to make the ballot, having collected well under the required number of
Tougher vaccine rules move forward in California. [SEP] Jim Carrey // "Green Our Vaccines" march in Washington, D.C., to advocate for the removal of toxic substances from children's vaccines, out of a belief that children had received "too many vaccines, too soon, many of which are toxic". The rally was criticized by David Gorski, an American surgical oncologist on "Science-Based Medicine" blog for being anti-vaccine, not "pro-safe vaccine" and by Steven Parker on WebMD website for being "irresponsible". On July 1, 2015, after the signing of a new vaccination law, Carrey called California Governor Jerry Brown a "corporate fascist" who was poisoning children by enacting the vaccination requirements. The law disallowed
Tougher vaccine rules move forward in California. [SEP] Rob Schneider // to add a religious exemption and to make sure the process is not overly burdensome to parents. In 2015, Schneider fought against California Senate Bill 277, which removed exemptions to mandatory vaccinations due to personal beliefs, even leaving a phone message to California state Assemblywoman and bill co-author Lorena Gonzalez saying that he would spend money against her in her next re-election. Gonzalez, in an interview with "The Washington Times", said that she found the message to be disturbing, but upon calling back, she said "he was actually much nicer to me, but let's be honest … that is 20
Tougher vaccine rules move forward in California. [SEP] Vaccination policy // and California) do not provide exemptions based on religious or philosophical beliefs. A few other countries also follow this practice. Compulsory vaccination greatly reduces infection rates for associated diseases. Beginning in the nineteenth century, these policies stirred resistance from a variety of groups, collectively called anti-vaccinationists, who objected on ethical, political, medical safety, religious, and other grounds. Common objections included government intervention in personal matters or that proposed vaccinations were not sufficiently safe. Many modern vaccination policies allow exemptions for people with compromised immune systems, allergies to vaccination components, or strongly held objections. In 1904 in the city of Rio
Tougher vaccine rules move forward in California. [SEP] California Medical Association // at well over $1 billion over four years. The CMA continues to advocate on behalf of physicians and patients to make sure that health plans are complying with the laws and regulations of the State of California. In 2015, the CMA co-sponsored California Senate Bill 277, authored by Senator Dr. Richard Pan, which removes the personal belief exemption from school vaccination requirements. The bill was signed into law by Governor Jerry Brown on June 30, 2015. The CMA was also a partner in the Save Lives California coalition, which passed California Proposition 56 (2016) to raise tobacco taxes by $2
Facebook post Says "there is no" COVID-19 virus. [SEP] Dinocampus coccinellae paralysis virus // genus. DcPV has been found in "D. coccinellae" from Canada, Japan, Poland and the Netherlands. DcPV's 10,138 nucleotide linear RNA has a single large open reading frame, predicted to encode a 3007 residue polyprotein with non-structural helicase, protease and RNA-dependent RNA polymerase functions in the C-terminal portion and four structural proteins (VP1–4) in the N-terminal portion. The 5′ non-translated region contains cloverleaf and hairpin structures similar to those present in picornaviruses and other picorna-like viruses.The virus particle is around 27 nm in diameter. DcPV has not been detected in "D. coccinellae" eggs. After hatching, the level of the virus genome
Facebook post Says "there is no" COVID-19 virus. [SEP] Cervidpoxvirus // Cervidpoxvirus Cervidpoxvirus is a genus of viruses in the family "Poxviridae" in the subfamily "Chordopoxvirinae". Deer serve as natural hosts. Currently only one species is placed in this genus: the type species Mule deerpox virus. Group: dsDNA Viruses in" Cervidpoxvirus "are enveloped, with brick-shaped geometries. Genomes are linear, around 154 kb in length. Viral replication is cytoplasmic. Entry into the host cell is achieved by attachment of the viral proteins to host glycosaminoglycans, which mediate endocytosis of the virus into the host cell. Fusion with the plasma membrane releases the core into the host cytoplasm. In the early phase, early
Facebook post Says "there is no" COVID-19 virus. [SEP] CamStudio // that software offered via the installer could be triggering the alert, but CamStudio and the installer are both clean." Comodo blocked "CamStudio_Setup_v2.7.2_r326_(build_19Oct2013).exe" from installing, stating that it had a "Application.Win32.InstallCore.BWAN@1" infection. Nick Smith suggested disabling Comodo. Later, "PC Utilities Pro – PC Optimizer Pro" was reportedly being installed and being run without people's permission. Systems were infected with the following: "PUP.Optional.Delta.A", "PUP.Optional.Spigot.A", "PUP.Optional.InstallCore.A", "Rogue.Multiple", "PUP.Optional.CrossRider.A". In 2013, Google-run website Virustotal declared that CamStudio contains malicious software, where most anti-virus programs detected Artemis Trojan in CamStudio installer file. At the beginning of 2015, CamStudio installation was still distributing a malicious software,
Facebook post Says "there is no" COVID-19 virus. [SEP] Computer virus // target Microsoft Windows, WinVir was discovered in April 1992, two years after the release of Windows 3.0. The virus did not contain any Windows API calls, instead relying on DOS interrupts. A few years later, in February 1996, Australian hackers from the virus-writing crew VLAD created the Bizatch virus (also known as "Boza" virus), which was the first known virus to target Windows 95. In late 1997 the encrypted, memory-resident stealth virus Win32.Cabanas was released—the first known virus that targeted Windows NT (it was also able to infect Windows 3.0 and Windows 9x hosts). Even home computers were affected by
Facebook post Says "there is no" COVID-19 virus. [SEP] CamStudio // complete rewrite of the project in the pre-alpha stages of development as of April 19, 2010. There have been ongoing reports about malicious code contained in some binaries of the software. In January 2014, the binary on the webpage was reported to be infected with the trojan, Artemis!0FEA2B12900D. This edit from Nick Smith, the "caretaker" of CamStudio, "to finance future development, CamStudio has chosen to use an ad-supported installer offering other free software during the installation process. Regardless of what AV software is reporting, CamStudio unequivocally is *not* infected with a trojan or any other malicious software. It is possible
Facebook post Says "there is no" COVID-19 virus. [SEP] Ping-Pong virus // the "MOV CS,AX" instruction, which only exists on '88 and '86 processors. For this reason, users of machines at risk were advised to save their work and reboot, since this is the only way to temporarily get rid of the virus. The original Ping Pong virus (Ping-Pong.A) only infects floppy disks. Later variants of this virus such as Ping-Pong.B and Ping-Pong.C also infect the hard disk boot sector as well. While the virus is active, one cannot replace the boot sector—it either prevents writing to it or it immediately re-infects it. Ping-Pong.A is extinct but the hard-disk variants can still
Facebook post Says "there is no" COVID-19 virus. [SEP] Violeta Violeta // take an undetermined period of time to pursue other projects. He made it clear that this was not the end, only a long break. On 7 September 2012 a mysterious video of Omen and a little girl (Violeta) in a forest appeared on YouTube (later revealed to be from the "Aldri vodka, Violeta" video). The only text that accompanied the video read "We're here to spread the Kaizervirus. You will get infected and there is no cure." The following day, a "Kaizervirus" website was found. Soon after the virus took shape; the band asked their fans to submit why they
Facebook post Says "there is no" COVID-19 virus. [SEP] Cervidpoxvirus // lysis, or can acquire a second double membrane from trans-Golgi and bud as external enveloped virion host receptors, which mediate endocytosis. Replication follows the DNA strand displacement model. DNA-templated transcription is the method of transcription. The virus exits the host cell by existing in occlusion bodies after cell death and remaining infectious until finding another host. Deer serve as the natural host. Cervidpoxvirus Cervidpoxvirus is a genus of viruses in the family "Poxviridae" in the subfamily "Chordopoxvirinae". Deer serve as natural hosts. Currently only one species is placed in this genus: the type species Mule deerpox virus. Group: dsDNA Viruses
Facebook post Says "there is no" COVID-19 virus. [SEP] Eliza (computer virus) // Eliza (computer virus) Eliza is a computer virus discovered in December 1991. It infects COM files including Command.com. It has been reported that it is defective, yet destroys the .EXE files it creates. The .COM files do not get deleted. The date of the file will not be altered by the infection to avoid detection, infected files increase in length by 1,193 or 1,194 bytes. Eliza is also found in later versions of Windows. One of the forms of Eliza attacks the MS-DOS operating system by reproducing itself into COM and .EXE files. However, the virus has a bug in
Facebook post Says "there is no" COVID-19 virus. [SEP] Lloviu virus // in tissue culture or living animals, but its genome has been determined in its entirety with exception of the 3' and 5' UTRs. Like all mononegaviruses, LLOV virions contain a non-infectious, linear nonsegmented, single-stranded RNA genome of negative polarity that most likely possesses inverse-complementary 3' and 5' termini, does not possess a 5' cap, is not polyadenylated, and is not covalently linked to a protein. The LLOV genome is probably approximately 19 kb long and contains seven genes in the order 3'-UTR-"NP"-"VP35"-"VP40"-"GP"-"VP30"-"VP24"-"L"-5'-UTR. In contrast to ebolaviruses and marburgviruses, which synthesize seven mRNAs to express the seven structural proteins, LLOV seems
Drug Policy Alliance Says Debbie Wasserman Schultz "voted repeatedly to send terminally ill patients to prison. [SEP] Debbie Wasserman Schultz // to amend the Constitution of Florida. She angered medical marijuana activists and major Democratic donors over this and her comparisons of medical marijuana dispensaries to "pill mills", which over-prescribe and over-dispense painkillers to patients with dubious symptoms. After Wasserman Schultz expressed interest in running for the United States Senate in the 2016 elections, medical marijuana activists vowed to thwart her ambitions. Attorney and donor John Morgan said that her position on medical marijuana "disqualifies her from the [Democratic Senate] nomination... Her position denies terminally ill and chronically ill people compassion." In response, in February 2015, Wasserman Schultz's staff emailed Morgan,
Drug Policy Alliance Says Debbie Wasserman Schultz "voted repeatedly to send terminally ill patients to prison. [SEP] Debbie Wasserman Schultz // Protection Act, whose passage in 2010 was a legislative response to the financial crisis of 2007–08 and the subsequent Great Recession. During the Terri Schiavo case, she was one of the strongest opponents of congressional intervention. She publicly accused President George W. Bush of hypocrisy for signing a 1999 bill as Governor of Texas that allows health care workers to remove life support for terminally ill patients if the patient or family is unable to pay the medical bills. During the debate Wasserman Schultz pointed out that a Texas law signed by then Gov. Bush allowed caregivers to withhold treatment
Drug Policy Alliance Says Debbie Wasserman Schultz "voted repeatedly to send terminally ill patients to prison. [SEP] Debbie Wasserman Schultz // "at the point that futility has been reached and there is no longer any hope of survival or of additional health care measures being used to sustain life. ... [this] seems to conflict with his position today." Cox News Service reported that "The Texas law was intended to control in cases in which medical teams and patients' representatives disagree on treatment. In the Schiavo case, the medical team and Schiavo's husband agreed that there was no hope of improvement in her condition, determined by lower courts to be a 'persistent vegetative state'." Wasserman Schultz also cited the case of .
Drug Policy Alliance Says Debbie Wasserman Schultz "voted repeatedly to send terminally ill patients to prison. [SEP] Debbie Wasserman Schultz // Safety Act and one creating a Children's Services Council for Broward County. She received an award from the Save The Manatee Club for her commitment in the 2002 legislative session to manatee protection as a member of the Florida State Senate. Wasserman Schultz is a member of the New Democrat Coalition, the Congressional Arts Caucus, the Afterschool Caucuses, and the United States Congressional International Conservation Caucus. She was appointed to the Democratic Steering and Policy Committee in her first term. During the 2006 elections, she raised over seventeen million dollars in campaign contributions for her Democratic colleagues (third-most after Nancy
Drug Policy Alliance Says Debbie Wasserman Schultz "voted repeatedly to send terminally ill patients to prison. [SEP] Debbie Wasserman Schultz // offering to change her position on medical marijuana if Morgan would stop criticizing her. Morgan declined her offer and released the emails to "Politico", calling her a "bully". Wasserman Schultz at first declined to comment, then denied that her office had even sent the emails. Morgan responded: "What Debbie leaves out in her pushback was the crystal clear message that her potential support of the new amendment [that has been proposed for the ballot in 2016] was predicated upon me withdrawing my comments to "Politico". I don't know how to view that as anything but an offer of a quid
Drug Policy Alliance Says Debbie Wasserman Schultz "voted repeatedly to send terminally ill patients to prison. [SEP] Debbie Wasserman Schultz // Wasserman Schultz was "booed off stage" the DNC announced she would not gavel open the convention. She was subsequently appointed honorary chair of the Clinton campaign's "50 state program". On October 24, 2018, a pipe bomb device sent to former U.S. Attorney General Holder, which had the wrong address, was instead delivered to the Florida office of U.S. Representative Wasserman Schultz, whose name and address was on the return labels of all of the packages. During this time, similar pipe bomb devices had been sent to various influential Democratic politicians. The packages containing the devices, as well as envelopes containing
Drug Policy Alliance Says Debbie Wasserman Schultz "voted repeatedly to send terminally ill patients to prison. [SEP] Debbie Wasserman Schultz // Wasserman Schultz voted on September 29, 2008, supporting the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, and on October 3, 2008, supporting the revised version of that act. During an April 2009 House Judiciary Committee hearing on the Hate Crimes Prevention Act of 2009, fellow Floridian Tom Rooney, a former active duty U.S. Army JAG Corps officer, introduced an amendment that would make attacks against military veterans a hate crime. Wasserman Schultz remarked on the amendment: Wasserman Schultz became a vocal advocate for the family of Daniel Wultz, constituents of her congressional district engaged in legal action against the Bank of
Drug Policy Alliance Says Debbie Wasserman Schultz "voted repeatedly to send terminally ill patients to prison. [SEP] Debbie Wasserman Schultz // While her predecessor and mentor Peter Deutsch was "among the most hawkish congressional Democrats on Middle East issues", Wasserman Schultz, who took over his seat for Florida's 20th district, "a heavily Jewish swath of Broward County", has taken a more centrist approach. During 2005 she spoke in approval of President George W. Bush's proposals to give financial aid to the Palestinian Authority in both the proposed supplemental and in the 2006 budgets. She said: We want to continue to focus on making sure that ... the policy coming from Washington continues to encourage and support and nurture the peace process.
Drug Policy Alliance Says Debbie Wasserman Schultz "voted repeatedly to send terminally ill patients to prison. [SEP] Debbie Wasserman Schultz // "30 Something" Working Group, which consists of congressional Democrats mostly under age 40. The group concentrates on issues affecting young people, including Social Security. She joined the bipartisan Congressional Cuba Democracy Caucus. According to the "Congress.org" 2008 Power Rankings, she was the 24th-most powerful member of the House and 22nd most powerful Democratic representative (also most powerful Florida representative). Wasserman Schultz is pro-choice on some issues, supports gun control legislation, and is a supporter of the LGBT community. She initiated the 2007 Virginia Graeme Baker Pool and Spa Safety Act. In 2011, Wasserman Schultz was one of the 23 co-sponsors
Drug Policy Alliance Says Debbie Wasserman Schultz "voted repeatedly to send terminally ill patients to prison. [SEP] Debbie Wasserman Schultz // pro quo." In 2018, Wasserman Schultz co-sponsored a bill to "strengthen school safety and security", which required a two-thirds vote for passage, given it was brought up under an expedited process. The House voted 407-10 to approve the bill, which would "provide $50 million a year for a new federal grant program to train students, teachers and law enforcement on how to spot and report signs of gun violence". Named STOP (Students, Teachers, and Officers Preventing) School Violence Act, it would "develop anonymous telephone and online systems where people could report threats of violence." At the same time, it would
French breast implant boss arrested. [SEP] Poly Implant Prothèse // a friend in the Six-Fours in the Var located in South of France and taken into custody. Investigators searched the house. A deputy chief executive was also arrested at his home. Philippe Courtois, a lawyer represents 1300 women in France. Laurent Gaudon, represents four women and say a surgeon should inform about complications from both the surgery and devices used. Nathalie Lozano, lawyer, represents more than 1400 women from Colombia, Argentina, United Kingdom and Venezuela. She claims TÜV Rheinland's gross negligence in the process of certifying the quality process. On 17 April 2013, the trial of 5 executives in begun
French breast implant boss arrested. [SEP] Poly Implant Prothèse // the silicone used. Many executives are expected to face charges of aggravated fraud in an ongoing court case in France, expected to be scheduled for October 2012, which carries the possibility of prison terms of up to five years. The death of a cancer victim who had such implants may result in more serious charges of involuntary manslaughter. Frédéric Van Roekeghem, general director for La Caisse Nationale d'Assurance Maladie (French state social insurance agency, CNAM), will go to court regarding the complaints of bad implants. A criminal charge will be made within a few days he said to TF1 on
French breast implant boss arrested. [SEP] Poly Implant Prothèse // in Marseille, France. Those charged are the company founder Mr Mas, who was booed in the court, his deputy Claude Couty, the quality director Hannelore Font, technical director Loic Gossart and products chief Thierry Brinon. They face up to five years in prison. The trial was expected to last until 17 May. On 10 December 2013, Jean-Claude Mas was sent to prison for four years, and was fined 75,000 euros (£63,000) by a court in Marseille, France. British Association of Aesthetic Plastic Surgeons (BAAPS) says that poor postmarketing surveillance is the root of the crisis, and proposes significantly more stringent
French breast implant boss arrested. [SEP] Poly Implant Prothèse // 25 December 2011. The decision has been made in consultation with minister of health, Xavier Bertrand. Mas has recently undergone difficult surgery regarding a vascular problem that prevents him from walking said his lawyer Haddad. Sources say a Marseilles court could soon announce fraud charges against four to six former PIP employees. A fraud case was filed against PIP on 30 December 2011 by France’s state-run health insurance fund (CNAM) officials in Marseille announced. Which is near the company’s laboratory at La Seyne-sur-Mer. On 26 January 2012 at just before 07:00 the founder Mas was arrested in the home of
French breast implant boss arrested. [SEP] Poly Implant Prothèse // Chinese markets". An investment of was planned to put the former PIP plant back into operation, aiming to manufacture 400 implants a day with about 20 workers. However, Nicolas Lucciardi said that the project had collapsed due to media coverage of the scandal, adding, "That's obvious". The lawyer Yves Haddad is representing Mas. Legal complaints have been filed by 2500 women in France and 250 women in Britain. Mas is wanted in Costa Rica for "life and health" offenses, a warrant issued by Interpol. By February 2011, TÜV Rheinland sued PIP, claiming it had been "thoroughly and continuously misled" regarding
French breast implant boss arrested. [SEP] Poly Implant Prothèse // and several cases of induced breast cancer. The scandal, which produced fears of a massive health disaster, prompted a full recall of the company's implants by the French health ministry in 2010, by which time the company was already defunct. PIP was founded in 1991 by the Frenchman Jean-Claude Mas, born in 1939, a former butcher and later medical sales representative for the Bristol Myers company for 15 years. Mas had previously teamed up with plastic surgeon Henri Arion, who had introduced breast implants to France in 1965. After Arion died in a plane crash, Mas went on alone and
French breast implant boss arrested. [SEP] Céline Tran // and, in September 2007, was fined €20,000, having been deemed responsible for various violations of the ban. In May 2006, she got breast implants. Her first film with her new breasts, "French ConneXion" of Marc Dorcel Productions, came out at the beginning of 2007. In the meantime, Tran also modelled for the cover of "Marquis" magazine, a leader in fetishism. She also continued working and touring as an exotic dancer in nightclubs of various countries. In July 2008, Céline Tran released "My Fucking Life", a French-language film made for Marc Dorcel Studios. The movie is partly a documentary on Tran's
French breast implant boss arrested. [SEP] Poly Implant Prothèse // being monitored." Investigators interviewed Mas on 18 and 19 November 2010 after the French health authority AFSSAPS discovered the PIP breast implants did not conform to regulations. They passed the case to a judge who ordered a police inquiry for "aggravated deception". The bad silicone has been used to make male chest, testicle and buttock implants as well. "Three people were specially trained to work with a machine that made silicon testicles'" said a former PIP worker. Most of the male chest, buttock and testicle implants were exported to Latin America. The French government recommended per December 23, 2011 that
French breast implant boss arrested. [SEP] Poly Implant Prothèse // is underway following the death of a woman from ALCL. The French government recommended on December 23, 2011 that 30,000 women in France seek removal of breast implants made of a suspect silicone gel by the worldwide exporting PIP firm. Medical problems arise when breast implants rupture and cause inflammation and irritation. Further, impure gel may also release toxic substances. Removing implants "carries risks in itself", says the French government. By the end of 2011, eight cases of breast tumours had been uncovered in women after removing the implants, yet, while of concern, according to the French government, there is
French breast implant boss arrested. [SEP] Poly Implant Prothèse // [regulators'] approval and in this regard there was a violation of regulations,". The company did not ask France's medical device safety regulators for approval of their in-house manufactured product, but expected it would have gotten approval if the company asked for it. Cancer has been found in 20 women with the allegedly faulty PIP breast implants but French health authorities (Agence française de sécurité sanitaire des produits de santé (AFSSAPS)) insisted there was still no proven link with the disease. AFSSAPS has as of 28 December, registered 15 cases of breast adenocarcinoma, the most frequent form of breast cancer, one
The Healthy Skeptic: Products make testosterone claims [SEP] The cream // human growth hormone and testosterone, Gary Sheffield, who admitted using the cream and the clear, albeit unknowingly. When questioned about the substance, athletes said that the two substances were identified only as "the cream" and "the clear". It was later determined that the Bay Area Laboratory Co-operative, which supplied THG, had provided it in conjunction with "the cream" in order to increase the overall steroid content of the body. It had been distributed to several athletes by trainer Greg Anderson. An affidavit from the United States Anti-Doping Agency (USADA) reveals that "the cream" was a composition of testosterone and epitestosterone
The Healthy Skeptic: Products make testosterone claims [SEP] David Handelsman // acted as ASADA's expert witness during the AFL Anti-Doping Tribunal. In 2013 Handelsman published the first multinational survey of temporal trends in testosterone prescribing in response to anecdotal evidence of increased use of testosterone. The survey showed that off-label testosterone prescribing had increased because clinical guidelines endorsed testosterone prescribing for age-related functional androgen deficiency. This raised concerns because " [b]y eliminating the fundamental distinction between pathological and functional androgen deficiency, these guidelines tacitly promote increased testosterone prescribing, bypassing the requirement for high-quality clinical evidence of safety and efficacy and creating dramatic increases in prescription of testosterone products." Continuing his research,
The Healthy Skeptic: Products make testosterone claims [SEP] Bodybuilding supplement // In 2015 a CBC investigative report found that protein spiking (the addition of amino acid filler to manipulate analysis) was not uncommon, however many of the companies involved challenged these claims. The US FDA reports 50,000 health problems a year due to dietary supplements and these often involve bodybuilding supplements. For example, the "natural" best-seller Craze, 2012's "New Supplement of the Year" by bodybuilding.com, widely sold in stores such as Walmart and Amazon, was found to contain N,alpha-Diethylphenylethylamine, a methamphetamine analog. Other products by Matt Cahill have contained dangerous substances causing blindness or liver damage, and experts say that Cahill
The Healthy Skeptic: Products make testosterone claims [SEP] Carlon Colker // relation to dietary supplements including ephedra-based products, amongst others. He was a defendant named in lawsuits filed in multiple U.S. states alleging that research he conducted on behalf of the ephedra supplement manufacturers Cytodyne Technologies and Metabolife was fraudulent; that he had altered test results, and that he had attempted to hide dangerous adverse reactions suffered by research subjects. In 2004, Colker appeared in radio commercials for V-Factor, a dietary supplement that claimed to enhance male sexual performance, which were the focus of a false advertising complaint against Vital Basics, Inc. by the U.S. Federal Trade Commission. In 2008, Colker
The Healthy Skeptic: Products make testosterone claims [SEP] David Handelsman // with colleagues at the ANZAC Research Centre, Handelsman carried out the Healthy Man Study. Through analysis of over 300 very healthy ageing men it was found that drops in testosterone is more related to poor diet, obesity or smoking than ageing and that the excitement about so-called manopause is “a re-emergence of the rejuvenation fantasies that recur whenever society can afford such indulgences as believing that ageing can be somehow avoided.” David Handelsman David Joshua Handelsman, (AO) is trained in Medicine and Endocrinology. His expertise is in testicular function and androgen physiology, pharmacology, and toxicology. His experience spans basic, clinical,
The Healthy Skeptic: Products make testosterone claims [SEP] Androgen prohormone // consequences of treatment with the unspecified hormone. This has led to the popularity of special forums on which consumers could share their experiences with the substances, yet the fake products could have radically different components, despite similar descriptions and names. Supplement manufacturers who have made a name for themselves and want to remain on the market are currently elaborating AAS based on natural substances (usually plant-derived). In Europe these products are called prohormones. Producers who still want to offer supplements supporting the hormonal balance can still employ the natural compounds. Known in the field of prohormones Patrick Arnold (the one
The Healthy Skeptic: Products make testosterone claims [SEP] Testosterone (medication) // safety of testosterone have been established for low testosterone levels due to aging. The FDA has required that testosterone pharmaceutical labels include warning information about the possibility of an increased risk of heart attacks and stroke. They have also required the label include concerns about abuse and dependence. Adverse effects of testosterone supplementation may include increased cardiovascular events (including strokes and heart attacks) and deaths based on three peer-reviewed studies involving men taking testosterone replacement. In addition, an increase of 30% in deaths and heart attacks in older men has been reported. Due to an increased incidence of adverse cardiovascular
The Healthy Skeptic: Products make testosterone claims [SEP] Testosterone (medication) // most important hormone involved in sexual desire, although data on the clinical use of estradiol to increase sexual desire in women is limited. There are no testosterone products approved for use in women in the United States and many other countries. There are approved testosterone products for women in Australia and some European countries. Testosterone implants are approved for use in postmenopausal women in the United Kingdom. Testosterone products for men can be used off-label in women in the United States. Alternatively, testosterone products for women are available from compounding pharmacies in the United States, although such products are unregulated
The Healthy Skeptic: Products make testosterone claims [SEP] Testosterone // action of testosterone received a brief boost in 1889, when the Harvard professor Charles-Édouard Brown-Séquard (1817–1894), then in Paris, self-injected subcutaneously a "rejuvenating elixir" consisting of an extract of dog and guinea pig testicle. He reported in "The Lancet" that his vigor and feeling of well-being were markedly restored but the effects were transient, and Brown-Séquard's hopes for the compound were dashed. Suffering the ridicule of his colleagues, he abandoned his work on the mechanisms and effects of androgens in human beings. In 1927, the University of Chicago's Professor of Physiologic Chemistry, Fred C. Koch, established easy access to a
The Healthy Skeptic: Products make testosterone claims [SEP] Bodybuilding supplement // Administration (FDA) before distributing product. Since that time manufacturers did not have to provide FDA with the evidence to substantiate safety or effectiveness unless a new dietary ingredient was added. It is widely believed that the 1994 DSHEA further consolidated the position of the supplement industry and lead to additional product sales. While many of the claims are based on scientifically based physiological or biochemical processes, their use in bodybuilding parlance is often heavily colored by bodybuilding lore and industry marketing and as such may deviate considerably from traditional scientific usages of the terms. In addition, ingredients listed have been
Oregon 2nd-grader diagnosed with meningococcal meningitis. [SEP] Meningococcal disease // who wishes to reduce their risk of meningococcal disease may receive meningitis A,C,Y and W-135 vaccines and those older than 55 years of age. Under certain circumstances if unvaccinated health-care personnel cannot get vaccinated and who have intensive contact with oropharyngeal secretions of infected patients and who do not use proper precautions should receive anti-infective prophylaxis against meningococcal infection (i.e., 2-day regimen of oral rifampicin or a single dose of IM ceftriaxone or a single dose of oral ciprofloxacin). Because the risk of meningococcal disease is increased among USA's military recruits, all military recruits routinely receive primary immunization against the
Oregon 2nd-grader diagnosed with meningococcal meningitis. [SEP] NmVac4-A/C/Y/W-135 // countries. Among those who survive the meningococcal disease, 10–20% experience neurological sequelae. JN-International Medical Corporation in Ivory Coast has provided over 5 million doses of serotypes A & C vaccine on long term credit to the Ministry of Health of Niger, Burkina Faso, Benin and Ivory Coast during meningitis disease outbreak seasons since the year 2006. Children 2–10 years of age who are at high risk for meningococcal disease such as certain chronic medical conditions and travel to or reside in countries with hyperendemic or epidemic meningococcal disease should receive primary immunization. Although safety and efficacy of the vaccine have
Oregon 2nd-grader diagnosed with meningococcal meningitis. [SEP] Aseptic meningitis // meningeal inflammation can be noticed along with the possibility of hepatic necrosis and myocarditis. In serious cases, a multiple organ failure can also signal aseptic meningitis and oftentimes, in babies, seizures and focal neurological deficits can be early symptoms of aseptic meningitis. In fact, in newborns, the mortality rate is 70%. The next set of age group, like children, have similar but varying symptoms of sore throat, rashes, and diarrhea. In adults, symptoms and the harshness of them tend to be less in duration. Additionally, the probability of developing aseptic meningitis increases when patients have a case of mumps or
Oregon 2nd-grader diagnosed with meningococcal meningitis. [SEP] NmVac4-A/C/Y/W-135 // is recommended, Any individual 11–55 years of age who wishes to reduce their risk of meningococcal disease may receive NMVAC-4 and those older than 55 years of age. Under certain circumstances if unvaccinated health-care personnel cannot get vaccinated and who have intensive contact with oropharyngeal secretions of infected patients and who do not use proper precautions should receive anti-infective prophylaxis against meningococcal infection (i.e., 2-day regimen of oral rifampin or a single dose of IM ceftriaxone or a single dose of oral ciprofloxacin). Because the risk of meningococcal disease is increased among military recruits, all military recruits routinely receive primary
Oregon 2nd-grader diagnosed with meningococcal meningitis. [SEP] Meningococcal disease // primary immunization. Although safety and efficacy of the vaccine have not been established in children younger than 2 years of age and under outbreak control, the unconjugated vaccine can be considered. Primary immunization against meningococcal disease with meningitis A, C, Y and W-135 vaccines is recommended for all young adolescents at 11–12 years of age and all unvaccinated older adolescents at 15 years of age. Although conjugate vaccines are the preferred meningococcal vaccine in adolescents 11 years of age or older, polysaccharide vaccines are an acceptable alternative if the conjugated vaccine is unavailable. Primary immunization with meningitis A, C, Y
Oregon 2nd-grader diagnosed with meningococcal meningitis. [SEP] Childhood immunizations in the United States // someone who has the disease are at increased risk of infection. In the case of infection, these people are contacted to receive prophylaxis which is when a person is treated with antibiotics to prevent infection from the disease. Symptoms appear quickly over the course of several days and develop within 3–7 days after exposure. The symptoms of meningococcal disease are In newborns and infants classic symptoms may be absent or difficult to notice. They may appear slow or inactive, irritable, vomiting or feeding poorly. Meningococcal Septicemis (aka. Meningococcemia) is a bloodstream infection caused by the Neisseria meningitidis bacteria. This is
Oregon 2nd-grader diagnosed with meningococcal meningitis. [SEP] Meningococcal disease // puncture, as delay in treatment worsens the prognosis. Symptoms of meningococcemia are, at least initially, similar to those of influenza. Typically, the first symptoms include fever, nausea, myalgia, headache, arthralgia, chills, diarrhea, stiff neck, and malaise. Later symptoms include septic shock, purpura, hypotension, cyanosis, petechiae, seizures, anxiety, and multiple organ dysfunction syndrome. Acute respiratory distress syndrome and altered mental status may also occur. The petichial rash appear with the 'star-like' shape. Meningococcal sepsis has a greater mortality rate than meningococcal meningitis, but the risk of neurologic sequelae is much lower. The most important form of prevention is a vaccine against
Oregon 2nd-grader diagnosed with meningococcal meningitis. [SEP] Meningitis // early stage of the illness. These may require specific treatment, and sometimes indicate severe illness or worse prognosis. The infection may trigger sepsis, a systemic inflammatory response syndrome of falling blood pressure, fast heart rate, high or abnormally low temperature, and rapid breathing. Very low blood pressure may occur at an early stage, especially but not exclusively in meningococcal meningitis; this may lead to insufficient blood supply to other organs. Disseminated intravascular coagulation, the excessive activation of blood clotting, may obstruct blood flow to organs and paradoxically increase the bleeding risk. Gangrene of limbs can occur in meningococcal disease. Severe
Oregon 2nd-grader diagnosed with meningococcal meningitis. [SEP] Waterhouse–Friderichsen syndrome // the most severe form of meningococcal sepsis. The onset of the illness is nonspecific with fever, rigors, vomiting, and headache. Soon a rash appears; first macular, not much different from the rose spots of typhoid, and rapidly becoming petechial and purpuric with a dusky gray color. Low blood pressure (hypotension) develops and rapidly leads to septic shock. The cyanosis of extremities can be extreme and the patient is very prostrated or comatose. In this form of meningococcal disease, meningitis generally does not occur. Low levels of blood glucose and sodium, high levels of potassium in the blood, and the ACTH
Oregon 2nd-grader diagnosed with meningococcal meningitis. [SEP] Meningococcal disease // close contacts of individuals with invasive disease. Meningitis A,C,Y and W-135 vaccines rarely may be used as an adjunct to chemoprophylaxis,1 but only in situations where there is an ongoing risk of exposure (e.g., when cluster cases or outbreaks occur) and when a serogroup contained in the vaccine is involved. It is important that clinicians promptly report all cases of suspected or confirmed meningococcal disease to local public health authorities and that the serogroup of the meningococcal strain involved be identified. The effectiveness of mass vaccination programs depends on early and accurate recognition of outbreaks. When a suspected outbreak of
Blood Test May Predict Rheumatoid Arthritis [SEP] Rheumatoid arthritis // in assessing the degree of synovial inflammation as they can show vascular signals of active synovitis. This is important, since in the early stages of RA, the synovium is primarily affected, and synovitis seems to be the best predictive marker of future joint damage. When RA is clinically suspected, a physician may test for rheumatoid factor (RF) and anti-citrullinated protein antibodies (ACPAs measured as anti-CCP antibodies). It is positive in 75-85%, but a negative RF or CCP antibody does not rule out RA, rather, the arthritis is called "seronegative", which is in about 15-25% of people with RA. During the
Blood Test May Predict Rheumatoid Arthritis [SEP] Juvenile idiopathic arthritis // causes. No single test can confirm the diagnosis, and most physicians use a combination of blood tests, X-rays, and clinical presentation to make an initial diagnosis of JIA. The blood tests measure antibodies and the rheumatoid factor. Unfortunately, the rheumatoid factor is not present in all children with JIA. Moreover, in some cases, the blood work is somewhat normal. X-rays are obtained to ensure that the joint pain is not from a fracture, cancer, infection, or congenital abnormality. In most cases, fluid from the joint is aspirated and analyzed. This test often helps in making a diagnosis of JIA by
Blood Test May Predict Rheumatoid Arthritis [SEP] Rheumatoid factor // between rheumatoid factor and more persistently active synovitis, more joint damage, greater eventual disability and arthritis. Other than in rheumatoid arthritis, rheumatoid factor may also be elevated in: The test was first described by Norwegian Dr Erik Waaler in 1940 and redescribed by Dr Harry M. Rose and colleagues in 1948. Redescription is said to be due to the uncertainties due to World War II. It is still referred to as the Waaler-Rose test. Rheumatoid factor Rheumatoid factor (RF) is the autoantibody that was first found in rheumatoid arthritis. It is defined as an antibody against the Fc portion of
Blood Test May Predict Rheumatoid Arthritis [SEP] Rheumatoid arthritis // started. The by far most common clinical test for ACPAs is the anti-cyclic citrullinated peptide (anti CCP) ELISA. In 2008 a serological point-of-care test for the early detection of RA combined the detection of RF and anti-MCV with a sensitivity of 72% and specificity of 99.7%. Other blood tests are usually done to differentiate from other causes of arthritis, like the erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR), C-reactive protein, full blood count, kidney function, liver enzymes and other immunological tests (e.g., antinuclear antibody/ANA) are all performed at this stage. Elevated ferritin levels can reveal hemochromatosis, a mimic of RA, or be a
Blood Test May Predict Rheumatoid Arthritis [SEP] Rheumatoid arthritis // first year of illness, rheumatoid factor is more likely to be negative with some individuals becoming seropositive over time. RF is a non-specific antibody and seen in about 10% of healthy people, in many other chronic infections like hepatitis C, and chronic autoimmune diseases such as Sjögren's syndrome and systemic lupus erythematosus. Therefore, the test is not specific for RA. Hence, new serological tests check for anti-citrullinated protein antibodies ACPAs . These tests are again positive in 61-75% of all RA cases, but with a specificity of around 95%. As with RF, ACPAs are many times present before symptoms have
Blood Test May Predict Rheumatoid Arthritis [SEP] Rheumatoid factor // immunoglobulins, i.e. IgA, IgG, IgM, IgE, IgD. RF is often evaluated in patients suspected of having any form of arthritis even though positive results can be due to other causes, and negative results do not rule out disease. But, in combination with signs and symptoms, it can play a role in both diagnosis and disease prognosis. It is part of the usual disease criteria of rheumatoid arthritis. The presence of rheumatoid factor in serum can also indicate the occurrence of suspected autoimmune activity unrelated to rheumatoid arthritis, such as that associated with tissue or organ rejection. In such instances, RF
Blood Test May Predict Rheumatoid Arthritis [SEP] Anti–citrullinated protein antibody // performance of the test. Noteworthy are the findings of a recently published study that highly valuates anti-MCV test systems for diagnosing rheumatoid arthritis in anti-CCP-negative patients. However, data from all around the world vary substantially. Anti-CCP is also very useful in the early diagnosis of rheumatoid arthritis in high-risk groups, such as relatives of RA patients, although Silman and co-workers found that the concordance rate of developing RA was 15.4% among identical (monozygotic) twins and was 3.6% among fraternal (dizygotic) twins. Given that ACPA are more specific than rheumatoid factor, they are used to distinguish various causes of arthritis. Novel
Blood Test May Predict Rheumatoid Arthritis [SEP] Rheumatoid factor // may serve as one of several serological markers for autoimmunity. The sensitivity of RF for established rheumatoid arthritis is only 60-70% with a specificity of 78%. High levels of rheumatoid factor (in general, above 20 IU/mL, 1:40, or over the 95th percentile; there is some variation among labs) occur in rheumatoid arthritis (present in 80%) and Sjögren's syndrome (present in 70%). The higher the level of RF the greater the probability of destructive articular disease. It is also found in Epstein–Barr virus or Parvovirus infection and in 5 to 10% of healthy persons, especially the elderly. There is an association
Blood Test May Predict Rheumatoid Arthritis [SEP] Sjögren syndrome // tests can be done to determine if a patient has high levels of antibodies that are indicative of the condition, such as antinuclear antibody (ANA) and rheumatoid factor (because SS frequently occurs secondary to rheumatoid arthritis), which are associated with autoimmune diseases. Typical SS ANA patterns are SSA/Ro and SSB/La, of which Anti-SSB/La is far more specific; Anti-SSA/Ro is associated with numerous other autoimmune conditions, but are often present in SS. However, Anti-SSA and Anti-SSB tests are frequently not positive in SS. The rose bengal test uses a stain that measures state and function of the lacrimal glands. This test
Blood Test May Predict Rheumatoid Arthritis [SEP] Biomarker (medicine) // laboratory parameter that the doctor can use to help make decisions in making a diagnosis and selecting a course of treatment. For example, the detection of certain autoantibodies in patient blood is a reliable biomarker for autoimmune disease, and the detection of rheumatoid factors has been an important diagnostic marker for rheumatoid arthritis (RA) for over 50 years. For the diagnosis of this autoimmune disease the antibodies against the bodies own citrullinated proteins are of particular value. These ACPAs, (ACPA stands for "A"nti-"c"itrullinated "p"rotein/peptide "a"ntibody) can be detected in the blood before the first symptoms of RA appear. They are
'Female Viagra' gets mixed reviews [SEP] Orgasm Inc. // Viagra for women — and offers a humorous but sobering look inside the cash-fueled pharmaceutical industry". Newsweek said "[Orgasm Inc.] is a desperately needed antidote to all the hype generated by pharmaceutical companies pursuing their holy grail: a female Viagra." "The Times" called it "an extraordinary, revelatory documentary about female desire and the pharmaceutical industry". In addition, articles about the movie and quotes from director Liz Canner have appeared internationally in hundreds of articles and blogs and dozens of TV shows and radio programs such as ABC News, Vogue, Newsweek, the Times of London, the Wall Street Journal, the BBC
'Female Viagra' gets mixed reviews [SEP] OneTaste // to acknowledge and articulate it. In 2011, Daedone published "Slow Sex: The Art and Craft of the Female Orgasm", described as elevating "the female orgasm to a level of religious and spiritual practice." A review in "Salon.com" explores whether these ideas and practices will appeal only to "alternative circles" or to a larger mainstream audience. "Salon" notes the demand for "female Viagra," with an estimated market of $2 billion US, and numerous studies that document women's dissatisfaction with sex and low frequency of orgasm. The review concludes "Daedone's philosophy is a refreshing counterpoint to the porny mainstream, but it's certainly
'Female Viagra' gets mixed reviews [SEP] Female sexual arousal disorder // is that "the branding of Viagra has succeeded so thoroughly in rationalizing the idea of sexual correction and enhancement through pills that it seems inevitable and "only fair" that such a product be made available for women," giving a dangerous appeal to "nonapproved drugs though off-label prescribing". Natural variation could be overlooked because there are no specific duration or severity criteria for diagnosis. Therefore, the duration criterion of symptoms lasting at least 6 months and the severity criterion of symptoms during 75% or more of sexual encounters have been proposed. Diagnosis based on insufficient vaginal lubrication/swelling is problematic because women’s
'Female Viagra' gets mixed reviews [SEP] Bad Pharma // an annual £165 million extra. He addresses the issue of medicalization of certain conditions (or, as he argues, of personhood), whereby pharmaceutical companies "widen the boundaries of diagnosis" before offering solutions. Female sexual dysfunction was highlighted in 1999 by a study published in the "Journal of the American Medical Association", which alleged that 43 percent of women were suffering from it. After the article appeared, the "New York Times" wrote that two of its three authors had worked as consultants for Pfizer, which at the time was preparing to launch UK-414,495, known as female Viagra. The journal's editor said that
'Female Viagra' gets mixed reviews [SEP] Female sexual arousal disorder // as an arousal problem to a desire problem. In her article, "The 'Pinking' of Viagra Culture", she states that the change from female sexual arousal disorder to hypoactive sexual desire disorder is indicative of "disease mongering" tactics by the drug industry through an effort to match up a drug to some subcomponent of the DSM classification. Additionally, Leonore Tiefer of NYU School of Medicine voiced concerns that the success of Viagra, in combination with feminist rhetoric, were being used as a means of fast-tracking public acceptance of pharmaceutical treatment of female sexual arousal disorder. The justification behind this, she says,
'Female Viagra' gets mixed reviews [SEP] Orgasm Inc. // Orgasm Inc. Orgasm Inc. (2009) is the first feature documentary by award-winning director Liz Canner. It premiered at the Hot Docs Documentary Film Festival. In the documentary, filmmaker Liz Canner takes a job editing erotic movies for a drug trial for a pharmaceutical company called Vivus. Her employer is developing what they hope will be the first Viagra drug for women that wins FDA approval to treat a new disease: female sexual dysfunction (FSD). Many women suffer from this, as males suffers erectile dysfunctions. However, women's issues with this sexual matter has been seen to be not as important as
'Female Viagra' gets mixed reviews [SEP] Lasse Hessel // woman's pelvis during sexual intercourse. The book demonstrates how the penis can stimulate various sensitive areas of the vagina, leading to a more satisfying sexlife. It was published in several languages and was followed by a whole series of health books on sexually related subjects such as safe sex, sensual massage, etc. Another invention, the Femi-X pill, is a sort of Viagra for women suffering from sexual dysfunction. It was developed in cooperation with King's College and launched worldwide in 2004. Based on a mixture of herbal ingredients, the Femi-X pill allegedly enhances the female libido by stimulating the blood
'Female Viagra' gets mixed reviews [SEP] Combined oral contraceptive pill // use in cases of gynecological problems, but not for birth control. Two main objections raised by the association were safety concerns over long-term use of the pill, and concerns that pill use would lead to decreased use of condoms and thereby potentially increase sexually transmitted infection (STI) rates. However, when the Ministry of Health and Welfare approved Viagra's use in Japan after only six months of the application's submission, while still claiming that the pill required more data before approval, women's groups cried foul. The pill was subsequently approved for use in June 1999. However, the pill has not become
'Female Viagra' gets mixed reviews [SEP] Female sexual arousal disorder // any respondent answered yes at any time, they were classified as having FSD. Here are the questions asked that respondents could only choose a response of Yes or No: Furthermore, the author Edward O. Laumann turned out to have financial ties to Pfizer, creator of Viagra. Another criticism, for example, is that "the meaningful benefits of experimental drugs for women's sexual difficulties are questionable, and the financial conflicts of interest of experts who endorse the notion of a highly prevalent medical condition are extensive." Professor of bioethics and sociology Jennifer R. Fishman argues that the categorization of female sexual dysfunction
'Female Viagra' gets mixed reviews [SEP] Sildenafil // Sildenafil Sildenafil, sold as the brand name Viagra among others, is a medication used to treat erectile dysfunction and pulmonary arterial hypertension. Its is unclear if it is effective for treating sexual dysfunction in women. It is taken by mouth or injection into a vein. Onset is typically within 20 minutes and lasts for about 2 hours. Common side effects include headaches, heartburn, and flushed skin. Caution is advised in those with cardiovascular disease. Rare but serious side effects include a prolonged erection that can lead to damage to the penis, vision problems, and hearing loss. Sildenafil should not be
U.S. coronavirus supply spree sparks outrage among allies. [SEP] Coronavirus // 2013, a case of contamination from human to human in France was confirmed by the French Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. In addition, cases of person-to-person transmission have been reported by the Ministry of Health in Tunisia. Two confirmed cases seem to have caught the disease from their late father, who became ill after a visit to Qatar and Saudi Arabia. By Oct. 30 2013, there were 124 cases and 52 deaths in Saudi Arabia. After the Dutch Erasmus Medical Centre sequenced the virus, the virus was given a new name, Human Corona Virus-Erasmus Medical Centre (HCoV-EMC). The final
U.S. coronavirus supply spree sparks outrage among allies. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // said virus. The Evangelista Medical Hospital in San Pedro, Laguna, the facility where the patient was first admitted, was temporarily closed by DOH for fourteen days. On 17 February 2015, all those who had exposure or had contact with the said nurse were tested negative of the said virus. On 6 March 2015, The Department of Foreign Affairs confirmed three Filipino female healthcare workers in Saudi Arabia who were infected with MERS-CoV. On 6 July 2015, DOH confirmed the second detected case of MERS-CoV in the country. The patient who had contracted the virus was from the Middle East and
U.S. coronavirus supply spree sparks outrage among allies. [SEP] Coronavirus // in a small number of nucleotides. In 2003, following the outbreak of Severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) which had begun the prior year in Asia, and secondary cases elsewhere in the world, the World Health Organization (WHO) issued a press release stating that a novel coronavirus identified by a number of laboratories was the causative agent for SARS. The virus was officially named the SARS coronavirus (SARS-CoV). The epidemic resulted in over 8,000 infections, about 10% of which resulted in death. X-ray crystallography studies performed at the Advanced Light Source of Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory have begun to give hope
U.S. coronavirus supply spree sparks outrage among allies. [SEP] Middle East respiratory syndrome // care worker who had been in Saudi Arabia a week earlier, and was reported to be in good condition. A second patient who also traveled from Saudi Arabia was reported in Orlando, Florida on 12 May 2014. On 14 May 2014, officials in the Netherlands reported the first case has appeared. On Saturday, 17 May 2014, a man from Illinois who was a business associate of the first U.S. case (he had met and shook hands with the Indiana health care worker) tested positive for the MERS coronavirus, but has not, as of yet, displayed symptoms (others are probably also,
U.S. coronavirus supply spree sparks outrage among allies. [SEP] Coronavirus // of a vaccine against the disease "since [the spike protein] appears to be recognized by the immune system of the host." Following the high-profile publicity of SARS outbreaks, there has been a renewed interest in coronaviruses among virologists. For many years, scientists knew about only two human coronaviruses (HCoV-229E and HCoV-OC43). The discovery of SARS-CoV added a third human coronavirus. By the end of 2004, three independent research labs reported the discovery of a fourth human coronavirus. It has been named NL63, NL, and the New Haven coronavirus by different research groups. The three labs are still arguing over which
U.S. coronavirus supply spree sparks outrage among allies. [SEP] Middle East respiratory syndrome // pneumonia and acute renal failure. After routine diagnostics failed to identify the causative agent, Zaki contacted Ron Fouchier, a leading virologist at the Erasmus Medical Center (EMC) in Rotterdam, the Netherlands, for advice. Fouchier sequenced the virus from a sample sent by Zaki. Fouchier used a broad-spectrum "pan-coronavirus" real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) method to test for distinguishing features of a number of known coronaviruses (such as OC43, 229R, NL63, and SARS-CoV), as well as for RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp), a gene conserved in all coronaviruses known to infect humans. While the screens for known coronaviruses were all negative, the
U.S. coronavirus supply spree sparks outrage among allies. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // government, in November 2013, reported a woman in Spain, who had recently traveled to Saudi Arabia for the Islamic pilgrimage, contracted the disease. On 14 April 2014, one Filipino paramedic died in the United Arab Emirates, with six other reported to be infected with the virus. On 17 April, the UAE Ministry of Health reported another fatality and four additional cases, including the Filipino medical worker who travelled to the Philippines on 16 April. On 21 April 2014, the Health Ministry of UAE reported an additional 9 cases. In April 2012, six hospital workers were diagnosed with acute respiratory failure
U.S. coronavirus supply spree sparks outrage among allies. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // coronavirus researcher at the Erasmus Medical Center (EMC) in Rotterdam, The Netherlands. The second laboratory-proven case was in London, confirmed by the UK Health Protection Agency (HPA). The HPA named the virus the London1_novel CoV 2012. On 8 November 2012, in an article published in the New England Journal of Medicine, Dr. Zaki and co-authors from the Erasmus Medical Center published more details, including a scientific name, Human Coronavirus-Erasmus Medical Center (HCoV-EMC), which was then used in scientific literature. In the article, they noted four respiratory human coronaviruses (HCoV) known to be endemic: 229E, OC43, NL63, and HKU1. In May
U.S. coronavirus supply spree sparks outrage among allies. [SEP] SARS coronavirus // SARS coronavirus The SARS coronavirus, sometimes shortened to SARS-CoV, is the virus that causes severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS). On April 16, 2003, following the outbreak of SARS in Asia and secondary cases elsewhere in the world, the World Health Organization (WHO) issued a press release stating that the coronavirus identified by a number of laboratories was the official cause of SARS. Samples of the virus are being held in laboratories in New York City, San Francisco, Manila, Hong Kong, and Toronto. On April 12, 2003, scientists working at the Michael Smith Genome Sciences Centre in Vancouver, British Columbia finished
U.S. coronavirus supply spree sparks outrage among allies. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // MERS had infected at least 60 people with cases reported in Jordan, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates (UAE), Tunisia, Germany, the United Kingdom (UK), France and Italy, with a death toll of 38. Saudi officials expressed great concern that millions of Muslims from around the world would potentially be exposed to the virus during the autumn Hajj, or pilgrimage to Mecca. In May 2014, the WHO said it was monitoring the situation as global cases of MERS appeared to be on the rise, but said the situation did not yet constitute a health emergency. On 3 June 2014,
Facebook post Says businesses will give you free baby formula during the coronavirus outbreak. [SEP] Infant formula // formula, and giving free samples to women able to breastfeed – this latter practice is particularly criticized because it can interfere with lactation, creating dependence on formula. In many countries free samples of infant formula have been provided to hospitals for decades; infant formula is often the only product routinely provided free of charge to hospitals. The Baby Friendly Hospital Initiative aims to reduce and eliminate this controversial practice. Infant formula is one of the top three consumer commodities in the Philippines, and among the most imported products. Annual sales amount to some US$469 million annually. US$88 million is spent
Facebook post Says businesses will give you free baby formula during the coronavirus outbreak. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // of unknown origin. Of the six, two died. All the cases were reported to the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC). After the September identification of a novel CoV strain, a retroactive analysis of the hospital workers was performed. Epidemiologists discovered the Jordan cases. Using stored laboratory samples for all six, it was found that samples from the two patients who had died tested positive for nCoV. On 24 April 2014, a 25-year-old male was found positive for the coronavirus. He had history of exposure to camels and had consumed camel milk. The Ministry of Health and Medical
Facebook post Says businesses will give you free baby formula during the coronavirus outbreak. [SEP] Danone // had received formula samples. Of these, 60% were provided by company representatives, and over one-third by healthcare workers. The mothers reported that samples were provided by (in order of frequency): Dumex (Danone, and since May 2016 Yashili), Enfamil (Mead Johnson), Wyeth, Abbott, Nestlé, Friso, Ausnutria and Bei-yin-mei. The overall 2013 Save the Children report which includes this 2012 survey states, "If new mothers are given free samples to feed to their babies it can start a vicious circle that undermines their own ability to breastfeed. An infant satiated with formula may demand less breast milk, so the mother produces less,
Facebook post Says businesses will give you free baby formula during the coronavirus outbreak. [SEP] HIV/AIDS in China // counseling, the option of abortion or antiretroviral therapy and, where available, caesarean delivery, to reduce the likelihood of mother-to-child transmission. Free formula milk for 12 months was provided for infants. On the basis of this pilot programme, national guidelines were developed to guide the prevention of mother-to-child transmission in the country. The provision of such services has been ratified by the AIDS Regulations. Services are being scaled up to cover at least 85% of infected pregnant women by 2007, and to reach at least 90% by 2010. Scale-up is being prioritized to the most heavily affected areas first. As of
Facebook post Says businesses will give you free baby formula during the coronavirus outbreak. [SEP] Feline coronavirus // flu. Extensive data also shows that processes using sialic acid are directly involved in the interaction with the receptor's lectins. It has also been demonstrated that swine enteric coronavirus (group 1) fusion to the enterocyte is accomplished via binding to the APN in the presence of the sialic acid. Felin coronavirus infections are therefore sialic acid dependant. Kittens born from mothers carrying FECV are protected from infection during their first weeks of life until weaned by maternal antibodies. It is recommended that the kittens are weaned early and segregated from their mother before they infect each other (at about 5
Facebook post Says businesses will give you free baby formula during the coronavirus outbreak. [SEP] Breastfeeding promotion // experts argue that these commercial discharge packs decrease the likelihood that a woman will breastfeed and, if she does breastfeed, the length of time she will do so. Studies have found that marketing of infant formula in hospitals makes it likelier that a woman will breastfeed for a shorter amount of time due to the perceived convenience of bottle-feeding. Formula companies often offer these discharge packs, as well as a general supply of formula, to hospitals at no cost, which can place some facilities at an economic disadvantage if they choose to give up these benefits. However, not accepting free
Facebook post Says businesses will give you free baby formula during the coronavirus outbreak. [SEP] Anna Coutsoudis // published in "The Lancet" called on the South African government to stop providing free formula milk to HIV-infected mothers, causing outrage from HIV activists. In particular, Cousoudis criticized the commercial promotion of formula milk for young babies in South Africa, especially as it countered recommendations from the World Health Organization. In September 2016, Coutsoudis participated in the International Atomic Energy Agency's 60th conference in Vienna where she was a key speaker at a well-attended event on "Nuclear Techniques to Assess Breastfeeding Practices". Coutsoudis has served on various committees of the World Health Organizaion including the Steering Committee of the Child
Facebook post Says businesses will give you free baby formula during the coronavirus outbreak. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // decided to perform a test on him, and fortunately, as well for the comfort of everybody, the findings of our Research Institute for Tropical Medicine, he tested negative." In the said press release, DOH also announced that they are tracking all other 414 passengers of Etihad Airways Flight 424 (the flight the OFW took from Abu Dhabi, UAE to Manila) in order to be tested. On 11 February 2015, a 32-year-old Filipino nurse from Saudi Arabia, who was also 1 month pregnant, was the country's first MERS-CoV case, DOH confirmed after the test turned out to be positive of the
Facebook post Says businesses will give you free baby formula during the coronavirus outbreak. [SEP] Bovine coronavirus // nasal washes – which identifies the viral antigen. The haemagglutination inhibition test can be used to establish the strain of coronavirus. Animals should be treated symptomatically. The disease can be controlled by vaccinating the dam with a live vaccine (ATCvet code QI02) whilst she is pregnant as this provides antibodies to the virus in the colostrum. Additional management factors such as ensuring adequate colostrum intake in newborn calves, using appropriate hygiene methods and ventilation of housing reduce disease incidence. Bovine coronavirus Bovine coronavirus (BCV) is as a member of the Coronaviridae family which are enveloped, single-stranded, positive-sense RNA viruses with
Facebook post Says businesses will give you free baby formula during the coronavirus outbreak. [SEP] Feline coronavirus // to 6 weeks). Kittens with no outside contamination and that are deprived of contact with their mother during their first 2 months of life (an important immunological period) may be protected. It is widely accepted that passive protection is passed on to kittens by immunoglobulins nursery (antibodies) provided by colostrum and the mother's milk. However, several questions arise: Other molecules from colostrum and cat milk, could also bear this coverage: Lactoferrin, Lactoperoxidase, Lysozyme, Rich Proline polypeptide—PRP and alpha-lactalbumine. Lactoferrin has many properties that make it a very good candidate for this anti-coronavirus activity: The structures of the polypeptide chain and
The IRS is going to be "in charge" of "a huge national database" on health care that will include Americans’ "personal, intimate, most close-to-the-vest-secrets. [SEP] Americans for Tax Reform // IRS has not been safeguarding federal tax information properly. The tax information is gathered by the IRS from the tax returns filed in the United States. The IRS provides confidential information to over 280 federal, state and local agencies. According to this TIGTA report the IRS's Internal Revenue Manual does not require on-site validation of an agency's ability to protect federal tax information and does not set any guidelines for an agency's background investigation for accessing this information. The TIGTA report surveyed 15 agencies that receive federal tax information and found that none of them conducted sufficient background checks on
The IRS is going to be "in charge" of "a huge national database" on health care that will include Americans’ "personal, intimate, most close-to-the-vest-secrets. [SEP] Internal Revenue Service // several months. By providing Social Security Numbers and other information obtained from prior computer crimes, the criminals were able to use the IRS's online "Get Transcript" function to have the IRS provide them with the tax returns and other private information of American tax filers. On August 17, 2015, IRS disclosed that the breach had compromised an additional 220,000 taxpayer records. On February 27, 2016, the IRS disclosed that more than 700,000 social security numbers and other sensitive information had been stolen. Internal Revenue Service The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) is the revenue service of the United States federal government.
The IRS is going to be "in charge" of "a huge national database" on health care that will include Americans’ "personal, intimate, most close-to-the-vest-secrets. [SEP] HealthCare.gov // of their privacy policies, contracts for third-party tools and URL construction. He said that Healthcare.gov had encrypted a URL that contains data on users’ income and age, and whether they were pregnant. On Jan. 20, 2015, the Associated Press reported in an article titled: "Government health care website quietly sharing personal data" that HealthCare.gov is providing access to enrollees' personal data to private companies that specialize in advertising. The data may include age, income, ZIP code, whether a person smokes, and if a person is pregnant. It may also include a computer's Internet address, which can identify a person's name
The IRS is going to be "in charge" of "a huge national database" on health care that will include Americans’ "personal, intimate, most close-to-the-vest-secrets. [SEP] Betsy McCaughey // Act, hidden provisions that would harm the health of Americans as well as the healthcare sector of the economy. She argued that the bill would establish two powerful new bureaucracies: the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology and the Federal Coordinating Council for Comparative Effectiveness Research. McCaughey said the National Coordinator would monitor patients' electronic medical records to ensure that doctors and hospitals treated patients in a way that "the federal government deems appropriate and cost effective" and that doctors and hospitals deviating from the government's "electronically delivered protocols" would be penalized. She said that the Federal Coordinating Council would
The IRS is going to be "in charge" of "a huge national database" on health care that will include Americans’ "personal, intimate, most close-to-the-vest-secrets. [SEP] HealthCare.gov // was plagued with security concerns and lead to information security experts publicly testifying before the Congressional Committee on Science, Space and Technology and others speaking to the government about security vulnerabilities in healthcare.gov. David Kennedy was able to locate 70,000 health records that were supposed to be private, but were publicly available via a google dork. There are concerns that personal information put into the website may not be secure in the way that users expect: on January 24, 2015 Kevin Counihan, the C.E.O. of Healthcare.gov, addressed concerns about privacy on the federal website. He said they launched a review
The IRS is going to be "in charge" of "a huge national database" on health care that will include Americans’ "personal, intimate, most close-to-the-vest-secrets. [SEP] Electronic health records in the United States // University Professor Jacob M. Appel, has claimed that the number of people who will need to have access to such a truly interoperable national system, which he estimates to be 12 million, will inevitable lead to breaches of privacy on a massive scale. Appel has written that while "hospitals keep careful tabs on who accesses the charts of VIP patients," they are powerless to act against "a meddlesome pharmacist in Alaska" who "looks up the urine toxicology on his daughter's fiance in Florida, to check if the fellow has a cocaine habit." This is a significant barrier for the adoption
The IRS is going to be "in charge" of "a huge national database" on health care that will include Americans’ "personal, intimate, most close-to-the-vest-secrets. [SEP] Exchange Information Disclosure Act // Leader Eric Cantor announced that the bill would be on the schedule for the week of January 6, 2014. Supporters of the bill argue that it would help Congress and the American people judge and follow the progress of the ACA. Republicans argue that the bill is necessary because the Obama Administration has refused to provide information about usage of healthcare.gov and enrollment in new health insurance plans. Heritage Action notes that the bill is "designed to increase transparency in the operation of American Health Benefits Exchanges" in response to security and transparency failures, but believes "the only acceptable solution
The IRS is going to be "in charge" of "a huge national database" on health care that will include Americans’ "personal, intimate, most close-to-the-vest-secrets. [SEP] Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act // run their own exchanges, which have signed up around 3 million additional people. The IRS announced that it would not require that tax returns indicate that a person has health insurance, reducing the effectiveness of the individual mandate, in response to an executive order from President Donald Trump. The CBO reported in March that the healthcare exchanges were expected to be stable. In May the United States House of Representatives voted to repeal the ACA using the American Health Care Act of 2017. The individual mandate was repealed starting in 2019 via the "Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017".
The IRS is going to be "in charge" of "a huge national database" on health care that will include Americans’ "personal, intimate, most close-to-the-vest-secrets. [SEP] Internal Revenue Service // Internal Revenue Service The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) is the revenue service of the United States federal government. The government agency is a bureau of the Department of the Treasury, and is under the immediate direction of the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, who is appointed to a five-year term by the President of the United States. The IRS is responsible for collecting taxes and administering the Internal Revenue Code, the main body of federal statutory tax law of the United States. The duties of the IRS include providing tax assistance to taxpayers and pursuing and resolving instances of erroneous or
The IRS is going to be "in charge" of "a huge national database" on health care that will include Americans’ "personal, intimate, most close-to-the-vest-secrets. [SEP] Federal Data Services Hub // and state Medicaid administrations. Data will include: Federal Data Services Hub The Federal Data Services Hub is a tool used to facilitate the government-backed Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act health coverage program. It is built by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and Health and Human Services (HHS). It combines data on income and employment from IRS records, health and entitlements from HHS records, identity from Social Security, citizenship from Department of Homeland Security records, criminality from Department of Justice records, and residency from state records. Also involved will be the Department of Defense, the Department of Veterans Affairs, the
Dr. Deborah Birx said at a press conference concerning testing for COVID-19 that "At $50 a test, it wasn’t enough to hire another technician to run the machine full-time. So at $100 a test, it is. [SEP] Corvus Systems // have 29 days. The system had a built in Omninet port on it. The system could boot from a locally connected floppy disk or Corvus Hard Drive or it could be booted over the Omninet network. In 1984, the base 256K system cost $3995 with monitor and keyboard and bundled Edword word processor. The floppy drive cost an additional $750. Hard drives from 6MB ($2195) to 20MB ($3995) were also available (SCSI I on some). A software bundle containing ISYS integrated spreadsheet, graphing, word processing, and communication software cost $495. The hardware necessary for networking cost $495 per workstation. The
Dr. Deborah Birx said at a press conference concerning testing for COVID-19 that "At $50 a test, it wasn’t enough to hire another technician to run the machine full-time. So at $100 a test, it is. [SEP] GeForce // rate of G-Sync-compatible monitors which would release in 2014, to combat tearing and judder. However, in October, AMD released the R9 290X, which came in at $100 less than the GTX 780. In response, Nvidia slashed the price of the GTX 780 by $150 and released the GTX 780 Ti, which featured a full 2880-core GK110 core even more powerful than the GTX TITAN, along with enhancements to the power delivery system which improved overclocking, and managed to pull ahead of AMD's new release. The GeForce 800M series consists of rebranded 700M series parts based on the Kepler architecture and
Dr. Deborah Birx said at a press conference concerning testing for COVID-19 that "At $50 a test, it wasn’t enough to hire another technician to run the machine full-time. So at $100 a test, it is. [SEP] GPD Win 2 // over 2,200 pre-order backers. Backers will get the device for $649, which is $250 off of the stated retail price upon release. However, it should be noted that GamePad Digital never changed the price of the original GPD Win upon release ($330 target retail price), with retail buyers paying the same amount as backers. By the end of the campaign, the project received $2,700,000 of backing. Like its predecessor, the GPD Win 2 runs 64-bit Windows 10 Home. The system is also capable of running GNU/Linux operating systems. It has DirectX 12 and OpenGL 4.4 support. Pre-release testers have said
Dr. Deborah Birx said at a press conference concerning testing for COVID-19 that "At $50 a test, it wasn’t enough to hire another technician to run the machine full-time. So at $100 a test, it is. [SEP] Cirrus Logic // perspective-correct texture mapping, bilinear filtering, single-pass lighting, gouraud shading, and alpha blending, was incomplete compared to the next generation of 3D chips. The GD546x family was limited by CPU processing at the time, CPU's could not feed it enough triangles which was the real performance block. The raw processing power of the GD546x was nearly 2.5 million 25 pixel triangles per second, much faster than competitors. When Intel announced they were entering the 3D market with the i740 Cirrus Logic exited the market, which at the time for Cirrus Logic was worth 500 million dollars annually. (Intel didn't catch up
Dr. Deborah Birx said at a press conference concerning testing for COVID-19 that "At $50 a test, it wasn’t enough to hire another technician to run the machine full-time. So at $100 a test, it is. [SEP] Micro Instrumentation and Telemetry Systems // The software was to begin shipping on June 23, 1975. The software price was $500, but discounted to $75 with the purchase of an Altair computer with 8k bytes of memory and a serial I/O card. On July 22, 1975 MITS signed a contract for the Altair BASIC with Bill Gates and Paul Allen. They received $3000 at signing and a royalty for each copy of BASIC sold; $30 for the 4K version, $35 for the 8K version and $60 for the expanded version. The contract had a cap of $180,000. MITS received an exclusive worldwide license to the program
Dr. Deborah Birx said at a press conference concerning testing for COVID-19 that "At $50 a test, it wasn’t enough to hire another technician to run the machine full-time. So at $100 a test, it is. [SEP] Max Palevsky // and January 1951. MADDIDA was priced from $25,000 to $30,000. MADDIDA would prove to be the last and most sophisticated dedicated differential analyzer ever built, since from then on all attention turned to electronic computers. Two years after Palevsky joined Northrop, the division was sold to Bendix Corporation. Palevsky worked at Bendix from 1952 to 1956 designing digital differential analyzers as a project engineer, working on the logic design for the company's first computer. In March 1956, Bendix offered their first digital computer, the Bendix G-15, described by some as the first personal computer (a claim that is widely disputed).
Dr. Deborah Birx said at a press conference concerning testing for COVID-19 that "At $50 a test, it wasn’t enough to hire another technician to run the machine full-time. So at $100 a test, it is. [SEP] Micro Instrumentation and Telemetry Systems // BASIC to customers who purchased additional memory and I/O boards from MITS was $75. Users may have gone along with that if the memory board were reliable. Customers bought the computer from MITS, and working memory from companies like Processor Technology. Rather than pay $500 for BASIC, they would acquire bootleg copies of the software. Only about ten percent of the early customers actually purchased BASIC. With a royalty due of $30 per copy, Gates felt that the computer hobbyist were stealing money from him. In February 1976 Bill Gates, "General Partner, Micro-Soft", wrote an "Open Letter to Hobbyists" that
Dr. Deborah Birx said at a press conference concerning testing for COVID-19 that "At $50 a test, it wasn’t enough to hire another technician to run the machine full-time. So at $100 a test, it is. [SEP] Indrema // than $10,000 USD for their kits. It would have had a GPU slide bay (it allowed you to slide out the graphics processor when a better one was available), an x86-based microprocessor running at 600 MHz, and it would have been able to process 120-180 million polygons per second. There was little hope for the L600, however, as its speculated release date of Summer 2001 or later was after the launch of Sega's Dreamcast and Sony's PlayStation 2, and very near or after the release of Microsoft's Xbox and Nintendo's GameCube. The Dreamcast and GameCube had launched at considerably lower
Dr. Deborah Birx said at a press conference concerning testing for COVID-19 that "At $50 a test, it wasn’t enough to hire another technician to run the machine full-time. So at $100 a test, it is. [SEP] SHA-1 // cluster with a total of 64 graphics cards. The authors estimated that a similar collision could be found by buying US$2,000 of GPU time on EC2. The authors estimated that the cost of renting enough of EC2 CPU/GPU time to generate a full collision for SHA-1 at the time of publication was between US$75K–120K, and noted that was well within the budget of criminal organizations, not to mention national intelligence agencies. As such, the authors recommended that SHA-1 be deprecated as quickly as possible. On , the CWI (Centrum Wiskunde & Informatica) and Google announced the "SHAttered" attack, in which
Dr. Deborah Birx said at a press conference concerning testing for COVID-19 that "At $50 a test, it wasn’t enough to hire another technician to run the machine full-time. So at $100 a test, it is. [SEP] Compaq SystemPro // from minicomputers — and its pricing was set accordingly. At the time of launch, the "low-end" SystemPro (a single 33-MHz 386 CPU, 4 MB RAM, and two 120-MB hard drives) listed for $15,999 (USD); the same machine with 840 MB of storage (four 210-MB hard drives) listed for $25,999 (USD). A second 386 processor card cost $3,500 (USD), and an additional 32 MB of RAM was $21,999 (USD). The SystemPro line continued for several years, ending with the SystemPro XL (the only model that supported symmetric multiprocessing). It was replaced by the Compaq Proliant line, which introduced hot swappable drives
The real Hillary Clinton has been dead since 1998 and was replaced with a clone. [SEP] Saturday Night Live parodies of Hillary Clinton // Tina Fey glasses!" It was during the 2008–09 season, while Poehler was playing Clinton, that Hillary Clinton herself made an appearance on the show, and faced off with Poehler as her doppelgänger. The real Sarah Palin also made a guest appearance during season 34. Kate McKinnon has portrayed Clinton regularly since March 2015 (after playing the role once prior in 2013). As of December 2016, she is the most-frequently appearing Hillary with 20 performances in the role, ahead of Amy Poehler at 19 performances, and Ana Gasteyer (at 16), despite having played it for less than half as long as
The real Hillary Clinton has been dead since 1998 and was replaced with a clone. [SEP] Rex Armistead // for R. Emmett Tyrrell, editor of the "American Spectator," who published the (unsupported) allegations just before the 1996 presidential election. On July 20, 1993 in Fort Marcy Park, Virginia, Vince Foster, a deputy White House Counsel during Clinton's first presidential term, was found with a gunshot to the head, a day after contacting his doctor to get treatment for depression. Several official investigations concluded unequivocally that the death was a suicide. However, as he was a law partner and friend of Hillary Rodham Clinton, it was alleged by a number of anti-Clinton conspiracy theorists that his knowledge of the Clintons'
The real Hillary Clinton has been dead since 1998 and was replaced with a clone. [SEP] Clinton family // great uncle Henry Oren Grisham, nicknamed "Buddy". The Clintons kept Buddy after they left the White House in January 2001 however the dog was hit by a car on January 2, 2002, and died. The two pets were reported to not get along. Clinton adopted a new dog in 2005, whom he named Seamus. Bill Clinton Hillary Clinton Hillary Clinton was the third female Secretary of State and the first former First Lady to hold political office. In addition, she was the runner-up for Democratic primary for president in 2008 and was the Democratic nominee in 2016. Clinton family The
The real Hillary Clinton has been dead since 1998 and was replaced with a clone. [SEP] Foreign policy of the Bill Clinton administration // believed to still be alive when they went missing. On November 16, 2000, Clinton arrived in Hanoi with his wife, Senator-elect Hillary Clinton and daughter Chelsea shortly before his second term in office ended. The next day Clinton spoke to the Vietnamese people publicly about both the conflict as well as the promise renewed relations meant. In 1995, tense relations with China and the imprisonment of an innocent American in the Communist nation, led to pressure for the U.S. to boycott the 1995 United Nations Fourth World Conference on Women in Beijing. The U.S. delegation, chaired by First Lady Hillary
The real Hillary Clinton has been dead since 1998 and was replaced with a clone. [SEP] Hillary Clinton 2008 presidential campaign // "The Presidential Bust of Hillary Rodham Clinton: The First Woman President of the United States of America" was unveiled at the Museum of Sex in New York and attracted attention for its named focus; sculptor Daniel Edwards hoped it would spark discussion about sex, politics and celebrity. In October 2006, Clinton's then-New York Senate race opponent, John Spencer, was reported to have commented on how much better Clinton looked now compared to in the 1970s, and speculated that she had cosmetic surgery. On the other hand, syndicated radio talk show host Mark Levin never mentioned her name without appending a
The real Hillary Clinton has been dead since 1998 and was replaced with a clone. [SEP] Juanita Broaddrick // nursing home business and retired, having done well as a businesswoman. She continues to live in Van Buren, on a 23-acre farm. Broaddrick resurrected her rape claims on Twitter during the United States presidential election, 2016, as Hillary Clinton was the Democratic nominee for president. In this context, the Broaddrick case has often brought about unease on the part of people who are generally supportive of the Clintons. In an October 2016 recap of the case, Dylan Matthews of Vox said: "The basic answer is that some of the claims [against Bill Clinton] appear more credible than others. There are
The real Hillary Clinton has been dead since 1998 and was replaced with a clone. [SEP] Denver Guardian // Denver Guardian The Denver Guardian was a fake news website, known for a popular untrue story about Hillary Clinton posted on the site on November 5, 2016, three days before the 2016 U.S. presidential election, which Clinton lost. The story, entitled "FBI Agent Suspected In Hillary Email Leaks Found Dead In Apparent Murder-Suicide", alleged that an FBI agent investigating Clinton had been found dead in a Maryland house fire. The story was shared on Facebook (a news source for "44 percent of U.S. adults") more than half a million times and earned more than 15.5 million impressions. According to a
The real Hillary Clinton has been dead since 1998 and was replaced with a clone. [SEP] Saturday Night Live parodies of Hillary Clinton // reprised her Clinton impression for the new season, portraying the presidential candidate enjoying a drink, opposite the real Hillary Clinton playing a bartender named "Val", who sings with her doppelgänger, and offers her counsel. "So Hillary, what brings you here tonight?", Clinton asks McKinnon. "Well, I needed to blow off some steam. I've had a hard couple of 22 years." McKinnon-as-Clinton responds. Cecily Strong plays Clinton's aide Huma Abedin in the skit, and former cast member Darrell Hammond appears in a cameo as Bill Clinton. McKinnon again portrayed Clinton on October 17, 2015, for "SNL"s rendering of the Democratic Primary
The real Hillary Clinton has been dead since 1998 and was replaced with a clone. [SEP] Juanita Broaddrick // by Nick Lulli, with the title "You'd Better Put Some Ice On That: How I Survived Being Raped By Bill Clinton". Juanita Broaddrick Juanita Broaddrick is an American former nursing home administrator. In 1999, she alleged that U.S. President Bill Clinton raped her in April 1978 when he was the attorney general of Arkansas. Clinton's attorney, David Kendall, denied the allegations on his client's behalf. Clinton declined to comment further on the issue. Rumors circulated about Broaddrick's allegations for many years, but she refused to speak to the media. In a sworn statement in 1997 with the placeholder name "Jane
The real Hillary Clinton has been dead since 1998 and was replaced with a clone. [SEP] Helium // of a game. The incident was not made public until a week later. The staff of TV Asahi held an emergency press conference to communicate that the member had been taken to the hospital and is showing signs of rehabilitation such as moving eyes and limbs, but her consciousness has not been sufficiently recovered as of yet. Police have launched an investigation due to a neglect of safety measures. On July 13, 2017 CBS News reported that a political operative who reportedly attempted to recover e-mails missing from the Clinton server, Peter W. Smith, "apparently" committed suicide in May at
After Massachusetts passed a mandatory health insurance law "their mortality rate went down...it saved lives. [SEP] Salvatore DiMasi // law. In April 2006, Governor Mitt Romney signed the first-in-the-nation universal health insurance bill into law. As a result of the law, Massachusetts reduced the number of uninsured adults by nearly half within the first year of mandatory health coverage and increased the percentage of people receiving routine preventive care, according to the first major study of the 2006 law conducted by the Urban Institute. In 2007, Massachusetts governor Deval Patrick submitted a bill that would allow the construction and operation of three resort-style casinos in the state. He argued that these casinos would generate $2 billion for the state
After Massachusetts passed a mandatory health insurance law "their mortality rate went down...it saved lives. [SEP] Health insurance mandate // required individuals, and not employers, to buy insurance, as an alternative to Clinton's plan. Hillary Clinton's plan in 2008 also included an individual mandate. An individual health-insurance mandate was initially enacted on a state level: the 2005 Massachusetts health care reform law. In 2006, Republican Mitt Romney, then governor of Massachusetts, signed an individual mandate into law with strong bipartisan support. In 2007, a Senate bill featuring a federal mandate, authored by Bob Bennett (R-UT) and Ron Wyden (D-OR), attracted substantial bipartisan support. , more than 97 percent of Massachusetts residents were insured, which made it the state with the
After Massachusetts passed a mandatory health insurance law "their mortality rate went down...it saved lives. [SEP] Health insurance mandate // lowest percentage of people without health insurance. Before the law was passed, per capita health care costs in Massachusetts were the highest for any part of the country except D.C. From 2003 to 2008 (three years prior and two years after enactment) Massachusetts insurance premiums continued to outpace the rest of United States, however the rate of growth year to year for Massachusetts has slowed as a result of the law. New Jersey adopted an individual healthcare insurance mandate effective January 1, 2019, whereas other states provide community rating and guaranteed issue without mandates. Romney's success in installing an individual
After Massachusetts passed a mandatory health insurance law "their mortality rate went down...it saved lives. [SEP] King v. Burwell // challenge to the act. The Court noted that previous attempts to reform health care insurance "encouraged people to wait until they got sick to buy insurance" resulting in "an economic 'death spiral': premiums rose, the number of people buying insurance declined, and insurers left the market entirely." It further noted that in 2006 "Massachusetts discovered a way to make the guaranteed issue and community rating requirements work—by requiring individuals to buy insurance and by providing tax credits to certain individuals to make insurance more affordable." and that "the Affordable Care Act adopts a version of the three key reforms that
After Massachusetts passed a mandatory health insurance law "their mortality rate went down...it saved lives. [SEP] Massachusetts health care reform // health care industry price controls were passed in August 2012, and the employer mandate was repealed in 2013 in favor of the federal mandate (even though enforcement of the federal mandate was delayed until January 2015). Because Mitt Romney was the governor of Massachusetts at the time, the law has colloquially been called Romneycare, a reference to the nicknaming of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act as "Obamacare". Among its many effects, the law established an independent public authority, the Commonwealth Health Insurance Connector Authority, also known as the Massachusetts Health Connector. The Connector acts as an insurance broker
After Massachusetts passed a mandatory health insurance law "their mortality rate went down...it saved lives. [SEP] Massachusetts health care reform // also illustrates the long-term decrease in ESI, and an increase in public, free and subsidized insurance. In the early years of the implementation of the law, approximately 2% of those eligible were determined not to have had access to affordable insurance, and a small number opted for a religious exemption to the mandate. Approximately 1% of taxpayers were determined by the Commonwealth to have had access to affordable insurance during tax year 2009 (latest data available), and had to pay an income tax penalty instead. Comparing the first half of 2007 to the first half of 2009, spending from the
After Massachusetts passed a mandatory health insurance law "their mortality rate went down...it saved lives. [SEP] Health care reforms proposed during the Obama administration // die because of lack of medical care were estimated in a 1997 analysis to be nearly 100,000 per year. A study of the effects of the Massachusetts universal health care law (which took effect in 2006) found a 3% drop in mortality among people 20–64 years old - 1 death per 830 people with insurance. Other studies, just as those examining the randomized distribution of Medicaid insurance to low-income people in Oregon in 2008, found no change in death rate. The cost of insurance has been a primary motivation in the reform of the US healthcare system, and many different
After Massachusetts passed a mandatory health insurance law "their mortality rate went down...it saved lives. [SEP] Governorship of Mitt Romney // In particular, Romney successfully pushed for incorporating an individual mandate at the state level. U.S. Senator from Massachusetts Edward M. Kennedy, who had made universal health coverage his life's work, gave Romney's plan a positive reception, which encouraged Democratic legislators to work with it. The effort eventually gained the support of all major stakeholders within the state, and Romney helped break a logjam between rival Democratic leaders in the legislature. On April 12, 2006, Romney signed legislation that mandates that nearly all Massachusetts residents buy or obtain health insurance coverage or face a penalty (up to approximately $2000 for 2008
After Massachusetts passed a mandatory health insurance law "their mortality rate went down...it saved lives. [SEP] Massachusetts health care reform // on the insurance reform. Based on the combination of the increased Health Safety Net tax, general revenue (state income and sales taxes were increased 20%) and smaller additional taxes, the cost of the reform reached about 2% of the state's annual budget in fiscal year 2013, which ended June 30, 2013, up from 1.5% in fiscal 2011. Data following enactment of mandatory insurance showed total emergency visits and spending continued to increase, and low-severity emergency visits decreased less than 2%; researchers concluded, "To the extent that policymakers expected a substantial decrease in overall and low-severity ED visits, this study does
After Massachusetts passed a mandatory health insurance law "their mortality rate went down...it saved lives. [SEP] Massachusetts health care reform // period in question, and their overall findings are "incompatible with claims that health reform has cut medical bankruptcy filings significantly." A 2015 study found that the law had "modest effects" on costs of outpatient care for people who were already insured. During the week of April 5, 2010, "The Boston Globe" reported that more than a thousand people in Massachusetts had "gamed" the mandate/penalty provision of the law since implementation by choosing to be insured only a few months a year, typically when in need of a specific medical procedure. On the average, the Globe reported, these part-time enrolees were
Humira Provides Effective, Non-Steroid Alternative for Eye Inflammation [SEP] Birdshot chorioretinopathy // name Humira, have proven to be effective treatment options for birdshot chorioretinopathy. Substantial reduction and even stabilization of both vitreous inflammation and retinal vasculitis have been evident via electroretinography, during daclizumab (IL-2 receptor blocker) therapy. This is also supported by the observation of elevated levels of IL-2 in the eyes of patients. Loss of visual acuity unrelated to the inflammation caused by the disorder, however, often remains unchanged despite usage of the drug. This is reflected by the lack of difference in visual acuity and the vision-related quality of life among various treatment categories in birdshot patients. Contraindications and adverse
Humira Provides Effective, Non-Steroid Alternative for Eye Inflammation [SEP] Adalimumab // Adalimumab Adalimumab, sold under the trade name Humira among others, is a medication used to treat rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis, Crohn's disease, ulcerative colitis, chronic psoriasis, hidradenitis suppurativa, and juvenile idiopathic arthritis. It has also been approved to treat the rare chronic eye condition Birdshot retinochoroidopathy, commonly referred to simply as “birdshot”. In rheumatoid arthritis, adalimumab has a response rate similar to methotrexate, and in combination, it nearly doubles the response rate of methotrexate alone. Adalimumab is a TNF-inhibiting, anti-inflammatory, biologic medication. It binds to tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNFα), which normally binds to TNFα receptors, leading to the
Humira Provides Effective, Non-Steroid Alternative for Eye Inflammation [SEP] Rimexolone // Rimexolone Rimexolone is a glucocorticoid steroid used to treat inflammation in the eye. It is marketed as a 1% eye drop suspension under the trade name Vexol by Alcon Laboratories, but was discontinued in the US and other countries. Rimexolone is used to treat inflammation after eye surgery, to treat anterior uveitis, conjunctivitis and keratitis. The substance is contraindicated in herpes simplex and most other viral eye infections, as well as mycobacterial, fungal and amoebal eye infections because it only reduces the inflammation but does not act against such microorganisms. The most common adverse effects are blurred vision, tearing and
Humira Provides Effective, Non-Steroid Alternative for Eye Inflammation [SEP] Keratoendotheliitis fugax hereditaria // Molecular genetic testing is also an option. Patients have reported benefit from immediate treatment of their attacks with a topical corticosteroid or non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) applied a few times a day for up to one week. Some patients have found more benefit from an oral NSAID. The repeated corneal inflammation over time can lead to reduced visual acuity. Keratoendotheliitis fugax hereditaria was first described in 1964 by Olavi Valle (1934-2013), a Finnish ophthalmologist with an interest in hereditary eye diseases. He reported this disease as keratitis fugax hereditaria in a family with 10 affected members over 4 generations. Two
Humira Provides Effective, Non-Steroid Alternative for Eye Inflammation [SEP] Macular edema // with NSAID or cortisone eye drops. Prophylactic use of Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs has been reported to reduce the risk of macular edema to some extent. In 2010 the US FDA approved the use of Lucentis intravitreal injections for macular edema. Iluvien, a sustained release intravitreal implant developed by Alimera Sciences, has been approved in Austria, Portugal and the U.K. for the treatment of vision impairment associated with chronic diabetic macular edema (DME) considered insufficiently responsive to available therapies. Additional EU country approvals are anticipated. In 2013 Lucentis by intravitreal injection was approved by the National Institute for Health and Care
Humira Provides Effective, Non-Steroid Alternative for Eye Inflammation [SEP] Rimexolone // faeces. Rimexolone Rimexolone is a glucocorticoid steroid used to treat inflammation in the eye. It is marketed as a 1% eye drop suspension under the trade name Vexol by Alcon Laboratories, but was discontinued in the US and other countries. Rimexolone is used to treat inflammation after eye surgery, to treat anterior uveitis, conjunctivitis and keratitis. The substance is contraindicated in herpes simplex and most other viral eye infections, as well as mycobacterial, fungal and amoebal eye infections because it only reduces the inflammation but does not act against such microorganisms. The most common adverse effects are blurred vision, tearing
Humira Provides Effective, Non-Steroid Alternative for Eye Inflammation [SEP] Amcinonide // drug formulation itself has not been patented but ways to incorporate it into occlusive dressings such as a pressure sensitive adhesive layer as demonstrated by Senju USA, Inc. in 2012 - 2014. Specifically, these new dosage forms target diseases of the eyelid such as blepharitis, allergic conjunctivitis, vernal keratoconjunctivitis, and atopic keratoconjunctivitis. This is significant as previous formulations of Amcinonide have not been used to treat ocular inflammations. Patents such as these are likely to continue to be published as research searches for low cost alternatives to new drugs to increase bioavailability and patient compliance. Taro Pharmaceuticals obtained FDA approval
Humira Provides Effective, Non-Steroid Alternative for Eye Inflammation [SEP] Adalimumab // costing more than £400 million a year for about 46,000 patients. It may not become available in the US until 2023. Adalimumab Adalimumab, sold under the trade name Humira among others, is a medication used to treat rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis, Crohn's disease, ulcerative colitis, chronic psoriasis, hidradenitis suppurativa, and juvenile idiopathic arthritis. It has also been approved to treat the rare chronic eye condition Birdshot retinochoroidopathy, commonly referred to simply as “birdshot”. In rheumatoid arthritis, adalimumab has a response rate similar to methotrexate, and in combination, it nearly doubles the response rate of methotrexate alone. Adalimumab is
Humira Provides Effective, Non-Steroid Alternative for Eye Inflammation [SEP] Mentholatum // new eye product called Zi, which is designed to cool and refresh the eyes with natural camphor and pH-balanced purified water solution. Later that year, Zi for Eyes was named "Best New Eyecare Product" in the 1999 Superdrug Health & Beauty Awards. The company continued to manufacture new products, such as Migraine Ice (chill pads for migraine sufferers), Softlips Lip Protectant, Deep Heating Rub, Natural Ice Medicated Lip Balm, Pain Patch, Fisherman's Friend cough drops, Fletcher's Castoria, Red Cross Toothache Remedy, Red Cross Canker Sore Medication, and of course, its original Mentholatum Ointment. By the end of 1999, Mentholatum alone
Humira Provides Effective, Non-Steroid Alternative for Eye Inflammation [SEP] Loteprednol // Loteprednol Loteprednol (as the ester loteprednol etabonate) is a corticosteroid used to treat inflammations of the eye. It is marketed by Bausch and Lomb as Lotemax and Loterex. Applications for this drug include the reduction of inflammation after eye surgery, seasonal allergic conjunctivitis, uveitis, as well as chronic forms of keratitis (e.g. adenoviral and Thygeson's keratitis), vernal keratoconjunctivitis, pingueculitis, and episcleritis. As corticosteroids are immunosuppressive, loteprednol is contraindicated in patients with viral, fungal or mycobacterial infections of the eye. The most common adverse effects in patients being treated with the gel formulation are anterior chamber inflammation (5%), eye pain (2%),
HIV-positive basketball star Earvin "Magic" Johnson donated blood to patients with leukemia. [SEP] Magic Johnson // ESPN in 2007. His friendship and rivalry with Boston Celtics star Larry Bird, whom he faced in the 1979 NCAA finals and three NBA championship series, are well documented. Since his retirement, Johnson has been an advocate for HIV/AIDS prevention and safe sex, as well as an entrepreneur, philanthropist, broadcaster and motivational speaker. His public announcement of his HIV-positive status in 1991 helped dispel the stereotype, still widely held at the time, that HIV was a "gay disease" that heterosexuals need not worry about; his bravery in making this announcement was widely commended. Named by "Ebony" magazine as one of
HIV-positive basketball star Earvin "Magic" Johnson donated blood to patients with leukemia. [SEP] Pau Gasol // the perfect student, a tad shy, and a bit of a joker." He originally did not want to make sports his career. On the day that Magic Johnson announced his HIV-positive status in 1991, the 11-year-old Gasol, who had heard the news in school, decided that he wanted to be a doctor and find a cure for AIDS. He enrolled in medical school at the University of Barcelona, but left as his basketball career at FC Barcelona advanced. He remains strongly interested in medicine. Gasol regularly visits Childrens Hospital of Los Angeles, a standard stop for athletes making charitable visits
HIV-positive basketball star Earvin "Magic" Johnson donated blood to patients with leukemia. [SEP] Magic Johnson // that they, too, were at risk". At the time, only a small percentage of HIV-positive American men had contracted it from heterosexual sex, and it was initially rumored that Johnson was gay or bisexual, although he denied both. Johnson later accused Isiah Thomas of spreading the rumors, a claim Thomas denied. Johnson's HIV announcement became a major news story in the United States, and in 2004 was named as ESPN's seventh-most memorable moment of the previous 25 years. Many articles praised Johnson as a hero, and former U.S. President George H. W. Bush said, "For me, Magic is a hero,
HIV-positive basketball star Earvin "Magic" Johnson donated blood to patients with leukemia. [SEP] Magic Johnson // tested positive for HIV. In a press conference held on November 7, 1991, Johnson made a public announcement that he would retire immediately. He stated that his wife Cookie and their unborn child did not have HIV, and that he would dedicate his life to "battle this deadly disease". Johnson initially said that he did not know how he contracted the disease, but later acknowledged that it was through having numerous sexual partners during his playing career. He admitted to having "harems of women" and talked openly about his sexual activities because "he was convinced that heterosexuals needed to know
HIV-positive basketball star Earvin "Magic" Johnson donated blood to patients with leukemia. [SEP] 1991–92 Los Angeles Lakers season // as HIV can be transmitted by blood contamination, they argued that Johnson would be a deadly risk if he would get a bleeding wound and touch them. One of the most vocal opponents was Utah Jazz forward Karl Malone. Johnson won the skeptics over and made a triumphant return, leading the West to a 153-113 win and being crowned All-Star MVP. The game was also a curiosity, ending prematurely when he drained a last-minute three-pointer and his colleagues refused to play further, instead running collectively on court, hugging him and exchanging high-fives. However, it remained Johnson's last NBA game until
HIV-positive basketball star Earvin "Magic" Johnson donated blood to patients with leukemia. [SEP] Magic Johnson // in publicizing the spread of the disease. To prevent his HIV infection from progressing to AIDS, Johnson takes a daily combination of drugs. He has advertised GlaxoSmithKline's drugs, and partnered with Abbott Laboratories to publicize the fight against AIDS in African American communities. In 905 NBA games, Johnson tallied 17,707 points, 6,559 rebounds, and 10,141 assists, translating to career averages of 19.5 points, 7.2 rebounds, and 11.2 assists per game, the highest assists per game average in NBA history. Johnson shares the single-game playoff record for assists (24), holds the Finals record for assists in a game (21), and has
HIV-positive basketball star Earvin "Magic" Johnson donated blood to patients with leukemia. [SEP] Michelle Maykin // an assistant dance instructor to Wat Buddhanusorn Thai Temple; as well as Volunteer Activity Coordinator to the Santa Clara Juvenile Hall. Diagnosed with acute myeloid leukemia on February 27, 2007, Maykin underwent numerous rounds of chemotherapy and reached a state of remission. After months of searching, she received a cord blood transplant in November 2008 which seemingly allowed her to regain control of certain aspects of her life. Due to her experiences with AML, seeking to help others affected by blood cancer, and seeing the disparities located within the racial make-up of potential donors, she began dedicating herself to helping
HIV-positive basketball star Earvin "Magic" Johnson donated blood to patients with leukemia. [SEP] Magic Johnson // began intense workouts to help his fight against HIV, raising his bench press from 135 to 300 pounds, and increasing his weight to 255 pounds. He officially returned to the team on January 29, 1996, and played his first game the following day against the Golden State Warriors. Coming off the bench, Johnson had 19 points, 8 rebounds, and 10 assists to help the Lakers to a 128–118 victory. On February 14, Johnson recorded the final triple-double of his career, when he scored 15 points, along with 10 rebounds and 13 assists in a victory against the Atlanta Hawks. Playing
HIV-positive basketball star Earvin "Magic" Johnson donated blood to patients with leukemia. [SEP] Hematopoietic stem cell transplantation // Life Marrow Registry. In 2007, a team of doctors in Berlin, Germany, including Gero Hütter, performed a stem cell transplant for leukemia patient Timothy Ray Brown, who was also HIV-positive. From 60 matching donors, they selected a [CCR5]-Δ32 homozygous individual with two genetic copies of a rare variant of a cell surface receptor. This genetic trait confers resistance to HIV infection by blocking attachment of HIV to the cell. Roughly one in 1000 people of European ancestry have this inherited mutation, but it is rarer in other populations. The transplant was repeated a year later after a leukemia relapse. Over
HIV-positive basketball star Earvin "Magic" Johnson donated blood to patients with leukemia. [SEP] 1991–92 Los Angeles Lakers season // was going to dedicate his life to spread the word about HIV prevention and promote safer sex. The NBA world was in shock, and even U. S. president George H. W. Bush mourned: "For me, Magic is a hero, a hero for anyone who loves sports." Johnson immediately was listed as an injured reserve on the roster, but due to his valid contract, he continued to be paid by the Lakers franchise. Nonetheless, Johnson was still voted into the 1992 NBA All-Star Game, and the press speculated whether he was going to make a comeback. Moreover, many colleagues were wary:
Menopause 'hot flash' medicine could cut symptom by three quarters, trial shows [SEP] Hot flash // them to narrow and widen. While not all women respond to clonidine as a hot flash medication, it can reduce hot flashes by 40% in some peri-menopausal women. Isoflavones are commonly found in legumes such as soy and red clover. The two soy isoflavones implicated in relieving menopausal symptoms are genistein and daidzein, and are also known as phytoestrogens. The half life of these molecules is about eight hours, which might explain why some studies have not consistently shown effectiveness of soy products for menopausal symptoms. Although red clover ("Trifolium pratense") contains isoflavones similar to soy, the effectiveness of this
Menopause 'hot flash' medicine could cut symptom by three quarters, trial shows [SEP] Hot flash // treatment. If a woman chooses hormones, they suggest she take the lowest dose that alleviates her symptoms for as short a time as possible. The US Endocrine Society concluded that women taking hormone replacement therapy for 5 years or more experienced overall benefits in their symptoms including relief of hot flashes and symptoms of urogenital atrophy and prevention of fractures and diabetes. When estrogen as estradiol is used transdermally as a patch, gel, or pessary with micronized progesterone this may avoid the serious side effects associated with oral estradiol HRT since this avoids first pass metabolism (Phase I drug metabolism).
Menopause 'hot flash' medicine could cut symptom by three quarters, trial shows [SEP] Menopause // hot flashes. It is the most effective treatment option, especially when delivered as a skin patch. Its use, however, appears to increase the risk of strokes and blood clots. When used for menopausal symptoms some recommend it be used for the shortest time possible and at the lowest dose possible. Evidence to support long term use however is poor. It also appears effective for preventing bone loss and osteoporotic fracture, but it is generally recommended only for women at significant risk for whom other therapies are unsuitable. HRT may be unsuitable for some women, including those at increased risk of
Menopause 'hot flash' medicine could cut symptom by three quarters, trial shows [SEP] Hormone replacement therapy // incidence of colorectal cancer and bone fracture. Some of the WHI findings were again found in a larger national study done in the United Kingdom, known as the Million Women Study (MWS). As a result of these findings, the number of women taking HRT dropped precipitously. The WHI recommended that women with non-surgical menopause take the lowest feasible dose of HRT for the shortest possible time to minimize associated risks. The current indications for use from the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) include short-term treatment of menopausal symptoms, such as vasomotor hot flashes or vaginal atrophy, and prevention
Menopause 'hot flash' medicine could cut symptom by three quarters, trial shows [SEP] Hot flash // (VMS)—the clinical name for hot flashes—has not yet been fully studied. There are hints at reduced levels of estrogen as the primary cause of hot flashes. There are indications that hot flashes may be due to a change in the hypothalamus's control of temperature regulation. More recent research points to mitochondrial uncoupling due to a lack of oestrogen. Transgender men on hormone blockers to halt their female puberty also commonly experience hot flashes, because hormone blockers simulate or induce menopause. Hormone replacement therapy may relieve many of the symptoms of menopause. However, oral HRT may increase the risk of breast
Menopause 'hot flash' medicine could cut symptom by three quarters, trial shows [SEP] Menopause // when their hormone levels fell. Following the removal of the uterus, symptoms typically occur earlier, at an average of 45 years of age. In the years before menopause, a woman's periods typically become irregular, which means that periods may be longer or shorter in duration or be lighter or heavier in the amount of flow. During this time, women often experience hot flashes; these typically last from 30 seconds to ten minutes and may be associated with shivering, sweating, and reddening of the skin. Hot flashes often stop occurring after a year or two. Other symptoms may include vaginal dryness,
Menopause 'hot flash' medicine could cut symptom by three quarters, trial shows [SEP] Hot Flash Havoc // billion women in menopause and over 1.5 billion women in perimenopause. The women interviewed in the documentary talk about their sex lives with candor and humor. The film addresses the use of hormone therapy to treat the symptoms of menopause and confronts the 2002 Women's Health Initiative study that led women to forgo estrogen-replacement medications and, in some cases, jeopardize their health. The documentary was selected for several film festivals around the United States including The Aspen Film Festival, The Film Festival of Colorado, Fort Lauderdale International Film Festival, Gig Harbor Film Festival, Port Townsend Film Festival, LA Femme Film
Menopause 'hot flash' medicine could cut symptom by three quarters, trial shows [SEP] Hot flash // commonly used in the treatment of depression. They have been found efficient in alleviating hot flashes. On 28 June 2013 FDA approved Brisdelle (low-dose paroxetine mesylate) for the treatment of moderate-to-severe vasomotor symptoms (e.g. hot flashes and night sweats) associated with menopause. Paroxetine became the first and only non-hormonal therapy for menopausal hot flashes approved by FDA. Clonidine is a blood pressure-lowering medication that can be used to relieve menopausal hot flashes when hormone replacement therapy is not needed or not desired. For hot flashes, clonidine works by helping reduce the response of the blood vessels to stimuli that cause
Menopause 'hot flash' medicine could cut symptom by three quarters, trial shows [SEP] Hot flash // Hot flash Hot flashes (American English) or hot flushes (British English) are a form of flushing due to reduced levels of estradiol. Hot flashes are a symptom which may have several other causes, but which is often caused by the changing hormone levels that are characteristic of menopause. They are typically experienced as a feeling of intense heat with sweating and rapid heartbeat, and may typically last from 2 to 30 minutes for each occurrence. Hot flashes, a common symptom of menopause and perimenopause, are typically experienced as a feeling of intense heat with sweating and rapid heartbeat, and may
Menopause 'hot flash' medicine could cut symptom by three quarters, trial shows [SEP] Menerba // Menerba showed a statistically significant reduction in the number of hot flashes after 12 weeks of treatment and had a statistically significant reduction in nighttime awakenings from hot flashes (-67%, p=0.05). There was no difference in uterine bleeding between treatment groups and placebo, and no uterine abnormalities were observed during the study. The only side effect observed was mild loose stools (12% in treatment group vs. 3% in the placebo group). Further studies have shown that most active estrogenic compound in Menerba is liquiritigenin, derived from the root of "Glycyrrhizae uralensis" Fisch, one of the 22 botanically derived ingredients found
In February and March 2018, hundreds of Canadian doctors signed a petition asking for the cancellation of pay deals from which they would personally benefit. [SEP] Kathy Dunderdale // Kennedy and Marshall joined the NLMA president to announce that a tentative agreement between the provincial government and doctors had been reached. The offer included 100 percent Atlantic Canadian parity within the first two years of the agreement, pay equity for salaried specialists, and retention bonuses for fee-for-service rural physicians. As a result of the new deal, the 13 of the 14 doctors who tendered their resignations "en masse" in November rescinded their resignations. On September 17, 2013, the government announced that a four-year tentative agreement had been reached with the Newfoundland and Labrador Association of Public and Private Employees
In February and March 2018, hundreds of Canadian doctors signed a petition asking for the cancellation of pay deals from which they would personally benefit. [SEP] Americans for Prosperity // Now television advertisement, a Canadian woman, Shona Holmes, said she could not get timely treatment in Canada and ultimately was treated in the U.S. Patients United Now staged more than three hundred rallies to oppose the Obama administration's proposed Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (ACA). In summer 2009, Patients First sponsored a six-week "Hands Off My Health Care" bus tour. Hands Off My Health Care events included rallies protesting against the health care plan and collected signatures in an effort to raise awareness about free-market-based health care reforms. AFP held Hands Off My Health Care events in more than
In February and March 2018, hundreds of Canadian doctors signed a petition asking for the cancellation of pay deals from which they would personally benefit. [SEP] Saskatchewan doctors' strike // a mediator and the "Saskatoon Agreement" ending the strike was signed on July 23, 1962. As a result of the agreement, amendments to the Act were introduced allowing doctors to opt out of Medicare and raising fee payments to doctors under the plan and to increase the number of physicians sitting on the Medical Care Insurance Commission. By 1965, most doctors favoured the continuation of Medicare. The strike was a significant test for Medicare. Its failure allowed the program to continue and the Saskatchewan model was adopted throughout Canada within ten years. The political divisions within the province aggravated by
In February and March 2018, hundreds of Canadian doctors signed a petition asking for the cancellation of pay deals from which they would personally benefit. [SEP] Saskatchewan doctors' strike // leader by Woodrow Lloyd who was to face enormous pressure to withdraw the plan. In an attempt to reach a compromise, Lloyd delayed the implementation of Medicare from April to July 1962. In May 1962, a meeting of the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Saskatchewan passed a resolution vowing that physicians would close their practices when Medicare came into force. "Keep Our Doctors" committees were established throughout the province and a campaign, backed by the "Regina Leader-Post" was undertaken, with warnings that most doctors would leave the province if socialized medicine were introduced. On July 1, 1962, the doctors
In February and March 2018, hundreds of Canadian doctors signed a petition asking for the cancellation of pay deals from which they would personally benefit. [SEP] Canadian Anti-racism Education and Research Society // from racism. Five foreign trained medical doctors began a hunger strike in 1990 to draw attention to discrimination in the allocation of medical internships in the province of British Columbia, Canada. In response to a request from the doctors, CAERS and other representatives met with Bill Vander Zalm, then Premier of the province, and John Jensen, then Minister of Health, to demand that the Ministry of Health and the College of Physicians and Surgeons provide equal access for immigrant doctors to internship programs. A report on the demands was written. Meetings were also arranged with the College of Physicians and
In February and March 2018, hundreds of Canadian doctors signed a petition asking for the cancellation of pay deals from which they would personally benefit. [SEP] Diane Marleau // of illness. She intervened on more than one occasion to ensure that provincial governments upheld the principles of the Canada Health Act. Marleau withheld $750,000 in transfer payments to British Columbia in April 1994, after some doctors in that province extra-billed their patients for services. She defended this decision by arguing that it was inappropriate for taxpayers to subsidize private medicine. The British Columbia government supported her decision, and pledged to work with her in the future against extra-billing. Marleau also expressed concern about Ontario's cuts to out-of-country hospital insurance in the same period, though she added that her government
In February and March 2018, hundreds of Canadian doctors signed a petition asking for the cancellation of pay deals from which they would personally benefit. [SEP] Canadian Medical Protective Association // a lawyer may inform a plaintiff that there is no reasonable chance of success with a lawsuit, in which case it may be abandoned or discontinued. Often, a Statement of Claim is filed years before the case is resolved, thus the number of actions commenced in a given year need not equal the sum of the resolved cases in that year. Doctors pay annual membership fees to the CMPA. Provincial governments reimburse a portion of those fees as part of negotiated contracts with provincial medical associations, in lieu of other forms of compensation provided to Canadian physicians. Membership fees, together
In February and March 2018, hundreds of Canadian doctors signed a petition asking for the cancellation of pay deals from which they would personally benefit. [SEP] Healthcare in Canada // supply of doctors to guarantee its members' incomes. In 2008, the Ontario Medical Association and the Ontario government agreed to a four-year contract with a 12.25% doctors' pay raise, which was expected to cost Ontarians an extra $1 billion. Ontario's then-premier Dalton McGuinty said, "One of the things that we've got to do, of course, is ensure that we're competitive ... to attract and keep doctors here in Ontario...". In December 2008, the Society of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists of Canada reported a critical shortage of obstetricians and gynecologists. The report stated that 1,370 obstetricians were practising in Canada and that
In February and March 2018, hundreds of Canadian doctors signed a petition asking for the cancellation of pay deals from which they would personally benefit. [SEP] Canada Post // major concessions by the employees, such as a $4 per hour reduction in starting wages and the complete elimination of bankable sick days Since this agreement was signed and agreed to by the membership of CUPW, the court ruling on the back to work legislation was of no effect. In 2016, Canada Post and CUPW negotiated a two-year agreement without a labour disruption. This agreement expired January 31, 2018. Starting October 22, 2018, Canada Post workers have organized rotating strikes nationwide, the major friction points being major processing centers, including Toronto and Richmond. In mid-November, annual Black Friday and Cyber
In February and March 2018, hundreds of Canadian doctors signed a petition asking for the cancellation of pay deals from which they would personally benefit. [SEP] Choosing Wisely Canada // and the University of Toronto to launch Choosing Wisely Canada on April 2, 2014. In the first wave of the campaign, nine national medical specialty societies released evidence-based lists of 41 tests, treatments and procedures that provided no benefit or potentially caused harm to patients. Under the leadership of Dr. Wendy Levinson and the Canadian Medical Association, Choosing Wisely Canada initially gained momentum in Ontario and subsequently became a national movement. The second and third waves of physician recommendation lists and patient education materials were launched on October 29, 2014, and June 2, 2015, respectively. As of June 2, 2015,
Blood test may identify gestational diabetes risk in first trimester [SEP] Gestational diabetes // test appears to find more women with gestational diabetes than only screening women with risk factors. It is not clear how these screening tests affect the rest of the pregnancy. Future research should include how the method of screening impacts the mother and baby. Opinions differ about optimal screening and diagnostic measures, in part due to differences in population risks, cost-effectiveness considerations, and lack of an evidence base to support large national screening programs. The most elaborate regimen entails a random blood glucose test during a booking visit, a screening glucose challenge test around 24–28 weeks' gestation, followed by an
Blood test may identify gestational diabetes risk in first trimester [SEP] Gestational diabetes // to the mother and baby if gestational diabetes remains untreated. When a plasma glucose level is found to be higher than 126 mg/dl (7.0 mmol/l) after fasting, or over 200 mg/dl (11.1 mmol/l) on any occasion, and if this is confirmed on a subsequent day, the diagnosis of GDM is made, and no further testing is required. These tests are typically performed at the first antenatal visit. They are simple to administer and inexpensive, but have a lower test performance compared to the other tests, with moderate sensitivity, low specificity and high false positive rates. The screening glucose challenge test
Blood test may identify gestational diabetes risk in first trimester [SEP] Gestational diabetes // low blood glucose levels (hypoglycemia). A number of screening and diagnostic tests have been used to look for high levels of glucose in plasma or serum in defined circumstances. One method is a stepwise approach where a suspicious result on a screening test is followed by diagnostic test. Alternatively, a more involved diagnostic test can be used directly at the first prenatal visit for a woman with a high-risk pregnancy. (for example in those with polycystic ovarian syndrome or acanthosis nigricans). Non-challenge blood glucose tests involve measuring glucose levels in blood samples without challenging the subject with glucose solutions. A
Blood test may identify gestational diabetes risk in first trimester [SEP] Gestational diabetes // setting of insulin resistance. Risk factors include being overweight, previously having gestational diabetes, a family history of type 2 diabetes, and having polycystic ovarian syndrome. Diagnosis is by blood tests. For those at normal risk screening is recommended between 24 and 28 weeks' gestation. For those at high risk testing may occur at the first prenatal visit. Prevention is by maintaining a healthy weight and exercising before pregnancy. Gestational diabetes is treated with a diabetic diet, exercise, and possibly insulin injections. Most women are able to manage their blood sugar with a diet and exercise. Blood sugar testing among those
Blood test may identify gestational diabetes risk in first trimester [SEP] Gestational diabetes // tests at some point during their pregnancy. The sensitivity of glucosuria for GDM in the first 2 trimesters is only around 10% and the positive predictive value is around 20%. A 2015 review found that when done during pregnancy moderate physical exercise is effective for the prevention of gestational diabetes. A 2014 review however did not find a significant effect. Diet and physical activity interventions designed to prevent excessive gestational weight gain reduce the rates of gestational diabetes. However, the impact of these interventions varies with the body-mass index of the person as well as with the region in which
Blood test may identify gestational diabetes risk in first trimester [SEP] Gestational diabetes // uses a 75 g glucose load and measures the blood glucose levels before and after 1 and 2 hours, using the same reference values. This test will identify fewer women who are at risk, and there is only a weak concordance (agreement rate) between this test and a 3-hour 100 g test. The glucose values used to detect gestational diabetes were first determined by O'Sullivan and Mahan (1964) in a retrospective cohort study (using a 100 grams of glucose OGTT) designed to detect risk of developing type 2 diabetes in the future. The values were set using whole blood and
Blood test may identify gestational diabetes risk in first trimester [SEP] Gestational diabetes // Glucose Tolerance Test, according to Carpenter and Coustan: Criteria for diagnosis of gestational diabetes according to National Diabetes Data Group: Classical risk factors for developing gestational diabetes are: In addition to this, statistics show a double risk of GDM in smokers. Polycystic ovarian syndrome is also a risk factor, although relevant evidence remains controversial. Some studies have looked at more controversial potential risk factors, such as short stature. About 40–60% of women with GDM have no demonstrable risk factor; for this reason many advocate to screen all women. Typically, women with GDM exhibit no symptoms (another reason for universal screening),
Blood test may identify gestational diabetes risk in first trimester [SEP] Gestational diabetes // OGTT if the tests are outside normal limits. If there is a high suspicion, a woman may be tested earlier. In the United States, most obstetricians prefer universal screening with a screening glucose challenge test. In the United Kingdom, obstetric units often rely on risk factors and a random blood glucose test. The American Diabetes Association and the Society of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists of Canada recommend routine screening unless the woman is low risk (this means the woman must be younger than 25 years and have a body mass index less than 27, with no personal, ethnic or family risk
Blood test may identify gestational diabetes risk in first trimester [SEP] Gestational diabetes // blood glucose level is determined when fasting, 2 hours after a meal, or simply at any random time. In contrast, challenge tests involve drinking a glucose solution and measuring glucose concentration thereafter in the blood; in diabetes, they tend to remain high. The glucose solution has a very sweet taste which some women find unpleasant; sometimes, therefore, artificial flavours are added. Some women may experience nausea during the test, and more so with higher glucose levels. There is currently not enough research to show which way is best at diagnosing gestational diabetes. Routine screening of women with a glucose challenge
Blood test may identify gestational diabetes risk in first trimester [SEP] Gestational diabetes // what target blood sugar levels should be for women with gestational diabetes and targets recommended to women vary around the world. Target ranges advised by the Australasian Diabetes in Pregnancy Society are as follows: Regular blood samples can be used to determine HbA1c levels, which give an idea of glucose control over a longer time period. Research suggests a possible benefit of breastfeeding to reduce the risk of diabetes and related risks for both mother and child. If monitoring reveals failing control of glucose levels with these measures, or if there is evidence of complications like excessive fetal growth, treatment
U.S. ‘wasted’ months before preparing for virus pandemic. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic // much to prepare for the current H1N1 flu outbreak, noting that after H5N1 emerged in Asia, ultimately killing about 60% of the few hundred people infected by it over the years, many countries took steps to try to prevent any similar crisis from spreading further. The CDC and other U.S. governmental agencies used the summer lull to take stock of the United States' response to H1N1 flu and attempt to patch any gaps in the public health safety net before flu season started in early autumn. Preparations included planning a second influenza vaccination program in addition to that for seasonal
U.S. ‘wasted’ months before preparing for virus pandemic. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic // only a few days without treatment. Officials also urged communities, businesses and individuals to make contingency plans for possible school closures, multiple employee absences for illness, surges of patients in hospitals and other effects of potentially widespread outbreaks. In February 2010, the CDC's Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices voted for "universal" flu vaccination in the U.S. to include all people over six months of age. The 2010–2011 vaccine will protect against the 2009 H1N1 pandemic virus and two other flu viruses. On 27 April 2009, the European Union health commissioner advised Europeans to postpone nonessential travel to the United States
U.S. ‘wasted’ months before preparing for virus pandemic. [SEP] Influenza pandemic // the current portal: Pandemic Flu Search. On 26 August 2004, Secretary of Health and Human Services, Tommy Thompson released a draft Pandemic Influenza Response and Preparedness Plan, which outlined a coordinated national strategy to prepare for and respond to an influenza pandemic. Public comments were accepted for 60 days. In a speech before the United Nations General Assembly on 14 September 2005, President George W. Bush announced the creation of the International Partnership on Avian and Pandemic Influenza. The Partnership brings together nations and international organizations to improve global readiness by: On 5 October 2005, Democratic Senators Harry Reid, Evan
U.S. ‘wasted’ months before preparing for virus pandemic. [SEP] Pandemic H1N1/09 virus // contaminated with the virus and then touching one's eyes, nose or mouth. In 2009, the WHO reported that H1N1/09 seemed to be more contagious than seasonal flu. However, a New England Journal of Medicine report stated that the transmissibility of the 2009 H1N1 influenza virus in households was lower than that seen in past pandemics. The US CDC recommended that people should wait at least a day after their fever subsides (usually 3–4 days after the onset of symptoms) before resuming normal activities, but it has been found that they can continue to shed virus for several days after that.
U.S. ‘wasted’ months before preparing for virus pandemic. [SEP] Influenza pandemic // activity spread over months. Once the level of disease activity drops, a critical communications task will be to balance this information with the possibility of another wave. Pandemic waves can be separated by months and an immediate "at-ease" signal may be premature. In the post-pandemic period, influenza disease activity will have returned to levels normally seen for seasonal influenza. It is expected that the pandemic virus will behave as a seasonal influenza A virus. At this stage, it is important to maintain surveillance and update pandemic preparedness and response plans accordingly. An intensive phase of recovery and evaluation may be
U.S. ‘wasted’ months before preparing for virus pandemic. [SEP] Swine influenza // against the virus within about 10 days. In the aftermath of the 2009 pandemic, several studies were conducted to see who received influenza vaccines. These studies show that whites are much more likely to be vaccinated for seasonal influenza and for the H1N1 strain than African Americans This could be due to several factors. Historically, there has been mistrust of vaccines and of the medical community from African Americans. Many African Americans do not believe vaccines or doctors to be effective. This mistrust stems from the exploitation of the African American communities during studies like the Tuskegee study. Additionally, vaccines
U.S. ‘wasted’ months before preparing for virus pandemic. [SEP] 2009 Flu pandemic in North America // or preventing additional cases and releases money for more antiviral drugs," including the transfer of approximately 12 million influenza medications from a federal stockpile to states. The U.S. plans followed a guidebook developed over the past five years to fight a pandemic flu such as H5N1. The situation developed rapidly with the White House initially looking into the matter on April 24 according to press releases, but rapidly adopting a serious stance as the WHO and CDC issued stronger recommendations. On April 29, the US suffered its first confirmed death of swine flu. On April 28, the Centers for Disease
U.S. ‘wasted’ months before preparing for virus pandemic. [SEP] World Health Organization // involving the H1N1 influenza virus was declared by the then Director-General Margaret Chan in April 2009. Margret Chan declared in 2010 that the H1N1 has moved into the post-pandemic period. By the post-pandemic period critics claimed the WHO had exaggerated the danger, spreading "fear and confusion" rather than "immediate information". Industry experts countered that the 2009 pandemic had led to "unprecedented collaboration between global health authorities, scientists and manufacturers, resulting in the most comprehensive pandemic response ever undertaken, with a number of vaccines approved for use three months after the pandemic declaration. This response was only possible because of the
U.S. ‘wasted’ months before preparing for virus pandemic. [SEP] Pandemic H1N1/09 virus // (WHO) Director-General Margaret Chan said that the virus must be closely monitored in the southern hemisphere, as it could mix with ordinary seasonal influenza and change in unpredictable ways. Experts writing in the July issue of "The New England Journal of Medicine" note that historically, pandemic viruses have evolved between seasons, and the current strain may become more severe or transmissible in the coming months. They therefore stress the importance of international cooperation to engage in proper surveillance to help monitor changes in the virus's behavior, which will aid in both "vaccine targeting" and interpreting illness patterns in the fall
U.S. ‘wasted’ months before preparing for virus pandemic. [SEP] Influenza pandemic // pandemic phases; and recommended actions for before, during, and after a pandemic. "[E]fforts by the federal government to prepare for pandemic influenza at the national level include a $100 million DHHS initiative in 2003 to build U.S. vaccine production. Several agencies within Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS) – including the Office of the Secretary, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), CDC, and the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID) – are in the process of working with vaccine manufacturers to facilitate production of pilot vaccine lots for both H5N1 and H9N2 strains as well as contracting
An habitual alcohol abuser lost his penis to frostbite after a drunken sexual encounter with a snowman. [SEP] Frostbite // lost both legs below the knee to frostbite after being stranded on Mount Washington in a blizzard. In addition, many Mount Everest explorers have lost digits and limbs to frostbite. Beck Weathers, a survivor of the 1996 Mount Everest disaster, lost his nose and hands to frostbite. In 1999, Scottish mountaineer, Jamie Andrew had all four limbs amputated due to sepsis from frostbite sustained climbing the Mont Blanc massif. Evidence is insufficient to determine whether or not hyperbaric oxygen therapy as an adjunctive treatment can assist in tissue salvage. Cases have been reported, but no randomized control trial has been
An habitual alcohol abuser lost his penis to frostbite after a drunken sexual encounter with a snowman. [SEP] Haunted (Palahniuk novel) // of a young boy who, having heard that it enhances masturbatory pleasure, inserts a thin stick of candle wax into his urethra. The wax unexpectedly slips back into the boy's bladder, thereby blocking his urine flow and causing blood to seep from his penis. Because he requires expensive surgery, his parents are forced to pay to repair his bladder with the boy's college savings. Finally, the narrator explains how he himself suffered a sexual injury, when sitting on the water-intake valve at the bottom of his home swimming pool while masturbating. While swimming down to the bottom of the pool
An habitual alcohol abuser lost his penis to frostbite after a drunken sexual encounter with a snowman. [SEP] Heavy Traffic // gets free drinks from the female black bartender, Carole, in exchange for sketches of the somewhat annoying Shorty, Carole's violent, legless bouncer devotee. One of the regular customers at the bar, a nymphomaniac transvestite named Snowflake, gets beaten up by a tough drunk hard-hat who has only just realized that Snowflake is a man in drag and not a beautiful woman. Snowflake loves it, but the drunk causes property damage. Shorty throws the drunk out and the bar's white manager abusively confronts Carole over this. Fed up with her manager, Carole quits. Shorty offers to let Carole stay at his
An habitual alcohol abuser lost his penis to frostbite after a drunken sexual encounter with a snowman. [SEP] Snowballing (sexual practice) // or other partners may then exchange the fluid several times, causing its volume to increase (hence "snowballing"). Some heterosexual men are uncomfortable with the practice. A somewhat similar practice in heterosexual pornography is cum swapping, in which a woman passes semen from her mouth into that of another woman. Snowballing (sexual practice) Snowballing or snowdropping is the human sexual practice in which one person takes someone else's semen into his or her mouth and then passes it to the mouth of another, usually through kissing. The term was originally used only by gay and bisexual men. Researchers who surveyed over
An habitual alcohol abuser lost his penis to frostbite after a drunken sexual encounter with a snowman. [SEP] Neknominate // man thought to have downed a pint of vodka, and a London hostel worker who reportedly mixed an entire bottle of white wine with a quarter bottle of whisky, a small bottle of vodka and a can of lager. In the latter case, the victim's nominator was interviewed by police, but it was ruled an accidental death without coercion. In Ireland, the group Mature Enjoyment of Alcohol in Society expressed concern that posting the videos could "appeal to and be taken up by vulnerable younger drinkers". Alcohol Action Ireland also shared concerns about the game. In February 2014, a group
An habitual alcohol abuser lost his penis to frostbite after a drunken sexual encounter with a snowman. [SEP] Old King Clancy // the nature of the collection, and the sex act. For three days, everyone continually offers guesses based on fictitious "Canadian sex acts." They finally give up, but Robin reveals that Canadian wrestler "The Frozen Snowshoe" (a fictional person, whom none of Robin's friends have heard of) invited her to see his collection of Harvey's trays (indistinguishable orange trays that are not considered collectors' items), and suggested she perform an "Old King Clancy" (which involves maple syrup). Everyone is disappointed by the obscurity of every element of the story. A flashback to 2002 shows that it was really The Frozen Snowshoe
An habitual alcohol abuser lost his penis to frostbite after a drunken sexual encounter with a snowman. [SEP] Dennis Nilsen // served as a private. In this deployment, Nilsen began to increase his intake of alcohol. He described himself and his colleagues as a "hard-working, boozy lot"; his colleagues recalled he often drank to excess in order to ease his shyness. On one occasion, Nilsen and a German youth drank themselves into a stupor. When Nilsen awoke, he found himself on the floor of the German youth's flat. No sexual activity had occurred, but this incident fuelled Nilsen's fantasies: he began to develop sexual fantasies which initially involved his sexual partner — invariably a young, slender male — being completely passive.
An habitual alcohol abuser lost his penis to frostbite after a drunken sexual encounter with a snowman. [SEP] The A-Tom-Inable Snowman // to an approaching giant snowball with Tom inside. After the ball lands with Tom inside flat, the St. Bernard then attempts to save the flattened cat with a keg of brandy. After he left the cat standing, Tom fell and "shattered" into pieces. However, he is then reconstructed by the St. Bernard with the brandy. The alcohol makes Tom drunk. He starts seeing hallucinations, like five Jerrys, which he has to count in between hiccups. He later sees hallucinations of a hole and he seems to see countless holes. Tom hiccups to the real hole, causing him to get frozen
An habitual alcohol abuser lost his penis to frostbite after a drunken sexual encounter with a snowman. [SEP] Bathhouse: The Musical! // a school friend who impressed everyone with his penis under the shower after sport practice; Teddy gives a conference about the "seven named penile shapes" that were identified by specialists, and Billy evokes a former boyfriend who used to be horny when he lied. And if you admit that "penis are like snowflakes, then every day is Christmas at the baths", and all four of them sing about gay sex and End-of-Year Festivities, parodying Christmas carols.("Penises are like Snowflakes / Christmas at the Baths")<br> The voice then suggests that one might find a "last package in the showers". The boys
An habitual alcohol abuser lost his penis to frostbite after a drunken sexual encounter with a snowman. [SEP] Dennis Nilsen // These fantasies gradually evolved into his partner being unconscious or dead. On several occasions, Nilsen also made tentative efforts to have his own prone body sexually interfered with by one of his colleagues. In these instances, whenever he and his colleagues drank to excess, he pretended he was inebriated in the hope one of his colleagues would make sexual use of his supposedly unconscious body. After two years' deployment, Nilsen returned to Aldershot, where he passed his official catering exam before being deployed to serve as a cook for the British Army in Norway. In 1967, he was deployed to
Ebola is real, Congo president tells skeptical population. [SEP] 2017 Democratic Republic of the Congo Ebola virus outbreak // DRC Minister of Public Health, Dr Oly Ilunga Kalenga, declared that the country had passed a 42-day period with no new recorded cases, and therefore the outbreak was over. A subsequent outbreak of Ebola was declared by WHO on 8 May 2018, in the northwest Province of Équateur. The first "situation report" from the WHO on 15 May 2017 listed 19 suspected cases and 3 deaths. The first person to request treatment was a 39-year-old male. On 16 May, the WHO indicated that there had been 21 suspected cases and 3 deaths. Approximately 400 additional individuals were being monitored in
Ebola is real, Congo president tells skeptical population. [SEP] 2017 Democratic Republic of the Congo Ebola virus outbreak // 83% of simulated scenarios predict no further cases in the next 30 days." According to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, "Ebola ... is a rare and deadly disease caused by infection with one of the Ebola virus species. Ebola can cause disease in humans and nonhuman primates (monkeys, gorillas, and chimpanzees)." Ebola was first identified in 1976 near the Ebola River in the DRC. More than 11,300 people died in the 2013 to 2016 Ebola outbreak in West Africa. According to the WHO's "Global Health Observatory", the DRC's population in 2015 was 77,267,000. On 1 July 2017,
Ebola is real, Congo president tells skeptical population. [SEP] 2014 Democratic Republic of the Congo Ebola virus outbreak // since the last reported case tested negative for the second time and was discharged. It was stated that the DRC would therefore be declared free of Ebola disease 42 days after the date of the second negative test if no new cases were reported. The outbreak was declared over on 15 November 2014. In October 2014, it was reported that more recent findings suggested that there may have been several previous cases. The husband of the woman that was believed to have been the index case told an investigation team that shortly before she became ill she had visited two
Ebola is real, Congo president tells skeptical population. [SEP] 2018 Équateur province Ebola outbreak // Health Emergency of International Concern; if the outbreak expands or spreads internationally, the committee will reassess the situation. US President Donald Trump has advocated rescinding Ebola funding and most financing for State Department emergency responses. National Security Advisor John Bolton removed the National Security Council’s health security chief on the day that the Ebola outbreak was declared, shutting down the entire epidemic prevention office.The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention says “about five” of its staff advise the Congolese government. CDC presence appears to be smaller than West African countries'. The U.S. Agency for International Development promised $1 million
Ebola is real, Congo president tells skeptical population. [SEP] Ebola virus disease // died, and people in Yambuku began to panic. The country's Minister of Health and Zaire President Mobutu Sese Seko declared the entire region, including Yambuku and the country's capital, Kinshasa, a quarantine zone. No-one was permitted to enter or leave the area, and roads, waterways, and airfields were placed under martial law. Schools, businesses and social organizations were closed. Researchers from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), including Peter Piot, co-discoverer of Ebola, later arrived to assess the effects of the outbreak, observing that "the whole region was in panic." Piot concluded that Belgian nuns had inadvertently started
Ebola is real, Congo president tells skeptical population. [SEP] Ebola virus epidemic in Sierra Leone // severe shortages of protective supplies, with some nurses having to wear street clothes. David Tam-Baryoh, a radio journalist, was held for 11 days when he and a talk show guest, an opposition party spokesperson, criticised how President Ernest Bai Koroma handled the Ebola outbreak in a live broadcast on 1 November 2014. The weekly show "Monologue" was taken off-air mid-show from the independently run Citizen FM. He was arrested on 3 November and sent to the Pademba Road jail, after an executive order was signed by the president. On 14 November Sierra Leone's Deputy Information Minister Theo Nicol gave a
Ebola is real, Congo president tells skeptical population. [SEP] 2018 Équateur province Ebola outbreak // were suspected of having died from EVD near the town of Bikoro in the Province of Équateur. The World Health Organization declared the outbreak after two people were confirmed as having the disease. On 17 May, the virus was confirmed to have spread to the inland port city of Mbandaka, causing the WHO to raise its assessment of the national risk level to "very high", but not yet to constitute an international public health emergency. The WHO declared the outbreak over on July 24. Subsequent to this, 2018 Kivu Democratic Republic of the Congo Ebola virus outbreak was confirmed in
Ebola is real, Congo president tells skeptical population. [SEP] 2017 Democratic Republic of the Congo Ebola virus outbreak // is attempting to obtain and review Rwanda's public health rationale and relevant scientific information for implementing these measures. The sub-type "Zaire ebolavirus" has been confirmed in the current outbreak, from the family Filoviridae. It is a single stranded RNA virus, with a 60-90 percent mortality rate (the highest among the strains). An unusually high mortality has been reported in the local pig population. An investigation into potential causes is being considered. Multiple documented outbreaks of Ebola virus disease have occurred in the DRC, with the first being the 1976 outbreak. The virus took its name from the Ebola River near
Ebola is real, Congo president tells skeptical population. [SEP] 2014 Democratic Republic of the Congo Ebola virus outbreak // suspected or likely cases. On 9 September, the WHO raised the number of cases to 62 and the death toll to 35 from possible or confirmed Ebola cases. Included in this number were 9 health-care workers with 7 deaths among them. In total, 386 contacts were listed and 239 contacts were being followed. The outbreak was still contained in Jeera county in the Boende region. As of 28 October, there had been 66 cases reported. In total, 49 deaths had been reported, including eight among health care workers. No new reported contacts were being followed and twenty days had passed
Ebola is real, Congo president tells skeptical population. [SEP] Ebola virus epidemic in Sierra Leone // tested positive for Ebola. The last district in Sierra Leone untouched by the Ebola virus declared Ebola cases. According to Abdul Sesay, a local health official, 15 suspected deaths with 2 confirmed cases of the deadly disease were reported on 16 October in the village of Fakonya. The village is 60 miles from the town of Kabala in the center of the mountainous region of the Koinadugu district. This was the last district free from the virus in Sierra Leone. All of the districts in this country had then confirmed cases of Ebola. In late October 2014, the United Kingdom
New breast cancer screening guidelines at odds with Congress [SEP] Cancer prevention // - Reagan signs Medicare Catastrophic Coverage Act (mammography screenings) 1989 - MB-CCOP (minority-based community clinical oncology program) In the 1990s, many chemopreventative clinical trials began recruiting. Often, these studies lasted for more than a decade, so their results would be released in the early 2000s. 1991 - Chemoprevention (synthetic and natural) studies, DCPC + Produce for Better Health Foundation begins 5-A-Day message (fruit and veggie daily servings), ASSIST (smoking) initiative 1992 - Breast Cancer Prevention Trial (BCPT) 1993 - NCI mammography guidelines are dropped (controversy?), prostate lung colorectal, and ovarian cancer screening trial begins (PLCO), FOBT test for CRC mortality,
New breast cancer screening guidelines at odds with Congress [SEP] United States Preventive Services Task Force // The Task Force made no recommendation about routine mammography to screen asymptomatic women aged 40 to 49 years for breast cancer. Patients in this age group should be educated about the risks and benefits of screening, and the decision whether to screen or not should be based on the individual situation and preferences. The old advice was based on "weak" evidence for this age group. The new advice is based on improved scientific evidence about the benefits and harms associated with mammography and is consistent with recommendations by the World Health Organization and other major medical bodies. Their recommendation against
New breast cancer screening guidelines at odds with Congress [SEP] American Cancer Society Cancer Action Network // has served over 3.9 million women, the program serves less than one in five eligible women at the current funding levels. Some states have been forced to reject people who would be eligible for free mammograms and Pap smears due to state budget cuts. In 2009, 14 states cut budgets for free cancer screenings: Colorado, Minnesota, Connecticut, South Carolina, Utah, Missouri, Washington, Ohio, Massachusetts, Arkansas, Montana, Illinois, Pennsylvania, and Alabama. In 2006, Senators Barbara Mikulski and Kay Bailey Hutchison introduced a bill, supported by ACS CAN, to allow for greater program flexibility and a funding increase of $45 million allowing
New breast cancer screening guidelines at odds with Congress [SEP] United States Preventive Services Task Force // as Donna Sweet, the former chair of the American College of Physicians, who currently serves on its Clinical Efficacy Assessment Subcommittee. The USPSTF recommendation, which focuses solely on clinical effectiveness without regard to cost, formally reduces the grade given for evidence quality from "B" to "C" (limited evidence prevents a one-size-fits-all recommendation) for routine mammograms in women under the age of 50. With a grade C recommendation, physicians are required to consider additional factors, such as the individual woman's personal risk of breast cancer. Pending health care legislation would require insurance companies to cover any and all preventive services that
New breast cancer screening guidelines at odds with Congress [SEP] United States Preventive Services Task Force // routine, suspicion-less mammograms for younger women does not change the advice for screening women at above-average risk for developing breast cancer or for testing women who have a suspicious lump or any other symptoms that might be related to breast cancer. The change in the recommendation for younger women has been criticized by some physicians and cancer advocacy groups, such as Otis Brawley, the chief medical officer for the American Cancer Society,<ref."Task force opposes routine mammograms for women age 40-49" - Danielle Dellorto, CNN Medical Producer</ref> and praised by physicians and medical organizations that support individualized and evidence-based medicine, such
New breast cancer screening guidelines at odds with Congress [SEP] Alejandra Campoverdi // that she plans to have a preventive double mastectomy. Campoverdi lost both her great-grandmother and grandmother to breast cancer, and her mother and aunt have also battled the disease. Campoverdi made the protection of access to affordable healthcare and the Affordable Care Act a focus of her congressional campaign. Two days after she went public with her diagnosis, she released a television ad in which she stated “If Donald Trump wants to have a conversation about women’s bodies, let’s start with mine.” Campoverdi chose to speak publicly about her personal health in an effort to bring attention to the stakes
New breast cancer screening guidelines at odds with Congress [SEP] United States Preventive Services Task Force // receive an "A" or "B" grade, but permit them to use discretion on preventive services that receive a worse grade. The Vitter amendment to the Mikulski amendment to pending legislation in the U.S. Senate instructs insurers to disregard the task force's recommendation against frequent routine mammograms in asymptomatic younger women, and requires them to provide free annual mammograms, even for low-risk women, based on the outdated 2002 report. This proposal is not yet law and may change. The efforts by politicians to reject the committee's scientific findings have been condemned as an example of unwarranted political interference in scientific research.
New breast cancer screening guidelines at odds with Congress [SEP] United States Preventive Services Task Force // regarding net benefit. Levels of certainty vary from high to low according to the evidence. The USPSTF has evaluated many interventions for prevention and found several have an expected net benefit in the general population. In 2009, the USPSTF updated its advice for screening mammograms. Screening mammograms, or routine mammograms, are X-rays given to apparently healthy women with no symptoms or evidence of breast cancer in the hope of detecting the disease in an early, easily treatable stage. The advice about using mammography in the presence of symptoms (such as a lump in the breast that can be felt) is
New breast cancer screening guidelines at odds with Congress [SEP] Breast cancer screening // controversial as it may not reduce all-cause mortality and for causing harms through unnecessary treatments and medical procedures. Many national organizations recommend it for most older women. In the United States screening mammography women at normal risk for breast cancer, is only recommended every two years in women between the ages of 50 and 74. Several tools are available to help target breast cancer screening to older women with longer life expectancies. Similar imaging studies can be performed with magnetic resonance imaging but evidence is lacking. Earlier, more aggressive, and more frequent screening is recommended for women at particularly high
New breast cancer screening guidelines at odds with Congress [SEP] National Breast Cancer Coalition // legislative priorities. Medicare coverage of routine care costs associated with clinical trials helps to encourage consumer participation in clinical trials, which are the best means of finding the cause, cure and prevention of breast cancer. On February 8, 2000, President Clinton signed an Executive Order banning genetic discrimination in the federal workplace. NBCC worked tirelessly towards enactment of comprehensible, enforceable genetic non-discrimination protections in health insurance and employment. NBCC successfully worked with the Administration to cover individuals in the federal workplace through the Executive Order. Since 1998, NBCC has released a Congressional Record of Support. This guide tracks every current
A video investigation showed that Planned Parenthood lies about providing prenatal care. [SEP] Planned Parenthood 2015 undercover videos controversy // reporter for "The Wall Street Journal". The CMP disputed this finding, attributing the alterations to the editing out of "bathroom breaks and waiting periods." CMP continues to allege that the videos provide evidence that abortion providers profit from the sale of donated tissue. The videos attracted widespread media coverage, and after the release of the first video, conservative Congressional lawmakers singled out Planned Parenthood and began to push bills that would strip the organization of federal family planning funding. No such attempts by Congress to cut federal family planning money from Planned Parenthood have become law. Conservative politicians in several
A video investigation showed that Planned Parenthood lies about providing prenatal care. [SEP] Live Action (organization) // in February 2011 for undercover videos at multiple Planned Parenthood affiliates. The videos show Planned Parenthood staff counseling an investigator posing as a pimp on how to procure clandestine abortions and STD testing for his underage sex workers. According to spokespeople at Planned Parenthood, the organization reported the activities of the individuals involved to the Federal Bureau of Investigation before the videos were made public. Neither the Justice Department nor the FBI would confirm that an investigation was launched. After the video releases, Planned Parenthood denied Live Action's allegations that they condone or support sexual slavery and statutory rape. They
A video investigation showed that Planned Parenthood lies about providing prenatal care. [SEP] Planned Parenthood 2015 undercover videos controversy // medical practices of abortion service providers and the business practices of the procurement organizations who sell baby body parts." Several Republican presidential candidates repeated CMP's allegations that PPFA used tissue donation as a way to profit from abortion. Rick Perry said "The video showing a Planned Parenthood employee selling the body parts of aborted children is a disturbing reminder of the organization's penchant for profiting off the tragedy of a destroyed human life", and cited the videos as the reason why Planned Parenthood should lose federal funding. Republican presidential candidate Rand Paul posted on Twitter "...a video showing Planned Parenthood's
A video investigation showed that Planned Parenthood lies about providing prenatal care. [SEP] Planned Parenthood 2015 undercover videos controversy // abortions without the proper licenses, and that one clinic was failing to keep proper logs relating to fetal remains. Planned Parenthood rejected the findings. Texas Governor Greg Abbott announced an investigation into practices in Texas, and said that the state would "expand its investigation" after the release of the second video, and Missouri Attorney General Chris Koster announced that his office would investigate Planned Parenthood for any potential wrongdoing at its clinics in that state. Investigations were also launched in Ohio, Kansas, Georgia, South Carolina, Mississippi, and Louisiana, with calls for the U.S. Justice Department to investigate. At the local
A video investigation showed that Planned Parenthood lies about providing prenatal care. [SEP] Planned Parenthood 2015 undercover videos controversy // Planned Parenthood 2015 undercover videos controversy In 2015, an anti-abortion organization named the Center for Medical Progress (CMP) released several videos that had been secretly recorded. Members of the CMP posed as representatives of a biotechnology company in order to gain access to both meetings with abortion providers and abortion facilities. The videos showed how abortion providers made fetal tissue available to researchers, although no problems were found with the legality of the process. <section begin="lead" />All of the videos were found to be altered, according to analysis by Fusion GPS and its co-founder Glenn R. Simpson, a former investigative
A video investigation showed that Planned Parenthood lies about providing prenatal care. [SEP] Planned Parenthood 2015 undercover videos controversy // to see whether the statements made in the videos are consistent with existing federal law. On July 30, 2015, former Indiana Governor Mike Pence announced that the state's investigation did not find any evidence of wrongdoing in Planned Parenthood's handling of fetal tissue. In Massachusetts, where there is no fetal tissue and organ donation program, Attorney General Maura Healey found that aborted fetuses are disposed of properly in a report that "voiced strong support for" Planned Parenthood. In Florida, investigators from the Agency for Health Care Administration found on July 31, 2015 that three Planned Parenthood clinics were performing second-trimester
A video investigation showed that Planned Parenthood lies about providing prenatal care. [SEP] Planned Parenthood 2015 undercover videos controversy // the door to the backroom where [the developing infant "in utero"] is destroyed". Cecile Richards, the president of Planned Parenthood, "personally [apologized] for the staff member's tone and statements", saying the videos were "unacceptable". Dawn Laguens, executive vice president of PPFA, stated: "The latest [fifth] tape has at least 20 substantial and unexplained edits. Previous tapes released by this extremist group were 'heavily edited' in order to distort what was actually said. These videos are intended to shock and deceive the public." In a letter to a Congressional committee, PPFA wrote: "A group of extremists who have intimidated women and
A video investigation showed that Planned Parenthood lies about providing prenatal care. [SEP] Planned Parenthood 2015 undercover videos controversy // (FBI) for investigation. In the fall of 2017, the FBI made a request to the Senate Judiciary Committee for access to un-redacted comments obtained from abortion providers. Planned Parenthood 2015 undercover videos controversy In 2015, an anti-abortion organization named the Center for Medical Progress (CMP) released several videos that had been secretly recorded. Members of the CMP posed as representatives of a biotechnology company in order to gain access to both meetings with abortion providers and abortion facilities. The videos showed how abortion providers made fetal tissue available to researchers, although no problems were found with the legality of the
A video investigation showed that Planned Parenthood lies about providing prenatal care. [SEP] Planned Parenthood 2015 undercover videos controversy // doctors for yearsin their agenda to ban abortion completelyare not 'documenting' misdeeds; they are trying to create them, quite unsuccessfully." In response to Planned Parenthood, CMP stated that "we look forward to showing the public more clear evidence that Planned Parenthood routinely profits from the sale of baby parts and changes the abortion procedures it uses on pregnant women in order to do so". Responding to the videos and to CMP's claims, three different Congressional committees, and officials in a number of states, launched investigations into Planned Parenthood's tissue collection activities. One Congressional committee asked to interview the filmed representatives
A video investigation showed that Planned Parenthood lies about providing prenatal care. [SEP] Planned Parenthood 2015 undercover videos controversy // motivated attacks. The CMP alleges that the videos show Planned Parenthood officials offering to make adjustments in the techniques used in abortions in order to acquire more intact fetal tissues and organs. Federal law prohibits changing from one abortion procedure to another procedure in order to obtain human tissue for medical research, as well as for delivering intact fetuses. Planned Parenthood spokespeople have responded to CMP's allegations by stating that the organization follows "all lawsperiod," and that accusations made in CMP's videos "are false". In the sixth video, Holly O'Donnell, a pro-life former StemExpress technician, says that she was told
Wyeth Wins U.S. OK to Sell Pristiq for Depression. [SEP] Fred Hassan // National Institutes of Health, to lead its research and development team. Wyeth entered into the biotechnology field by buying Genetics Institute in 1991. The company also acquired A.H. Robins in 1989 and American Cyanamid in 1994 to strengthen its global operations. Important billion dollar innovations including Effexor (anti-depressant), Enbrel (anti-inflammatory) and Prevnar (vaccine) came out of these strengthened operations. In 1997, Hassan was asked to take over as CEO of the failing merger of Pharmacia and Upjohn (PNU). As CEO of PNU, Hassan made many changes, including moving its headquarters from the UK to New Jersey. Fifteen months after taking
Wyeth Wins U.S. OK to Sell Pristiq for Depression. [SEP] Wyeth // for these abuses. Wyeth was sued for its marketing of Prempro, a hormone replacement therapy, which was implicated in the cancers of 14,000 patients. Wyeth was particularly criticised by observers for its use of 'ghostwriters' to put their names to research papers that Wyeth had paid a third party, DesignWrite, to prepare. The drug combination fenfluramine/phentermine, usually called "fen-phen," was an anti-obesity treatment. Fenfluramine was marketed by Wyeth as Pondimin, but was shown to cause potentially fatal pulmonary hypertension and heart valve problems. Wyeth Wyeth was a pharmaceutical company purchased by Pfizer in 2009. The company was founded in Philadelphia,
Wyeth Wins U.S. OK to Sell Pristiq for Depression. [SEP] Desvenlafaxine // was made available in the US. On February 4, 2009, Health Canada approved use of desvenlafaxine for treatment of depression. Pristiq is now available in Canadian pharmacies. In 2008, Wyeth withdrew its application for Ellefore, the product under review for treatment of major depressive disorder in the European Union. In 2012, Pfizer received authorization in Spain to market Pristiq for the disorder in 50 mg and 100 mg tablets. Desvenlafaxine is classified as a schedule 4 (prescription only) drug in Australia. It was listed on the PBS (Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme) in 2008 for the treatment of MDD (Major Depressive Disorders).
Wyeth Wins U.S. OK to Sell Pristiq for Depression. [SEP] Wyeth // Wyeth's Kolynos brand of toothpaste. In 1929, Stuart Wyeth died and left controlling interest to Harvard University. In 1930, Wyeth purchased Anacin, a product for tension headaches which quickly became the company's flagship product. One year later, Harvard sold Wyeth to American Home Products (AHP) for US$2.9 million. In 1935, Alvin G. Brush, a Certified Public Accountant, became CEO of the organization and served for 30 years. Under Brush's leadership, 34 new companies were acquired in 15 years, including Chef Boyardee and the "S.M.A. Corporation", a pharmaceutical firm specializing in infant formulas. Wyeth also made its first licensing deal, acquiring
Wyeth Wins U.S. OK to Sell Pristiq for Depression. [SEP] Wyeth // a large-scale clinical trial for hormone replacement therapy showed that long-term use of progestin and estrogen may increase the risk of strokes, heart attacks, blood clots, and breast cancer. Following these results, Wyeth experienced a significant decline in its sales of Premarin, Prempro (conjugated equine estrogens), and related hormones, from over $2 billion in 2002 to just over $1 billion in 2006. The results from the study were significant enough that Wyeth terminated the trials early due to a fear that their participants may be at risk. Wyeth, as a corporation, filed a "citizens' complaint" with the US FDA on
Wyeth Wins U.S. OK to Sell Pristiq for Depression. [SEP] Wyeth // an antibiotic for arthritis vaccine research. In 1941, the US entered World War II, and AHP shipped typical wartime drugs such as sulfa bacteriostatics, blood plasma, typhus vaccine, quinine, and atabrine tablets. Wyeth was later rewarded for its contribution to the war effort. During this time, Wyeth launched its penicillin research facility with G. Raymond Rettew. In 1943, Wyeth purchased "G. Washington Coffee Refining Company", an instant coffee company created by George Washington. In 1943, AHP merged with "Ayerst, McKenna and Harrison, Ltd." of Canada. With this merger came Premarin, the world's first conjugated estrogen medicine, which was a flagship
Wyeth Wins U.S. OK to Sell Pristiq for Depression. [SEP] Wyeth // Officer effective on January 1, 2008. During June 2009, an Arkansas federal judge granted public access to evidence that Wyeth Pharmaceuticals "ghostwrote" medical articles regarding its hormone therapy drug Prempro. Along with "The New York Times", PLoS Medicine, represented by the law firm Public Justice, had sought to intervene in a court case of women bringing an action in relation to Prempro and other hormone therapy drugs, in order to unseal papers that allegedly showed that Wyeth failed to disclose its role in preparing medical journal articles promoting Prempro and in recruiting academic authors to put their names on the
Wyeth Wins U.S. OK to Sell Pristiq for Depression. [SEP] Wyeth // and merging it into its Whitehall unit to establish its Whitehall-Robins Division. In 1990, Reckitt & Colman (now Reckitt Benckiser) acquired Boyle-Midway from American Home Products. After a dedication of the food business, the PAM trademark becomes part of American Home Foods. Premarin became the most prescribed drug in the US in 1993. Effexor (venlafaxine HCl), the first serotonin-noradrenaline reuptake inhibitor (SNRI), is introduced for the treatment of clinical depression and is later indicated for generalized anxiety disorder and social anxiety disorder. In 1993, AHP founded the "Women's Health Research Institute", the only institute in the pharmaceutical industry entirely dedicated
Wyeth Wins U.S. OK to Sell Pristiq for Depression. [SEP] Peter Rost (doctor) // consultant. Rost worked at medical advertising agencies prior to working for pharmaceutical companies. Rost started working at Wyeth in approximately 1992; seven years after joining Wyeth, he was promoted to head of Wyeth-Lederle Nordiska, Wyeth's Scandinavian subsidiary. Rost has said that he doubled sales during his tenure. He became concerned about Wyeth's accounting practices and informed upper management of his concerns. Shortly thereafter, he was transferred from Sweden to New Jersey, a move he characterized as a retaliatory demotion. He filed a lawsuit against Wyeth, which was settled out of court for undisclosed terms. Rost left Wyeth for Pharmacia in
Wyeth Wins U.S. OK to Sell Pristiq for Depression. [SEP] Wyeth // Chairman in 1986. He completed the divestiture of non-core businesses such as household products (for example the Slaymaker lock company), foods, candy (Brach's Candy), and medical devices (e.g., its Sherwood-Medical Company was sold to Tyco-Kendal in 1997). In 1987 AHP merged its Wyeth and Ayerst divisions to unite its pharmaceutical businesses, forming Wyeth-Ayerst Laboratories. In the late 1980s, AHP acquired the animal health businesses of Bristol-Myers and Parke-Davis. In negotiations that lasted from 1986 to 1989, AHP acquired A.H. Robins which had been driven into bankruptcy by litigation over Dalkon Shield, and which also sold Reglan, Robitussin, ChapStick, and Dimetapp,
Jury clears J&J of liability in New Jersey talc cancer case. [SEP] Johnson & Johnson // cancer after using the company's talc-based products like Johnson's Baby Powder for feminine hygiene. The verdict included $70 million in compensatory damages and $347 million in punitive damages. J&J said they will appeal the verdict. In October 2017, the Missouri Eastern District appeals court on Tuesday threw out a $72 million jury verdict. The appeals court ruled 3-0 that Jacqueline Fox's lawsuit lacked jurisdiction in Missouri because of a U.S. Supreme Court decision that imposed limits on where injury lawsuit can be filed which lawsuit's jurisdiction requires a stronger connection between the forum state and a plaintiff's claims. Fox, 62,
Jury clears J&J of liability in New Jersey talc cancer case. [SEP] Johnson's Baby // 2016, J&J was ordered to pay $72 million in damages to the family of Jackie Fox, a 62-year-old woman who died of ovarian cancer in 2015. She had used Johnson's Baby Powder for many years. J&J claimed that the safety of cosmetic talc is supported by decades of scientific evidence and it plans to appeal the verdict. The British charity, Ovacome was quoted as saying that while there were 16 studies which showed that using talc increased the risk of ovarian cancer by around a third, and a 2013 review of US studies had similar results for genital, but not
Jury clears J&J of liability in New Jersey talc cancer case. [SEP] Levy Konigsberg // landmark talc case against a manufacturer for selling talc that was contaminated with asbestos. The firm secured a jury verdict for a man who developed mesothelioma from working in a factory that manufactured cosmetic talc products between 1967 and 1975. The firm has also litigated asbestos cases against manufacturers and suppliers of asbestos-containing automotive products. In 2008, the firm obtained a $30.3 million jury verdict in Bergen County, New Jersey in a case in which a man died from mesothelioma at the age of 50. The man was exposed to asbestos from working a few summers at a General Motors
Jury clears J&J of liability in New Jersey talc cancer case. [SEP] Talc // verdict of Eva Echeverria against Johnson & Johnson and its talc-containing consumer products for causing cancer. The judge stated that Eva Echeverria proved there is "an ongoing debate in the scientific and medical community about whether talc more probably than not causes ovarian cancer and thus (gives) rise to a duty to warn", but not enough to sustain the jury's imposition of liability against Johnson & Johnson stated, and concluded that Echeverria did not adequately establish that talc causes ovarian cancer. In July 2018, a court in St. Louis awarded a $4.7bn claim ($4.14bn in punitive damages and $550m in
Jury clears J&J of liability in New Jersey talc cancer case. [SEP] Talc // female genital area. Yet no federal agency in the US acted to remove talcum powder from the market or add warnings. In February 2016, as the result of a lawsuit against Johnson & Johnson (J&J), a St. Louis jury awarded $72 million to the family of an Alabama woman who died from ovarian cancer. The family claimed that the use of talcum powder was responsible for her cancer. In May 2016, a South Dakota woman was awarded $55 million as the result of another lawsuit against J&J. The woman had used Johnson & Johnson's Baby Powder for more than 35
Jury clears J&J of liability in New Jersey talc cancer case. [SEP] Johnson & Johnson // of Birmingham, Ala., died in 2015, about four months before her trial was held in St. Louis Circuit Court. She was among 65 plaintiffs, of whom only two were from Missouri. Subsequently, it also would kill three other recent St. Louis jury verdicts of more than $200 million combined. In July 2018, a St. Louis jury awarded nearly US$4.7 billion in damages to 22 women and their families after they claimed asbestos in Johnson & Johnson talcum powder caused their ovarian cancer. In August 2018, Johnson & Johnson said that it removed several chemicals from baby powder products and re-engineered
Jury clears J&J of liability in New Jersey talc cancer case. [SEP] Talc // years before being diagnosed with ovarian cancer in 2011. In October 2016, a St. Louis jury awarded $70.1 million to a Californian woman with ovarian cancer who had used Johnson's Baby Powder for 45 years. In August 2017, a Los Angeles jury awarded $417 million to a Californian woman, Eva Echeverria, who developed ovarian cancer as a "proximate result of the unreasonably dangerous and defective nature of talcum powder", her lawsuit against Johnson & Johnson stated. At least 1,200 to 2,000 other talcum powder-related lawsuits are pending. On 20 October 2017, Los Angeles Superior Court judge Maren Nelson, dismissed the
Jury clears J&J of liability in New Jersey talc cancer case. [SEP] Dr. X killings // Examiners revoked Jascalevich's license to practice medicine in the State of New Jersey, finding by a vote of 11–0 that Jascalevich was guilty of ""gross malpractice or gross negligence and failure of good moral character"". Jascalevich had voluntarily surrendered his license in 1976 after being indicted in the criminal case for which he was later acquitted. The state found fraudulently prepared operation records in one case, and in another that he had made a diagnosis of cancer that "he knew or should have known" was false. Both patients had been admitted to Christ Hospital and had been from Jersey City,
Jury clears J&J of liability in New Jersey talc cancer case. [SEP] Levy Konigsberg // Levy Phillips & Konigsberg represented 132 of the plaintiffs and was then representing ""more than 500 asbestos cases elsewhere"". The firm's involvement in asbestos litigation continued into the 2000s. In one series of cases, the firm represented clients against a miner of asbestos-contaminated talc located in St. Lawrence County, New York including a case in which a man developed mesothelioma from using the talc in creating pottery and another case in which a man developed the same asbestos-related cancer from using the talc in making ceramics. In a case against a different talc company, the firm was involved in another
Jury clears J&J of liability in New Jersey talc cancer case. [SEP] David Jagolinzer // liability, toxic mass tort, and catastrophic personal injury and wrongful death. In April 2008 he earned his client a $24.2 million jury verdict in Guilder v. Honeywell International, Inc., which at the time was the highest compensatory damage award against a single defendant in a Florida mesothelioma case in history. The case made "The National Law Journal's" Top 100 Verdicts for that year. However this verdict was reversed on appeal. Also in 2008, Jagolinzer was a key figure in convincing the court to declare the 2005 Florida Asbestos Statute as unconstitutional, in William v. American Optical Corporation. The now defunct
More women are victims of domestic violence on Super Bowl Sunday than on any other day of the year. [SEP] Who Stole Feminism? // Bowl game, went too far in claiming that "no study shows that Super Bowl Sunday is in any way different from other days in the amount of domestic violence". Hammer said that Sommers ignored a variety of studies that showed increased domestic violence during the Super Bowl. The anthropologist Melvin Konner wrote that, like Warren Farrell's "The Myth of Male Power" (1993), "Who Stole Feminism?" is a good antidote to the way in which "real knowledge about sex roles...tends to get buried in postmodernist rhetoric." Anne-Marie Kinahan of Wilfrid Laurier University places "Who Stole Feminism?" alongside Rene Denfeld's "The New
More women are victims of domestic violence on Super Bowl Sunday than on any other day of the year. [SEP] Who Stole Feminism? // the assessment that Sommers wrote her book primarily to sell many copies, the book represents a threat in its attempt to redefine feminism. The criminologist Samuel Walker Kiewit was impressed by Sommers' debunking of the statistic that there is a 40% increase in domestic violence incidents associated with the annual Super Bowl game, but wrote that she ignored the underlying seriousness of the domestic violence problem. The sociologist Rhonda Hammer of University of California, Los Angeles, writes that Sommers, despite her debunking of the figure that there is a 40% increase of domestic violence incidents associated with the annual Super
More women are victims of domestic violence on Super Bowl Sunday than on any other day of the year. [SEP] Athletes and domestic violence // domestic violence. The rate of domestic violence among NFL players is higher than expected for their income level, which could suggest that these athletes are indeed more prone to domestic violence. Athletes and domestic violence Domestic violence is one of the most common crimes among male athletes.There is an ongoing struggle among sporting leagues, governments, and viewers to address the increasing number of domestic violence incidents committed by athletes. The NFL, National Collegiate Athletic Association(NCAA), National Basketball Association(NBA), and the sport of Boxing employ and promote athletes who have committed domestic violence. Most prominent are instances of domestic violence that
More women are victims of domestic violence on Super Bowl Sunday than on any other day of the year. [SEP] Human trafficking // have noticed increase in sex trafficking during previous years of the Super Bowl. For the 2011 Super Bowl held in Dallas, Texas, the Backpage for Dallas area experienced a 136% increase on the number of posts in the Adult section on Super Bowl Sunday, where as Sundays typically have the lowest amount of posts. Researchers analyzed the most salient terms in these online ads, which suggested that many escorts were traveling across state lines to Dallas specifically for the Super Bowl, and found that the self-reported ages were higher than usual. Twitter was another social networking platform studied for detecting
More women are victims of domestic violence on Super Bowl Sunday than on any other day of the year. [SEP] Athletes and domestic violence // domestic violence. Domestic abuse among professional athletes is not a new problem, but it became a nationally recognized issue when Baltimore Ravens football player Ray Rice assaulted his then-fiancee, now wife, in 2014 and was only suspended from two NFL games. The incident took place in elevator in a hotel, in which Rice knocks out his wife- the video was released by TMZ. Prior to the incident, the NFL’s conduct policy stated that players would be disciplined for domestic abuse offense, but gave no specifics, so the league was left scrambling to come up with an appropriate punishment for Rice.
More women are victims of domestic violence on Super Bowl Sunday than on any other day of the year. [SEP] Domestic violence in the United States // and blame. The dynamics between the couple may include Between 960,000 and 3,000,000 incidents of domestic violence are reported each year, while many other incidents go unreported. It is estimated that more than ten million people experience domestic violence in the U.S. each year. The ten states with the highest rate of females murdered by males were, as of 2010, Nevada, South Carolina, Tennessee, Louisiana, Virginia, Texas, New Mexico, Hawaii, Arizona, Georgia. In 2009, for homicides in which the victim to offender relationship could be identified, 93% of female victims were murdered by a male they knew, 63% of them
More women are victims of domestic violence on Super Bowl Sunday than on any other day of the year. [SEP] Epidemiology of domestic violence // justified, particularly if the woman refused to have sex with her husband. Up to two-thirds of women in certain communities in Nigeria's Lagos State say they are victims to domestic violence. In Turkey 42% of women over 15 have suffered physical or sexual violence Between 1993 and 2001, U.S. women reported intimate partner violence almost seven times more frequently than men (a ratio of 20:3). Statistics for the year 1994 showed that more than five times as many females reported being victimized by an intimate than did males. Domestic violence during pregnancy can be missed by medical professionals because it
More women are victims of domestic violence on Super Bowl Sunday than on any other day of the year. [SEP] Women in Turkey // her husband was killed by him at Kastamonu. On 9 October 2017, Habertürk reported that the number of electronic bracelets given for domestic violence incidents throughout Turkey is only 30, although some 120,000 women are subjected to violence by men every year in the Turkey. On November, 2017, according to a study conducted by a student at Muğla Sıtkı Koçman University, mentioned that 28.5 percent of the respondents said they have witnessed domestic abuse. In the same study 52.9 percent of those who were involved in a relationship said they were subjected to "dating abuse," described in the report as
More women are victims of domestic violence on Super Bowl Sunday than on any other day of the year. [SEP] National Football League player conduct policy // claimed on five different occasions he assaulted her. Despite never being charged, the NFL launched a year long investigation into the allegations. In March 2017, Elliott was captured on video pulling down woman's shirt exposing her breasts while watching a St. Patrick's Day parade in Dallas. Four months later in July 2017 he was allegedly involved in an altercation at a nightclub during which a DJ’s nose was broken. Dallas police eventually suspended the investigation after they were unable to locate the victim. A Domestic Violence Policy has been put into effect after the Ray Rice domestic violence incident on
More women are victims of domestic violence on Super Bowl Sunday than on any other day of the year. [SEP] National Coalition Against Domestic Violence // working to end violence against women and their children. The activities conducted were as varied and diverse as the orgram sponsors but had common themes: The Day of Unity soon became an entire week devoted to a range of activities conducted at the local, state, and national level. Each year, the Day of Unity is celebrated the first Monday of Domestic Violence Awareness Month. National Coalition Against Domestic Violence creates public service announcements to help increase awareness of domestic violence and help women affected by it to call the National Domestic Violence Hotline at 1-800-799-SAFE (7233). National Coalition Against Domestic
An "abortion procedure is actually safer than a vasectomy. [SEP] Vasectomy // insufficient for conception. Disadvantages include the need for procedures on the woman, and the standard potential side-effects of I.V.F. for both the mother and the child. Although men considering vasectomies should not think of them as reversible, and most men and their partners are satisfied with the operation, life circumstances and outlooks can change, and there is a surgical procedure to reverse vasectomies using vasovasostomy (a form of microsurgery first performed by Earl Owen in 1971). Vasovasostomy is effective at achieving pregnancy in a variable percentage of cases, and total out-of-pocket costs in the United States are often upwards of
An "abortion procedure is actually safer than a vasectomy. [SEP] Vasectomy // foreign biological substance (much like a virus or bacterium). Vasectomy is the most effective permanent form of contraception available to men. In nearly every way that vasectomy can be compared to tubal ligation it has a more positive outlook. Vasectomy is more cost effective, less invasive, has techniques that are emerging that may facilitate easier reversal, and has a much lower risk of postoperative complications. Early failure rates, i.e. pregnancy within a few months after vasectomy, typically result from unprotected sexual intercourse too soon after the procedure while some sperm continue to pass through the vasa deferentia. Most physicians and
An "abortion procedure is actually safer than a vasectomy. [SEP] Abortion // world is one of the safest procedures in medicine. Modern methods use medication or surgery for abortions. The drug mifepristone in combination with prostaglandin appears to be as safe and effective as surgery during the first and second trimester of pregnancy. The most common surgical technique involves dilating the cervix and using a suction device. Birth control, such as the pill or intrauterine devices, can be used immediately following abortion. When performed legally and safely, induced abortions do not increase the risk of long-term mental or physical problems. In contrast, unsafe abortions (those performed by unskilled individuals, with hazardous equipment,
An "abortion procedure is actually safer than a vasectomy. [SEP] Vasectomy // 2000 vasectomies— better than tubal ligations for which the failure rate is one in every 200 to 300 cases. A 2005 review including both early and late failures described a total of 183 recanalizations from 43,642 vasectomies (0.4%), and sixty pregnancies after 92,184 vasectomies (0.07%). Short-term possible complications include infection, bruising and bleeding into the scrotum resulting in a collection of blood known as a hematoma. A study in 2012 demonstrated an infection rate of 2.5% postvasectomy. The stitches on the small incisions required are prone to irritation, though this can be minimized by covering them with gauze or small
An "abortion procedure is actually safer than a vasectomy. [SEP] Vasectomy // maintained responsibility of the contraceptive task up until the point of the operation. Terry notes that a man undergoing a vasectomy may also mean he receives a high degree of gratitude and positive reinforcement for making the choice to be sterilised, perhaps more so than a woman who has been on an oral contraceptive or similar for years prior. Medical tourism, where a patient travels to a less developed location where a procedure is cheaper to save money and combine convalescence with a vacation, is infrequently used for vasectomy due to its low cost, but is more likely to be
An "abortion procedure is actually safer than a vasectomy. [SEP] Vasectomy reversal // likelihood of vasoepididymostomy at the time of vasectomy reversal, as this technique is generally associated with lower patency and pregnancy rates than vasovasostomy. Web-based, computer models and calculations have been proposed and published that described the chance of needing an vasoepididymostomy at reversal surgery. The pregnancy rate is often seen as a more reliable way of measuring the success of a vasectomy reversal than the patency rates, as they measure the real-life success of whether the man succeeds in the aim of having a new child. It is important to appreciate that female age is the single most powerful factor
An "abortion procedure is actually safer than a vasectomy. [SEP] Vasectomy // can resume their typical sexual behavior within a week, and do so with little or no discomfort. Because the procedure is considered a permanent method of contraception and is not easily reversed, men are usually counseled/advised to consider how the long-term outcome of a vasectomy might affect them both emotionally and physically. The procedure is not often encouraged for young single childless men as their chances for biological parenthood are thereby more or less permanently reduced to almost zero. It is seldom performed on dogs (castration, a different procedure, remains the preferred reproductive control option for canines) but is regularly
An "abortion procedure is actually safer than a vasectomy. [SEP] Vasectomy // less use by virtue of known higher failure rates (i.e., recanalization). An earlier clip device, the VasClip, is no longer on the market, due to unacceptably high failure rates. The VasClip method, though considered reversible, has had a higher cost and resulted in lower success rates. Also, because the vasa deferentia are not cut or tied with this method, it could technically be classified as other than a vasectomy. Vasectomy reversal (and the success thereof) was conjectured to be higher as it only required removing the Vas-Clip device. This method achieved limited use, and scant reversal data are available. Both
An "abortion procedure is actually safer than a vasectomy. [SEP] No scalpel vasectomy // than traditional vasectomy surgery. Possible complications are: No scalpel vasectomy No scalpel vasectomy (also called keyhole vasectomy or NSV) is a vasectomy procedure variant in which a sharp hemostat is used to puncture the scrotum to access the vas deferens instead of giving an incision as in conventional vasectomy. This offers several benefits, the key being that there is no need for surgical sutures to close the skin. Because of the inherent simplicity of the procedure it affords itself to be used in public health programs worldwide.This method is used in over 40 countries for male sterilisation. No scalpel vasectomy
An "abortion procedure is actually safer than a vasectomy. [SEP] Male contraceptive // the procedure, the vasa deferentia of a man are severed, and then tied or sealed in a manner such to prevent sperm from entering into the seminal stream (ejaculate). Vasectomies are usually performed in a physician's office or medical clinic. CDC research has estimated there is a probability of 11 failures per 1,000 procedures over 2 years; half of the failures occurred in the first three months after the vasectomy, and no failures occurred after 72 weeks. Due to the presence of sperm retained beyond the blocked vasa deferentia, vasectomies only become effective about three months following the operation. A
Dick Black Says Jill McCabe "supports late term abortions. Larger baby parts are more profitable. [SEP] Dick Black (politician) // on abortion issues. He also once remarked that abortion was "a greater evil than segregation or slavery" and in 2005 he authored a bill that would require abortion providers to wrongly tell women that foetuses being aborted after 20 weeks could feel pain. Also in 2005, he resurrected his legislation that would ban gay people from adopting children, claiming that gay people were more prone to violence, alcoholism, and suicide. He then amended the bill to require that adoption agencies investigate whether people looking to adopt children were "known to engage in current voluntary homosexual activity". In February of that
Dick Black Says Jill McCabe "supports late term abortions. Larger baby parts are more profitable. [SEP] Planned Parenthood 2015 undercover videos controversy // top doctor describing how she performs late-term abortions to sell body parts for profit", vowed to campaign to defund Planned Parenthood, and called for Hillary Clinton to return Planned Parenthood's donations to her campaign. Carly Fiorina said "This latest news is tragic and outrageous. This isn't about 'choice'. It's about profiting on the death of the unborn while telling women it's about empowerment". During the September 16, 2015, GOP presidential candidates' debate on "CNN", she harshly criticized Planned Parenthood and their involvement in fetal tissue donation, stating "I dare Hillary Clinton, Barack Obama to watch these tapes. Watch a fully
Dick Black Says Jill McCabe "supports late term abortions. Larger baby parts are more profitable. [SEP] Heidi Heitkamp // fellow red state Democratic Senator Joe Donnelly (D-Indiana), who entered the Senate at the same time Heitkamp did. When running for Senate in 2012, Heitkamp said she opposed public funding of abortions and believed that "late term abortions should be illegal except when necessary to save the life of the mother." After her election, however, she voted to filibuster a bill that would have made abortions illegal after the fifth month of pregnancy except when the mother's life is endangered. Heitkamp's apparent shift led to criticism by Marjorie Dannenfelser of the pro-life Susan B. Anthony List. Planned Parenthood, which supports
Dick Black Says Jill McCabe "supports late term abortions. Larger baby parts are more profitable. [SEP] Barbara Comstock // and supports increased American intervention in Iraq and Syria beyond air support. Comstock supports a ban on abortion except in cases of rape, incest, or when the mother's life is in danger. In 2011, Comstock voted in favor of HB 462, which required women to have transvaginal ultrasounds before receiving an abortion. When opponents pointed out that this would necessitate an internal ultrasound for early-term pregnancies, an amendment was passed to limit the requirement to external ultrasounds only. She also voted in favor of the amendment. She supports making birth control available to women over the counter. In March 2017,
Dick Black Says Jill McCabe "supports late term abortions. Larger baby parts are more profitable. [SEP] Jill Stanek // Sebelius as Secretary of Health and Human Services. Jill Stanek Jill Stanek (born 1956) is an American pro-life activist and nurse from Illinois best known for saying "live birth abortions" were being performed at Christ Hospital in the Chicago suburb of Oak Lawn and the premature infants were being left to die in a utility room. In 2008, she accused President Barack Obama of supporting infanticide while a member of the Illinois State Senate, referring to Obama's opposition to Born Alive Infants Protection legislation. The Christian magazine "World" named Stanek one of the 30 most prominent pro-life leaders during the
Dick Black Says Jill McCabe "supports late term abortions. Larger baby parts are more profitable. [SEP] Political positions of Rudy Giuliani // could come to either conclusion. As mayor, Giuliani stated that he was against banning late-term abortions, and that he didn't see his position on that changing. He told "The Albany Times Union" that he would not support a ban on late-term abortions. He also stated that Bill Clinton made the right decision when he vetoed legislation in 1997 banning intact dilation and extraction, often referred to as "partial birth abortion". Nonetheless, he praised a 2007 Supreme Court decision upholding a 2003 ban on the procedure, saying that this was because the 2003 law had included "more scientific language protecting the
Dick Black Says Jill McCabe "supports late term abortions. Larger baby parts are more profitable. [SEP] Morgan Griffith // 1999 on his political positions by Project Vote Smart, Griffith indicated that he supports legalized abortion in the first trimester and to save the life of the mother, while favoring the restriction of abortion through parental notification laws and prohibition of partial-birth abortion. Griffith's voting record has generally been consistent with his 1999 survey, voting in favor of restrictions on late term abortions such as parental-notification and parental-consent, while voting against bills that would restrict first-term abortions. In 2010 Griffith voted to restrict state funding of abortions, and to require abortion clinics to meet the same licensing requirements as surgical
Dick Black Says Jill McCabe "supports late term abortions. Larger baby parts are more profitable. [SEP] Dick Black (politician) // fetus, details of the abortion procedure and other options available to her. The bill eventually passed and was signed into law. Also during the 2001 session, Black opposed a bill that would allow the "morning-after pill" to be dispensed at pharmacies. Opponents of the bill said that, unlike normal contraceptives that prevent the fertilization of an egg, these types of emergency contraceptives can act as an abortifacient, preventing a fertilized egg from attaching to the uterine wall. "This is a baby pesticide we're looking at. It's a toxic method of eliminating a child," said Black. Although the bill failed to
Dick Black Says Jill McCabe "supports late term abortions. Larger baby parts are more profitable. [SEP] Protection of Life During Pregnancy Act 2013 // asking whether TDs would be excommunicated if they voted for the bill. Derek Keating's parish priest stopped him serving as minister of the Eucharist after he voted for the Act. Pro-Life commentators criticised the bill's lack of time limits. Breda O'Brien suggested doctors might induce labour of a borderline-viable fetus, resulting in permanent health problems associated with premature birth. Rónán Mullen suggested the prospect of medical malpractice lawsuits from such births might make doctors prefer late-term abortion instead. Professor Fiona de Londras objected to the criteria for establishing risk being more onerous for suicide than for physical illness. While the
Dick Black Says Jill McCabe "supports late term abortions. Larger baby parts are more profitable. [SEP] Political positions of Fred Thompson // public financing. The ultimate decision must be made by the women. Government should treat its citizens as adults capable of making moral decisions on their own." Also in 1994, Thompson told a Tennessee newspaper (the "Conservative Spectator"): "I'm not willing to support laws that prohibit early term abortions ... It comes down to whether life begins at conception. I don't know in my own mind if that is the case so I don't feel the law ought to impose that standard on other people." And, in 1994, Thompson's campaign checked the following responses regarding abortion, as part of the National
Donald Trump Says 25 percent of U.S. Muslims "agreed that violence against Americans here in the United States is justified as a part of the global jihad. [SEP] Donald Trump 2016 presidential campaign // percent of U.S. adults supporting Trump's proposal, while a March 2016 poll showed 34 percent of U.S. adults supporting it. In remarks made following the November 2015 Paris attacks, Trump stated that he would support a database for tracking Muslims in the United States and expanded surveillance of mosques. Trump's support for an American Muslim database "drew sharp rebukes from his Republican presidential rivals and disbelief from legal experts." On December 7, 2015, in response to the 2015 San Bernardino attack, Trump further called for a temporary ban on any Muslims entering the country. He issued a written statement saying,
Donald Trump Says 25 percent of U.S. Muslims "agreed that violence against Americans here in the United States is justified as a part of the global jihad. [SEP] Islam in the United States // for Social Policy and Understanding, only 15% of American Muslims wanted Donald Trump to win the 2016 presidential election, compared to 54% wanting Hillary Clinton to win. According to a 2018 poll from the Institute for Social Policy and Understanding, American Muslims were as satisfied with the American trajectory as the general public, reporting at around 27%. Regarding the 45th president of the United States, Donald Trump, Muslims are the least likely to approve of him across all faith groups including non affiliated Americans. This compares to, "17% of non-affiliated Americans, 31% of Jews, 36% of Catholics, 41% of Protestants,
Donald Trump Says 25 percent of U.S. Muslims "agreed that violence against Americans here in the United States is justified as a part of the global jihad. [SEP] Loretta Sanchez // about the threat of extremist groups within Islam, Sanchez suggested some experts estimate that "anywhere between 5 and 20 percent" of Muslims worldwide supported the creation of a Caliphate to overthrow the United States. Sanchez's comments, which came on the heels of both the recent Islamist terror attack in San Bernardino and 2016 Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump's call to temporarily ban Muslim immigration to the United States, were criticized as contributing to Anti-Muslim sentiment. Sanchez explained that she was merely echoing President Obama's remarks in his December 6, 2015 Oval Office Address wherein he stated: "Extremist ideology has spread
Donald Trump Says 25 percent of U.S. Muslims "agreed that violence against Americans here in the United States is justified as a part of the global jihad. [SEP] Islam and violence // British Muslims, and 8% of American Muslims thought suicide bombings are often or sometimes justified. The figure was unchanged – still 8% – for American Muslims by 2011. Polls have found Muslim-Americans to report less violent views than any other religious group in America. 89% of Muslim-Americans claimed that the killing of civilians is never justified, compared to 71% of Catholics and Protestants, 75% of Jews, and 76% of atheists and non-religious groups. The Pew Research Center's 2013 poll showed that the majority of 14,244 Muslim, Christian and other respondents in 14 countries with substantial Muslim populations are concerned about
Donald Trump Says 25 percent of U.S. Muslims "agreed that violence against Americans here in the United States is justified as a part of the global jihad. [SEP] Immigration policy of Donald Trump // they represent 10 percent of the Syrian population) and finding that the U.S. government is not discriminating against Christians as a matter of official policy. In a May 2016 interview with Bill O'Reilly, Trump stated "Look, we are at war with these people and they don't wear uniforms. ... . This is a war against people that are vicious, violent people, that we have no idea who they are, where they come from. We are allowing tens of thousands of them into our country now." Politifact ruled this statement "pants on fire", stating that the U.S. is on track to
Donald Trump Says 25 percent of U.S. Muslims "agreed that violence against Americans here in the United States is justified as a part of the global jihad. [SEP] Islam in the United States // that 66% of Americans agree that “the negative things politicians say regarding Muslims is harmful to our country.” Breaking down the results by faith community, 78% of Muslims and non-affiliated Americans agreed, contrasted with only 45% of white Evangelicals. Most Americans oppose banning the building of mosques (79%), the surveillance of U.S. mosques (63%), and the ‘Muslim Ban’ (~63%) pushed by the Trump Administration. Most Americans also take issue with the collective blaming of Muslims for the acts of individuals, and 69% of those surveyed believe Muslims are no more responsible for violence carried out by a Muslim than anyone
Donald Trump Says 25 percent of U.S. Muslims "agreed that violence against Americans here in the United States is justified as a part of the global jihad. [SEP] Islam in the United States // had no sympathy for Al Qaeda. A 2015 Brookings poll found that 14% Americans believe most Muslims support ISIS and another 44% believe Muslims partially support ISIS. A 2016 poll found that on average; Americans believed that 17% of the US population was Muslim and that this number would rise to 23% by 2020. A 2018 poll by The Institute for Social Policy and Understanding found that 86% of Americans report wanting to, “live in a country where no one is targeted for their religious identity.” 95% of American Jews and 78% of white Evangelicals agreed. The study also found
Donald Trump Says 25 percent of U.S. Muslims "agreed that violence against Americans here in the United States is justified as a part of the global jihad. [SEP] War against Islam conspiracy theory // with immediately", and has called Islam "a religion of submission", in contrast with the "enlightened ... Judeo-Christian West". Madiha Afzal of the Brookings Institution wrote in August 2016 that Trump's allegations of an Islamic war on America were helping ISIS convince Muslims that America is at war with Islam. A measure of the strength of the belief that a non-Muslim power (the United States) is at least attempting to weaken, if not annihilate, Islam can be found in opinion polls that showed, as of late 2006/ early 2007, strong majorities — at least 70% — in the Muslim countries of
Donald Trump Says 25 percent of U.S. Muslims "agreed that violence against Americans here in the United States is justified as a part of the global jihad. [SEP] Immigration and crime // 2001, 73 percent (62) were committed by far-right-wing violent extremist groups, and 27 percent (23) by radical Islamist violent extremists". A bulletin by the FBI and Department of Homeland Security also warned in May 2017 "that white supremacist groups were “responsible for a lion’s share of violent attacks among domestic extremist groups". According to a report by the New America foundation, of the individuals credibly involved in radical Islamist-inspired activity in the United States since 9/11, the large majority were US-born citizens, not immigrants. A 2018 paper found no statistically significant evidence that refugee settlements in the United States are
Donald Trump Says 25 percent of U.S. Muslims "agreed that violence against Americans here in the United States is justified as a part of the global jihad. [SEP] Islam in the United States // and other forms of violence against civilians are never justified. Favorable views towards Al Qaeda were held by a comparably smaller percentage among Muslim Americans, 2% very favorable and 3% somewhat favorable. 15% of American Muslims under the age of 30 supported suicide bombings against civilian targets in at least some circumstances, on the other hand, 11% said it could be "rarely justified" in a 2007 Pew poll. Among those over the age of 30, just 6% expressed their support for the same. (9% of Muslims over 30 and 5% under 30 chose not to answer). Terrorism that involved Muslim
In 2019, California education authorities formulated a policy that, if implemented, would force parents to allow their children to be taught that "there are 15 genders. [SEP] National Organization for Marriage // 2014 California ballot of a law addressing the rights of transgender students. The law, AB 1266, allows students to play on school sports teams and to use school bathrooms that accord with their gender identity. Brown said that "Opening our most vulnerable areas at school including showers, bathrooms and changing rooms to members of the opposite sex is politically-correct madness that risks the privacy and security of our children and grandchildren." On February 24, 2014, the California secretary of state's office reported that the proposition had failed to gather enough valid signatures to qualify for the November election. NOM president
In 2019, California education authorities formulated a policy that, if implemented, would force parents to allow their children to be taught that "there are 15 genders. [SEP] Education and the LGBT community // over 50% of California's public high schools. In 2011, the State Legislature passed the FAIR Education Act, which, if signed into law, would make California the first state in the United States to mandate the teaching of LGBT-affirmative social sciences (i.e., LGBT history) in the public school system and forbid discriminatory language in the school curriculum. One of the pre-eminent organizations advocating for LGBT education and academic rights in the United States is GLSEN. In 2016 a report titled "The National Inventory of School District Interventions in Support of LGBTQ Student Wellbeing" was issued by Lead Investigator Dr. Catherine Taylor,
In 2019, California education authorities formulated a policy that, if implemented, would force parents to allow their children to be taught that "there are 15 genders. [SEP] Transgender rights in the United States // ordinance on the same subject. In September 2016, California governor Jerry Brown signed a bill requiring all single-occupancy bathrooms to be gender-neutral, effective since March 1, 2017. California is the first U.S. state to adopt such legislation. In "Doe v. Regional School Unit", the Maine Supreme Court held that a transgender girl had a right to use the women's bathroom at school because her psychological well-being and educational success depended on her transition. The school, in denying her access, had "treated [her] differently from other students solely because of her status as a transgender girl." The court determined that this
In 2019, California education authorities formulated a policy that, if implemented, would force parents to allow their children to be taught that "there are 15 genders. [SEP] Transgender legal history in the United States // was transgender, in violation of the Matthew Shepard and James Byrd, Jr. Hate Crimes Prevention Act. In California in 2011 the FAIR Education Act (Senate Bill 48) became law, requiring the inclusion of political, economic, and social contributions of transgender people (along with lesbian, gay, and bisexual people and people with disabilities) in California's textbooks and public school social studies curricula. Another important change that year was that California enacted America's first law protecting transgender students; the law, called the School Success and Opportunity Act, declares that every public school student in California from kindergarten to 12th grade must be
In 2019, California education authorities formulated a policy that, if implemented, would force parents to allow their children to be taught that "there are 15 genders. [SEP] Unisex public toilet // meant California became the first state in the US to require all single-occupancy public toilets to be gender-neutral since March 1, 2017. This includes California schools, government buildings, businesses and public toilets. Legislation has also been proposed in California that "requires...private buildings open to the public, as specified, to maintain at least one safe, sanitary, and convenient baby diaper changing station that is accessible to women and men". On May 11, 2018, the US state of Vermont Gov. Phil Scott signed a bill requiring all single-user public restrooms to be gender-neutral - effective from July 1, 2018. In May 2016,
In 2019, California education authorities formulated a policy that, if implemented, would force parents to allow their children to be taught that "there are 15 genders. [SEP] FAIR Education Act // National Center for Lesbian Rights welcomed its ratification into law. The California Teachers Association's President Dean Vogel stated, “We believe that curricula should address the common values of the society, promote respect for diversity and cooperation, and prepare students to compete in, and cope with a complex and rapidly evolving society. SB 48 does that by helping to ensure that curricular materials include the contributions of persons with disabilities, lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender Americans to the development of California and United States.” It is opposed by the state Republican Party and socially conservative organizations. A conservative group called Stop
In 2019, California education authorities formulated a policy that, if implemented, would force parents to allow their children to be taught that "there are 15 genders. [SEP] School Success and Opportunity Act // School Success and Opportunity Act The School Success and Opportunity Act (Assembly Bill 1266), is a California state law which extends gender identity and gender expression discrimination protection to transgender and gender-nonconforming K-12 students in public schools. The bill "requires that a pupil be permitted to participate in sex-segregated school programs, activities, including athletic teams and competitions, and use facilities consistent with his or her gender identity, irrespective of the gender listed on the pupil's records." The bill was introduced by Assemblyman Tom Ammiano. It passed the California State Legislature in July 2013 and was signed into law by Governor
In 2019, California education authorities formulated a policy that, if implemented, would force parents to allow their children to be taught that "there are 15 genders. [SEP] Sex differences in education // do. One attempted change made to literacy instruction has been the offering of choice in classroom gender populations. In Hamilton, Ontario, Cecil B. Stirling Elementary/Junior School offered students in grades 7 and 8, and their parents, a choice between enrolling in a boys-only, girls-only or co-ed literacy course. Single-gender classes were most popular, and although no specific studies have shown a statistical advantage to single-gender literacy classes, the overall reaction by boys was positive: "I like that there's no girls and you can't be distracted. [. . .] You get better marks and you can concentrate more." However a 2014
In 2019, California education authorities formulated a policy that, if implemented, would force parents to allow their children to be taught that "there are 15 genders. [SEP] Sex-selective abortion // one child policy, which, within the country's deeply patriarchal culture, resulted in an unbalanced birth sex ratio. The one child policy was enforced very aggressively throughout the years, including through forced abortions and forced sterilizations, but it has been gradually loosened in recent years, and formally abolished in 2015. China's strong son preference is well documented in documentaries such as "The Dying Rooms" (1995) and "" (2012). When sex ratio began being studied in China in 1960, it was still within the normal range. However, it climbed to 111.9 by 1990 and to 118 by 2010 per its official census.
In 2019, California education authorities formulated a policy that, if implemented, would force parents to allow their children to be taught that "there are 15 genders. [SEP] Tape v. Hurley // 1851 and divided state funding "by the whole number of children in the State, between the ages of five and eighteen years" without specifying race (Article II, §1). It was repealed and replaced by an 1852 law which also lacked racial restrictions. The superseding 1855 Act to establish Common Schools counted only "the number of white children in each county between the ages of four and eighteen years" (§3, 12, 18) and allowed the establishment of a school upon "the petition of fifty heads of white families" (§22). In 1860, California amended the 1855 law to bar "Negroes, Mongolians, and
Trading tires: How the West fuels a waste crisis in Asia. [SEP] Global waste trade // which is occurring mainly in Asia. Industrialized countries seeking to retire used vessels find it cheaper to send these ships to Asia for dismantling. China and Bangladesh are seen as the two hubs of shipbreaking in Asia. One of the main issues lies in the fact that these ships which are now too aged to continue, were constructed at a time with less environmental regulation. In an environmental fact sheet, researchers demonstrate the immense impact this new toxic trade sector has on workers and the environment. For one, the older ships contain health-damaging substances such as asbestos, lead oxide, zinc
Trading tires: How the West fuels a waste crisis in Asia. [SEP] Waste tires // be used as fuel energy. Waste Tires used as fuel are either shredded or whole, depending on the combustion device being used. The type of fuel produced from Waste Tires is known as Tire-derived fuel (TDF). The region in the Mexico-United States border has failed to manage the stockpiles of waste tires. Some neglectful regions between the U.S. and Mexico border have given up on managing the stockpiles. The lack of waste tire management on the border will lead to health, fire, and environmental hazards in the area. In 2003, A program was set up and signed and included objectives
Trading tires: How the West fuels a waste crisis in Asia. [SEP] Global waste trade // beings and to the pillage of natural resources, to put an end to destructive wars for markets and raw materials, to the plundering of energy, particularly fossil fuels, to the excessive consumption of goods and to the accumulation of waste. The capitalist system only allows us to heap up waste. Jean Francois Kouadio, an African native living near a toxic dump site in the Ivory Coast, explains his experience with the effects of toxic substances lingering throughout his community. With major Western corporations dumping their toxic wastes in the Ivory Coast, Kuoadio has lost two children to the effects of
Trading tires: How the West fuels a waste crisis in Asia. [SEP] Waste tires // due to the presence of fillers, steel cord, organic, and inorganic components, is a major environments concern. Different agencies in the world are now recycling waste tires and other rubber goods into useful products instead of polluting the environment. In 2010 the Newfoundland and Labrador Government proposed that all waste tires in the province be shipped to Corner Brook to be burned and used as fuel. This was quickly delayed and further denied. A stock pile of waste tires that reached 1.9 million tires in 2010 was a major environmental headache for the government. Environment Minister Ross Wiseman said the
Trading tires: How the West fuels a waste crisis in Asia. [SEP] Global waste trade // Global waste trade The global waste trade is the international trade of waste between countries for further treatment, disposal, or recycling. Toxic or hazardous wastes are often exported from developed countries to developing countries, also known as countries of the Global South. Therefore, the burden of the toxicity of wastes from Western countries falls predominantly onto developing countries in Africa, Asia, and Latin America. The World Bank Report "What a Waste: A Global Review of Solid Waste Management", describes the amount of solid waste produced in a given country. Specifically, countries which produce more solid waste are more economically developed
Trading tires: How the West fuels a waste crisis in Asia. [SEP] Global waste trade // in Asia and Africa to be processed and recycled. Various studies have investigated the environmental and health effects of this e-waste upon the people who live and work around electronic waste dumps. Heavy metals, toxins, and chemicals leak from these discarded products into surrounding waterways and groundwater, poisoning the local people. People who work in these dumps, local children searching for items to sell, and people living in the surrounding communities are all exposed to these deadly toxins. One city suffering from the negative results of the hazardous waste trade is Guiyu, China, which has been called the electronic waste
Trading tires: How the West fuels a waste crisis in Asia. [SEP] Waste tires // Multi-Materials Stewardship Board (MMSB), a provincial agency that promotes recycling, reached agreements with Holcim (Canada) Inc. and Lafarge Canada Inc. They agreed to ship tires to Quebec where they will be burned for energy. The disposal of tires in landfills have proven to have negative effects on the environment. Not only do they take up a great deal of space within a landfill, but their process of decomposing has created a wide variety of issues that have made their disposal in landfills unfeasible and in many regions, banned. The process of bubbling of trapped methane gas has been linked to
Trading tires: How the West fuels a waste crisis in Asia. [SEP] Waste tires // to kill advantageous bacteria in the soil, creating yet another economic problem. Originally, this was the primary form of disposal for scrap rubber (70% in 1977), but due to the decreasing availability of space, this process is no longer considered feasible. Since the inability for landfills to provide adequate space for tire disposal, other forms of disposal and reclamation have been put into place, using waste tires as both commodities (new tires) as well as a form of energy (fuel alternative). Waste tires create problems such as landfilling, health, and environmental challenges. Accumulation of waste tires, which are non-biodegradable polymers
Trading tires: How the West fuels a waste crisis in Asia. [SEP] Tire recycling // produces little emissions or waste, however, concerns about air pollution due to incomplete combustion as is the case with tire fires have been documented. The properties of the gas, liquid, and solid output are determined by the type of feed-stock used and the process conditions. For instance whole tires contain fibers and steel. Shredded tires have most of the steel and sometimes most of the fiber removed. Processes can be either batch or continuous. The energy required to drive the decomposition of the rubber include using directly fired fuel (like a gas oven), electrical induction (like an electrically heated oven)
Trading tires: How the West fuels a waste crisis in Asia. [SEP] Crisis management // million tires. These tires were mostly used on the Ford Explorer, the world's top-selling sport utility vehicle (SUV). The two companies committed three major blunders early on, say crisis experts. First, they blamed consumers for not inflating their tires properly. Then they blamed each other for faulty tires and faulty vehicle design. Then they said very little about what they were doing to solve a problem that had caused more than 100 deaths—until they got called to Washington to testify before Congress. On 24 March 1989, a tanker belonging to the Exxon Corporation ran aground in the Prince William Sound
A Russian asbestos company placed a seal with the face of President Donald Trump on their product with the note "Approved by Donald Trump, 45th President of the United States. [SEP] Plastic Jesus (artist) // was inspired again to use Donald Trump as fodder for his art, this time commenting on Trump's executive order on immigration. The artist crafted a series of signs that he posted on vacant lots and building sites in cities throughout the country with the text "Lot Reserved For: Future Internment Camp" printed above an image of the United States' Seal. The signs draw a connection between Trump's travel ban and the internment of Japanese Americans during World War II; for instance, the text "Executive Order 9066" is a direct reference to the order originally signed in 1942 by Franklin D.
A Russian asbestos company placed a seal with the face of President Donald Trump on their product with the note "Approved by Donald Trump, 45th President of the United States. [SEP] My God, Help Me to Survive This Deadly Love // success it had. Prominent derivative works include "Make Everything Great Again", a 2016 Lithuanian mural of Russian president Vladimir Putin and United States president Donald Trump in a similar pose, a 2016 mural in Bristol featuring Donald Trump and pro-Brexit campaigner Boris Johnson, in the run-up to the 2016 referendum, and a billboard of Trump and rival for the Republican nomination for the 2016 US presidential election Ted Cruz which appeared in Cleveland ahead of the 2016 Republican National Convention, which was the work of non-governmental organisation Planting Peace. My God, Help Me to Survive This Deadly Love My God,
A Russian asbestos company placed a seal with the face of President Donald Trump on their product with the note "Approved by Donald Trump, 45th President of the United States. [SEP] Yury Chaika // an email chain released on 11 July 2017 by the son of then Republican Presidential nominee Donald Trump, Don Jr, in regards to the Russian government and their alleged attempts to provide damaging information during the U.S. Presidential election of 2016. The email thread resulted in the Trump campaign–Russian meeting of June 2016. On 14 June 2006, the Prosecutor General's Office reported that it had reopened the "Three Whales" corruption investigation, a case in which nineteen high-ranking FSB (Federal Security Service) officers were allegedly involved in furniture smuggling cases, as well as illegally importing consumer goods from China. The mass
A Russian asbestos company placed a seal with the face of President Donald Trump on their product with the note "Approved by Donald Trump, 45th President of the United States. [SEP] GrabYourWallet // $10,800 gold bracelet to fashion writers after wearing it on an interview about her father on "60 Minutes". In February 2017, President Trump's spokeswoman Kellyanne Conway formally endorsed Ivanka Trump's products on Fox News by saying she was giving the brand a "free commercial", telling viewers to buy Ivanka Trump's products. The statement was seen as a violation of federal ethics laws. These companies have been identified by grabyourwallet.org as companies that will not be boycotted though they have a connection to President Trump or family members and their businesses. GrabYourWallet GrabYourWallet was started on October 11, 2016 via Twitter
A Russian asbestos company placed a seal with the face of President Donald Trump on their product with the note "Approved by Donald Trump, 45th President of the United States. [SEP] David Datuna // of the Life Award became Gilead Sciences, Inc. for its work in Georgia in combating the hepatitis C epidemic. On June 8, 2017, Datuna created a 10-foot ice sculpture of Donald Trump's name in response to U.S. President's Withdrawal From The Paris Climate Agreement. Sculpture and the art performance was called "This Too Shall Pass." On December 13, 2017, David Datuna presented his rendition of the flag of Saudi Arabia to His Royal Highness Prince Khalid Al Faisal, the Governor of the Western Provence, as a gift from the Americans to the people of Saudi Arabia. Titled "Saudi Arabia -
A Russian asbestos company placed a seal with the face of President Donald Trump on their product with the note "Approved by Donald Trump, 45th President of the United States. [SEP] Presidential M&M's // provided because the ones with Trump's signature were not yet available. In May 2017, Presidential M&M's with President Trump's signature were released. Presidential M&M's Presidential M&M's is the name given to the commemorative packs of red, white, and blue-colored M&M's given to guests of the President of the United States on board Air Force One and in other Presidential locations. They were first created in 1988 and were later to replace cigarettes as the free gift given to guests of the President. The M&M's are presented in boxes about the size of a packet of cigarettes, with the Seal of
A Russian asbestos company placed a seal with the face of President Donald Trump on their product with the note "Approved by Donald Trump, 45th President of the United States. [SEP] Lester Brickman // Expert Report of Lester Brickman, Esq., Benjamin Cardozo School of Law, "In Re Garlock Sealing Technologies LLC, et al.," Case No. 10-Bk-31607, April 23, 2013. 2013.. Amicus brief in "Republic of Argentina v. NML Capitol, Ltd.," 695 F.3d 201 (2d Cir. 2012), Cert. Granted, 134 S.Ct. 895, Jan. 10, 2013 Affirmed, 134 S.Ct. 2250, U.S., June 2014, Filed April 2, 2014, 695 (2014).. Brickman, Lester. "Testimony of Lester Brickman, Benjamin N. Cardozo Distinguished Professor of Law, Yeshiva University, New York, NY," in "Furthering Asbestos Claim Transparency (FACT) Act of 2015: Hearing before the Subcommittee on Regulatory Reform, Commercial and Antitrust
A Russian asbestos company placed a seal with the face of President Donald Trump on their product with the note "Approved by Donald Trump, 45th President of the United States. [SEP] Seal of the President of the United States // office of the White House Counsel. On September 28, 2005, Grant M. Dixton, associate counsel to George W. Bush, requested that the satirical newspaper "The Onion" remove the presidential seal from its website. The Graphic and Calligraphy Office will approve of the seal's use in application of official gifts, an example being its application to a silver cigarette box presented as a gift to Franklin Roosevelt. The seal is sometimes used in modified form as a marketing tool, or to make a political statement. The punk rock group the Ramones used a personal variation of the seal as their logo,
A Russian asbestos company placed a seal with the face of President Donald Trump on their product with the note "Approved by Donald Trump, 45th President of the United States. [SEP] Aleksander Kwaśniewski // company ″Burisma Holdings Limited″ which owns licenses for the major Ukrainian gas fields. In a plea agreement filed in United States Federal court on 14 September 2018, former Donald Trump campaign chair Paul Manafort admitted to organizing a group of former European heads of state to illegally lobby, starting in 2011, on behalf of then-Ukrainian president Viktor Yanukovych. The plea agreement describes one of the heads of state involved in this secret lobbying as a "former Polish President" who "was also a representative of the European Parliament with oversight responsibility for Ukraine." At least one press report claimed that Kwaśniewski
A Russian asbestos company placed a seal with the face of President Donald Trump on their product with the note "Approved by Donald Trump, 45th President of the United States. [SEP] Presidency of Donald Trump // lawsuits were filed based on the Foreign Emoluments Clause: "D.C. and Maryland v. Trump", and "Blumenthal v. Trump", which was signed by more than one-third of the voting members of Congress. United States District Judge George B. Daniels dismissed the CREW case on December 21, 2017, holding that plaintiffs lacked standing. In February 2017, Trump senior advisor Kellyanne Conway promoted the clothing line of Ivanka Trump in a TV appearance from the White House briefing room. Office of Government Ethics director Walter Shaub requested disciplinary action in a letter to the White House Counsel's office. Under federal ethics regulations, federal
A video shows the fluff of poplar trees burning across a field in Spain. [SEP] Alt Empordà fires of 2012 // 51% were trees, 22% crops, and 19% brush. Of the 14,000 hectares, 3,000 (containing agricultural crops) were not burned. The fire threatened the towns of Llers and Capmany reaching homes and burning some in Jonquera and Agullana. At points, the flames reached five meters in height. The increasingly strong southwest and eastern winds created fears that fire would enter into the Garrotxa region and affect the Garrotxa Volcanic Natural Park, thus making it more difficult to combat the fire on land due to the dense forest and the topography of the land. According to Felip Puig, Minister of Interior of
A video shows the fluff of poplar trees burning across a field in Spain. [SEP] 2009 Mediterranean wildfires // burning. Isolated cases of areas in Spain affected by fires caused by lightning strikes include Aragon (Spain), as reported by "El Pais" and Mojácar, as suggested by the Spanish Forest Fire Organisation (INFOCA). The wildfires outside of Marseille, France were reported as being caused by military training using tracer bullets. The local government of Corsica believed the fires were caused by arson. 2009 Mediterranean wildfires The 2009 Mediterranean wildfires were a series of wildfires that broke out across France, Greece, Italy, Spain, and Turkey in July 2009. Strong winds spread the fire during a hot, dry period of weather killing
A video shows the fluff of poplar trees burning across a field in Spain. [SEP] Davie Poplar // damaged by Hurricane Fran. A fire was set and a small device was detonated at the base of Davie Poplar on November 2, 2017, producing a small fire ball and scorching the side of the tree. The explosion caused minor injuries to Dr. Daniel Reichart who tried to stomp out the fire. Davie Poplar Davie Poplar is a large tulip poplar tree located in McCorkle Place on the campus of the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. Named in honor of Revolutionary War general and university founder William Richardson Davie, the tree is approximately 300 to 375 years old.
A video shows the fluff of poplar trees burning across a field in Spain. [SEP] October 2017 Iberian wildfires // and the peninsula, and helped fan wildfires in both Portugal and Spain. In Portugal, on its worst day, firefighters battled over 440 fires. The country sought assistance from European neighbours and Morocco. The Portuguese Minister of Internal Administration Constança Urbano de Sousa, who resigned as a consequence, said "We have all our firefighters out there doing everything they can". The arrival of Ophelia brought Saharan dust to parts of the United Kingdom, giving the sky an orange or yellow-sepia appearance, and the sun a red or orange appearance. A strange 'burning' smell was also reported across Devon, also attributed to
A video shows the fluff of poplar trees burning across a field in Spain. [SEP] Cyclone Tini // enough and had to call in trained professionals to use chainsaws. Police declared a major emergency in County Kilkenny. Between 5,000 and 7,000 hectares of forest have been blown down, mainly in Munster. Across Ireland an estimated 7.5 million trees in total were blown down. In the early hours of 13 February the Irish contender for European Tree of the Year fell, a 200 year old Grey Poplar in the grounds of Birr Castle, County Offaly. Many roads across Wales were closed by falling trees, several railway lines also affected. Anglesey wind turbines burst into flames. Porthmadog railway station part
A video shows the fluff of poplar trees burning across a field in Spain. [SEP] Populus grandidentata // by gypsy moths is followed by a fungal infection by "Armillaria" spp. The ambrosia beetle ("Xyleborus saxesceni") attacks fire-damaged bigtooth aspens. Commonly, it occurs in areas that frequently burn, such as large upland areas distant from water and upwind of natural fire breaks, such as lakes. The wood is light-colored, straight-grained, fine-textured, and soft. It is used primarily for pulp, but can be used to make particle board and structural panels. Minor uses include log homes, pallets, boxes, match splints, chopsticks, hockey stick components, and ladders. The bark is pelletized for fuel and supplemental cattle feed. Populus grandidentata Populus grandidentata,
A video shows the fluff of poplar trees burning across a field in Spain. [SEP] Septoria musiva // of the pathogen on "Populus deltoides". Population genetics approaches suggested that dissemination of the pathogen appears to be associated with the natural distribution of wild "P. deltoïdes""." More recently, anthropogenic activities like plant exchanges and transportation of infected plant material also resulted in spread and introduction of the disease in naïve habitats. There is a major concern to make sure it does not reach Europe, as it will likely take over the native poplars very quickly there. Cankers appear on branches and new shoots off poplar trees, these are relatively weak spots on the tree and often break. This is
A video shows the fluff of poplar trees burning across a field in Spain. [SEP] Philippe Pastor // United States. It was also shown at the 2007 Vienna Biennale. His work has been auctioned by Christie's. Since 2003, Pastor has collected burned wood from the forest of La Garde-Freinet and made sculptures with them to draw attention to the fact that every year, forests are caught on fire on Southern France, Italy and Spain. As part of the United Nations Environment Programme, these sculptures, called "Burned Trees", have been exhibited permanently at the United Nations Office at Nairobi since 2006, and at the Nice Côte d'Azur Airport in Southern France. They were also exhibited in Singapore in 2007.
A video shows the fluff of poplar trees burning across a field in Spain. [SEP] October 2017 Iberian wildfires // the dust, and smoke from forest fires in Portugal and Spain. Winds up to were observed in Orlock Head, County Down, at the height of the storm. Approximately 50,000 households lost power in Northern Ireland. Insurance claims from Northern Ireland, Wales, and Scotland are estimated to reach £5–10 million (US$6.6–13.2 million). In Tallinn, Estonia, a black rain occurred due to the fact that Hurricane Ophelia brought smoke and soot of fires to Estonia from Portugal, as well as dust from the Sahara Desert, Report informs citing the Estonian media. "We looked at photos from satellites and the Finnish weather service
A video shows the fluff of poplar trees burning across a field in Spain. [SEP] Populus sect. Tacamahaca // the high heat. Their leaves tremble in the slightest breeze like the quaking aspen The balsam poplar "P. balsamifera" (= "P. tacamahaca", "P. candicans") is a native of North America, where it grows on alluvial bottomlands in the northeastern United States and Canada. It grows to a height of 30 metres and has yellow-grey bark, thick and furrowed, and coloured blackish at the base of the trunk. The twigs are yellow-brown to brown, the buds covered with a layer of balsam resin. The flowers and fruit are very much like those of the white poplar ("P. alba") which is a
US biologists eye unusual deaths of Alaska ice seals. [SEP] Ribbon seal // hunt on ribbon seals in 1969, their population has recovered. The current population is around 250,000. In March 2008 the US government agreed to study Alaska's ribbon seal population and considered adding it to the endangered species list. However, in December 2008, the US government decided that sea ice critical to the seals' survival will not be endangered by global warming, and declined to list the species. Instead, it became a U.S. National Marine Fisheries Service Species of Concern. The US Government’s National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS), has some concerns regarding status and threats of
US biologists eye unusual deaths of Alaska ice seals. [SEP] Mass mortality event // An analysis of such events from 1940 to 2012 found that these events have become more common for birds, fish and marine invertebrates, but have declined for amphibians and reptiles and not changed for mammals. Harbour Seals (1988) In 1988, the death of 20,000 harbour seals in the North Sea was found to be due to phocine distemper virus. Ten years later two bacteria were implicated in the death of 1600 New Zealand sea lions. On Marion Island in 2007, some 250–300 adult male Subantarctic fur seal died in a two-week period. It was suggested but not proven that this
US biologists eye unusual deaths of Alaska ice seals. [SEP] Sealand of the Pacific // She died in 1972, a little over 2 years after her capture; the disease which caused her albinism, Chédiak–Higashi syndrome, made her very susceptible to illness. Haida, her mate, mourned her death, and remained alone for years. Eventually, Sealand captured a female whale named Nootka II for his mate. Nootka II, however, died after 9 months. His third mate, Nootka III, was also short-lived. By the time of the death of his third mate, Haida displayed no interest in them. In 1977, Sealand captured a young orca which was found alone, emaciated, and suffering from bullet wounds. Miracle became a
US biologists eye unusual deaths of Alaska ice seals. [SEP] Baikal seal // Baikal seal populations. The chemicals are speculated to concentrate up the food chain and weaken the Baikal seal's immune system, making them susceptible to diseases such as canine distemper and the plague, which was the cause of a serious Baikal seal epidemic that resulted in the deaths of 5,000–6,500 animals in 1987-1988. Small numbers died as recently as 2000, but the reason for their deaths is unclear. Canine distemper is still present in the Baikal seal population, but has not caused mass deaths since the earlier outbreaks. In general, levels of DDT and non-ortho PCB have declined in the lake
US biologists eye unusual deaths of Alaska ice seals. [SEP] Caspian seal // more than 10,000 seals had died along the Kazakhstan coast. High death rates were also recorded in May and June along the Apsheron peninsula of Azerbaijan and the Turkmenistan coast. Clinical signs of infected seals included debilitation, muscle spasms, ocular and nasal exudation, and sneezing. Necropsies performed in June 2000 on eight Azerbaijan seals revealed microscopic lesions, including bronchointerstitial pneumonia, encephalitis, pancreatitis, and lymphocytic depletion in lymphoid tissues. Similar lesions were also discovered on four seals from Kazakhstan. "Morbillivirus" antigen was also detected in multiple tissues, including lung, lymph nodes, spleen, brain pancreas, liver, and epithelial tissue of the reproductive,
US biologists eye unusual deaths of Alaska ice seals. [SEP] Alaska SeaLife Center // and invertebrates—some of which have been listed as threatened or endangered species. The Alaska SeaLife Center specializes in marine mammal and sea bird research on species including Steller sea lions, eiders, harbor seals, sea otters, fur seals and other species experiencing population declines in Alaska. Research strives to develop cutting-edge technology and techniques, while minimizing impact on the species and environment being studied. The Science Department currently includes dedicated programs for pinnipeds (seals and sea lions), eiders, sea otters, and salmon. The Alaska SeaLife Center provides care for sick and injured marine animals, yielding important information about wildlife populations. Through
US biologists eye unusual deaths of Alaska ice seals. [SEP] NOAAS George B. Kelez (R 441) // July 1962 attended by Kelez′s mother and brother. Kelez, a fisheries scientist who was the Assistant Fisheries Administrator for the Territory of Alaska, was one of five Fish and Wildlife Service employees who died on duty in the crash of a Grumman Goose amphibious aircraft in Alaska on 1 September 1954, and the ship carried a plaque – read aloud at the ceremony – that read: United States Bureau of Commercial Fisheries Motor Ship "George B. Kelez" To inspire those who man her and those who follow her course in the great international seas, this research ship is hereby dedicated
US biologists eye unusual deaths of Alaska ice seals. [SEP] Brian Davies (activist) // year which saw a total of 182,758 seals killed for their pelts and fat On returning to his base in Prince Edward Island, Davies found two live seal pups on the shoreline that had been taken there by sealers. He took them to his home in Oromocto where they were raised by the Davies family. A local paper ran a story on their efforts to save the seals, resulting in national media attention and an influx of funding with which the Davies would run the “Save the Seals” campaign. In 1969 the NB SPCA withdrew from the seal campaign, having
US biologists eye unusual deaths of Alaska ice seals. [SEP] Spotted seal // 200,000 seals in or adjacent to Alaska, are not in danger of becoming extinct, nor are they likely to become so in the "foreseeable future", even though global warming has caused a loss in arctic ice mass. The announcement stated: "We do not predict the expected fluctuations in sea ice will affect them enough to warrant listing at this time." In South Korea, spotted seals have been designated Natural Monument No. 331 and second-class endangered species. This is because the seals from South Korea travel to Dalian, China to breed every year where several thousands are harvested for their genitals
US biologists eye unusual deaths of Alaska ice seals. [SEP] Sealand of the Pacific // least one of the females (Haida II) were cited as possible causes. Sealand of the Pacific closed shortly after the incident, in November 1992. All three of the whales were sold to SeaWorld in the United States. Tilikum and Nootka IV went to SeaWorld Orlando, while Haida II and her baby Kyuquot went to SeaWorld San Antonio. Kyuquot remains in captivity at SeaWorld. Haida II died in August 2001, while Nootka IV died in 1994. Tilikum died in January 2017. Sealand of the Pacific Sealand of the Pacific was a public aquarium in South Oak Bay at The Oak Bay
States look to lower drug costs, consider Canadian imports. [SEP] Canada–United States trade relations // of US$10.5 billion cost to businesses in delays and uncertain travel time have affected trade. One ongoing and complex trade issue involves the importation of cheaper prescription drugs from Canada to the United States. Due to the Canadian government's price controls as part of their Single-payer medical system, prices for prescription drugs can be a fraction of the price paid by consumers in the unregulated U.S. market. While laws in the United States have been passed at the national level against such sales, specific state and local governments have passed their own legislation to allow the trade to continue. American
States look to lower drug costs, consider Canadian imports. [SEP] Consumer import of prescription drugs // in another. People in the United States have easy access to Canada. The quality of medicine in Canada is comparable to that of the United States. Drug prices are often much lower in Canada than in the United States. To save money, some consumers in the United States seek to purchase drugs in Canada. Different people have published different perspectives on this practice. One major on-line supplier, CanadaDrugs.com, has announced it will close on July 13, 2018 as part of an agreement with the U.S. Department of Justice. Consumers may feel that prescription drugs which are available to multiple countries
States look to lower drug costs, consider Canadian imports. [SEP] Pharmacy // to U.S. consumers, who pay one of the world's highest drug prices. In recent years, many consumers in the US and in other countries with high drug costs, have turned to licensed Internet pharmacies in India, Israel and the UK, which often have even lower prices than in Canada. In the United States, there has been a push to legalize importation of medications from Canada and other countries, in order to reduce consumer costs. While in most cases importation of prescription medications violates Food and Drug Administration (FDA) regulations and federal laws, enforcement is generally targeted at international drug suppliers,
States look to lower drug costs, consider Canadian imports. [SEP] Online pharmacy // from online pharmacies in Canada." According to a Wall Street Journal/Harris Online poll in 2006, 80 percent of Americans favor importing drugs from Canada and other countries. Factors independently associated with importation by U.S. residents are age greater than 45 years, south or west region of residence, Hispanic ethnicity, college education, poor or near poor poverty status, lack of U.S. citizenship, travel to developing countries, lack of health insurance, high family out-of-pocket medical costs, trouble finding a healthcare provider, fair or poor self-reported health status, filling a prescription on the Internet, and using online chat groups to learn about health.
States look to lower drug costs, consider Canadian imports. [SEP] Healthcare in Canada // a form of cancer, and was not life-threatening. In fact, the mortality rate for patients with a Rathke's cleft cyst is zero percent. Some US citizens travel to Canada for health care related reasons. These reasons frequently involve seeking lower costs. Many US citizens purchase prescription drugs from Canada, either over the Internet or by traveling there to buy them in person, because prescription drug prices in Canada are substantially lower than prescription drug prices in the United States; this cross-border purchasing has been estimated at $1 billion annually. Because medical marijuana is legal in Canada but illegal in most
States look to lower drug costs, consider Canadian imports. [SEP] Health care reforms proposed during the Obama administration // room and coming to an agreement, with the government stepping in to set prices if they fail. Congressional proponents argue that drugs manufactured overseas by U.S. companies could be imported and purchased more cheaply in the U.S. Drug manufacturers argue that certain foreign countries have price controls, which they recoup by charging higher prices in the U.S. Whitehouse spokesman Robert Gibbs said President Obama is supportive of importing drugs, provided safety concerns related to the drugs can be addressed. This is because drugs manufactured outside the country may be held to different standards. According to Bloomberg News, drugmakers agreed in
States look to lower drug costs, consider Canadian imports. [SEP] Comparison of the healthcare systems in Canada and the United States // cost of drugs in the United States. In the U.S., $728 per capita is spent each year on drugs, while in Canada it is $509. At the same time, consumption is higher in Canada, with about 12 prescriptions being filled per person each year in Canada and 10.6 in the United States. The main difference is that patented drug prices in Canada average between 35% and 45% lower than in the United States, though generic prices are higher. The price differential for brand-name drugs between the two countries has led Americans to purchase upward of $1 billion US in drugs
States look to lower drug costs, consider Canadian imports. [SEP] Healthcare in Canada // classes in 2009 and sixth in 2013. The drugs studied were selected on the basis that the conditions treated had high incidence, prevalence and/or mortality, caused significant long-term morbidity and incurred high levels of expenditure and significant developments in prevention or treatment had been made in the last 10 years. The study noted considerable difficulties in cross border comparison of medication use. A 2017 cost-effectiveness analysis by the Fraser Institute showed that "although Canada ranks among the most expensive universal-access health-care systems in the OECD, its performance for availability and access to resources is generally below that of the average
States look to lower drug costs, consider Canadian imports. [SEP] Prescription drug prices in the United States // in this group of countries. Low levels of drug spending in Canada are not solely attributable to the regulatory activities of the government, but also the actions of provincial and private insurance plans. These plans prevents price inflation through formulary management, independent clinical review of new products, reference-based pricing, the LCA, and limited use program. In reviewing formularies, the drug program reviews the therapeutic advantage of one product over the existing formulary, and only adds new drugs if program costs are unchanged. The reference-based pricing entails having a “reference product” for each category that is the baseline price, and utilizes
States look to lower drug costs, consider Canadian imports. [SEP] Prescription drug prices in the United States // lower cost prescription drugs from foreign countries – as done by 2% of U.S. consumers in 2011 and 2012 – is likely not an effective public health solution. However, if the federal government modified reimportation laws, the FDA could conduct a comprehensive assessment on manufacturing standards in other countries, and allow importation of drugs that meet or exceed U.S. safety standards for drug manufacturing. Prescription drug prices in the United States Prescription drug prices in the United States have been among the highest in the world. The high cost of prescription drugs became a major topic of discussion in the
Malaysia vaccinating for polio after first case in 27 years . [SEP] Poliomyelitis eradication // India recorded just 66 cases in 2005, down from 135 cases reported in 2004, 225 in 2003, and 1,600 in 2002. Yemen, Indonesia and Sudan, countries that had been declared polio-free since before 2000, each reported hundreds of cases—probably imported from Nigeria. On 5 May 2005, news reports broke that a new case of polio was diagnosed in Java, Indonesia, and the virus strain was suspected to be the same as the one that has caused outbreaks in Nigeria. New public fears over vaccine safety, which were unfounded, impeded vaccination efforts in Indonesia. In summer 2005 the WHO, UNICEF and
Malaysia vaccinating for polio after first case in 27 years . [SEP] Poliomyelitis eradication // making Pakistan polio-free was holding district health officials properly accountable—in national eradication campaigns officials had hired their own relatives, even young children. "How do you expect a seven-year-old thumb-sucking kid to implement a polio campaign of the government," said Dr Gezari. He added that, in spite of this, "the first national campaign was initiated by your government in 1994 and that year Pakistan reported 25,000 polio cases, and the number was just 198 last year, which clearly shows that the programme is working." One factor contributing to the continued circulation of polio immunization programs has been opposition in some countries.
Malaysia vaccinating for polio after first case in 27 years . [SEP] Poliomyelitis // The last case of polio in the region was in India in January 2011. Since January 2011, there have been no reported cases of the wild polio infections in India, and in February 2012 the country was taken off the WHO list of polio endemic countries. It was reported that if there are no cases of wild polio in the country for two more years, it would be declared as a polio-free country. On 27 March 2014 the WHO announced the eradication of poliomyelitis in the South-East Asia Region, which includes eleven countries: Bangladesh, Bhutan, North Korea, India, Indonesia, Maldives,
Malaysia vaccinating for polio after first case in 27 years . [SEP] Poliomyelitis // in 1994. In June 2018, it was reported that first polio case in Venezuela in 30 years had occurred, in the state of Delta Amacuro. Laboratory testing confirmed that the incident was in fact not caused by polio. In 2000 polio was declared to have been officially eliminated in 37 Western Pacific countries, including China and Australia. Despite eradication ten years before, an outbreak was confirmed in China in September 2011 involving a strain prevalent in neighboring Pakistan. Europe was declared polio-free in 2002. On 1 September 2015, WHO confirmed 2 cases of circulating vaccine-derived poliovirus type 1 in Ukraine.
Malaysia vaccinating for polio after first case in 27 years . [SEP] Poliomyelitis in Pakistan // channels to make people aware of the problems facing people affected by the disease. Opposition to the polio vaccination program by militant groups continues to thwart the success of eradication efforts. In 2014, the number of polio cases reached 306, the highest it has been since 2000. In August 2015, the country launched an injectable polio vaccine intended to treat four million children and bring Pakistan closer to its goal of eradication by 2016. While the new vaccine is pricier than the traditional oral polio vaccine (OPV) and requires that a doctor or nurse administer it, the injection needs only
Malaysia vaccinating for polio after first case in 27 years . [SEP] Health in Malaysia // administered by a school nurse or a team of other medical staff from outside the school. All the children in a given school year are vaccinated as a cohort. For example, children may receive the oral polio vaccine in Year One of primary school (about six or seven years of age), the BCG in Year Six, and the MMR in Form Three of secondary school. Therefore, most people have received their core vaccines by the time they finish secondary school. Health in Malaysia Malaysia is classified by The World Bank as upper middle income country and is attempting to achieve
Malaysia vaccinating for polio after first case in 27 years . [SEP] Poliomyelitis eradication // the WHO announced that after a 10-month ban on polio vaccinations, Kano had pledged to restart the campaign in early July. During the ban the virus spread across Nigeria and into 12 neighboring countries that had previously been polio-free. By 2006, this ban would be blamed for 1,500 children being paralyzed and had cost $450 million for emergency activities. In addition to the rumors of sterility and the ban by Nigeria's Kano state, civil war and internal strife in the Sudan and Côte d'Ivoire have complicated WHO's polio eradication goal. In 2004, almost two-thirds of all the polio cases in
Malaysia vaccinating for polio after first case in 27 years . [SEP] Poliomyelitis eradication // and 20 in Afghanistan. There were 32 circulating vaccine-derived poliovirus (cVDPV) cases in 2015. On 25 September 2015, the WHO declared that Nigeria was no longer considered endemic for wild polio virus, with no reported case of wild polio virus having been reported since 24 July 2014. A WPV1 strain not seen in 5 years resurfaced in Nigeria the following year. WPV2 was declared eradicated in September 2015 as it has not been seen since 1999 and WPV3 may be eradicated as it has not been seen since 2012. cVDPV type 2 was still causing paralysis in some countries due
Malaysia vaccinating for polio after first case in 27 years . [SEP] India National PolioPlus // Tamil Nadu (India) for a pilot Polio vaccination campaign. 1988: The World Health Assembly launches the Global Polio Eradication Initiative - (GPEI). 1994: The Regional Commission certifies the Americas polio-free. A pilot Polio immunization activity is conducted in Delhi targeting 1.4 million children in the age groupof 0–3 years. 1995: Govt. of India launches its first nationwide polio campaign - NID (National Immunization Day), immunizing 88 million children in the agegroupof 0–3 years. 1996: NIDs conducted covering children up to the age of five years. 1997: National Polio Surveillance Project, a WHO and Government of India collaboration, set up for
Malaysia vaccinating for polio after first case in 27 years . [SEP] Poliomyelitis eradication // as twelve others. Polio transmission recurred in Angola, Chad and the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Kenya reported its first case since 2009, while China reported 21 cases, mostly among the Uyghurs of Hotan prefecture, Xinjiang, the first cases since 1994. The total number of wild-virus cases reported in 2012 was 223, lower than any previous year. These were limited to five countries—Nigeria, Pakistan, Afghanistan, Chad, and Niger—of which all except Nigeria had fewer cases than in 2011. Several additional countries, Chad, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Somalia and Yemen, saw outbreaks of circulating vaccine-derived polio. The last reported type
Biogen's secret campaign to bring its Alzheimer's drug back from the ashes. [SEP] Biogen // candidates for Alzheimer's disease, which have the potential to reduce Aβ plaques that form in the brains of patients, as well as to slow the formation of new plaques, potentially improving symptoms and suppressing disease progression. Biogen also has since 2015 an agreement with AGTC for the development of gene therapy for ophthalmologic diseases such as X-linked retinoschisis (XLRS) and X-linked Retinitis pigmentosa (XLRP), and up to three other genetic diseases. To this aim, Biogen paid AGTC $124 million, including an equity investment of $30 millions, and up to 1,1 billion in future milestones. Biogen Biogen Inc. (previously known as
Biogen's secret campaign to bring its Alzheimer's drug back from the ashes. [SEP] Oklahoma Medical Research Foundation // Association of Independent Research Institutes. Its scientists focus on research in the areas of immunology, cardiovascular biology and diseases of aging. In 2000, Jordan J.N. Tang and colleagues created an inhibitor that, in vitro, stopped the enzyme thought to cause Alzheimer's disease. The biotechnology company CoMentis has since built on that discovery to create an experimental drug for the treatment of Alzheimer’s. In 2007, Tang uncovered a molecular mechanism that links an Alzheimer’s susceptibility gene (known as E4) to the process of disease onset. In OMRF’s free radical biology and aging research program, Robert A. Floyd leads a team of
Biogen's secret campaign to bring its Alzheimer's drug back from the ashes. [SEP] Beta-secretase 1 // the Amyloid hypothesis) may help slow or stop Alzheimers disease. Several companies are in the early stages of development and testing of this potential class of treatment. In March 2008 phase I results were reported for CoMentis Inc's candidate CTS-21166. In April 2012 Merck & Co., Inc reported phase I results for its candidate verubecestat (MK-8931). Merck began a Phase II/III trial of MK-8931 in December, 2012 estimated to be completed in July 2019. In February 2017, Merck halted its late-stage trial of verubecestat for mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease after it was reported as having "virtually no chance" of
Biogen's secret campaign to bring its Alzheimer's drug back from the ashes. [SEP] Alzheimer's disease research // peptide. A gamma secretase inhibitor, semagacestat, failed to show any benefit to Alzheimer's disease patients in clinical trials. Tarenflurbil (MPC-7869, formerly R-flubiprofen) is a gamma secretase modulator sometimes called a selective amyloid beta 42 lowering agent. It is believed to reduce the production of the toxic amyloid beta in favor of shorter forms of the peptide. Negative results were announced regarding tarenflurbil in July 2008 and further development was canceled. , Amgen and Novartis had entered into a co-development agreement to progress the oral beta secretase inhibitor CNP520. PBT2 is an 8-hydroxy quinoline that removes copper and zinc from cerebrospinal
Biogen's secret campaign to bring its Alzheimer's drug back from the ashes. [SEP] Biogen // MS, Alzheimer's disease, neuropathic pain, spinal muscular atrophy and lupus nephritis: Biogen also has several development agreements in place with Ionis Pharmaceuticals to collaborate to leverage antisense technology in advancing the treatment of neurological disorders. In February 2012, Biogen formalized a joint venture with Samsung, creating Samsung Bioepis. This joint venture brings Biogen's expertise and capabilities in protein engineering, cell line development, and recombinant biologics manufacturing to position the joint venture so Biogen can participate in the emerging market for biosimilars. In early 2014, Biogen entered into an agreement with Eisai, Inc., to jointly develop and commercialize two of their
Biogen's secret campaign to bring its Alzheimer's drug back from the ashes. [SEP] Steven M. Paul // organize cooperation and funding from pharmaceutical companies in establishing the Alzheimer’s Disease Neuroimaging Initiative, a non-proprietary collaborative research effort to establish imaging biomarkers for Alzheimer's disease. In the early 2000s, Paul helped lead the company toward a new model of drug discovery and development that focused on getting proof of concept as early as possible in the research process, in order to avoid failures in Phase II clinical trials. As part of that effort he helped establish Lilly Chorus, an autonomous business unit that was created to design and execute studies that would allow drug candidates to "fail early" instead
Biogen's secret campaign to bring its Alzheimer's drug back from the ashes. [SEP] Alzheimer's Drug Discovery Foundation // Alzheimer’s have been shown to have some positive effect when tested in animals, most have not been tested in humans because of the high costs of even modest clinical trials. The ADDF’s Program to Accelerate Clinical Trials (PACT) works to accelerate this process, to date giving 32 clinical stage programs the chance to generate safety and “proof-of-concept” data. The PACT program also supports targeted approaches to prevention as well as clinical biomarker development. Through PACT, the ADDF is funding a number of “repurposing” clinical trials, whereby drugs developed for other indications (e.g., diabetes) are tested for their effectiveness in Alzheimer's
Biogen's secret campaign to bring its Alzheimer's drug back from the ashes. [SEP] Neurodegeneration // mild-to-moderate disease. With CONCERT, the remaining Pfizer and Medivation Phase III trial for Dimebon (latrepirdine) in Alzheimer's disease failed in 2012, effectively ending the development in this indication. In another experiment using a rat model of Alzheimer's disease, it was demonstrated that systemic administration of hypothalamic proline-rich peptide (PRP)-1 offers neuroprotective effects and can prevent neurodegeneration in hippocampus amyloid-beta 25–35. This suggests that there could be therapeutic value to PRP-1. Protein degradation offers therapeutic options both in preventing the synthesis and degradation of irregular proteins. There is also interest in upregulating autophagy to help clear protein aggregates implicated in neurodegeneration.
Biogen's secret campaign to bring its Alzheimer's drug back from the ashes. [SEP] Dimethyl fumarate // for MS, and in 2010 the Danish company Forward Pharma acquired Aditech's patents. Meanwhile, Biogen continued developing its oral formulation of DMF from Fumapharm under the code name BG-12; it was approved, under the trade name Tecfidera, for the treatment of adults with relapsing forms of MS in March 2013. Biogen priced the drug at $54,000 per year in the US. It was approved in Europe in 2014. In the UK NICE issued a guidance recommending the drug as cost-effective, but only if person does not have highly active or rapidly evolving severe relapsing–remitting multiple sclerosis and only if Biogen
Biogen's secret campaign to bring its Alzheimer's drug back from the ashes. [SEP] Paul Aisen // the litigation was ongoing. He has been a strong proponent of the amyloid hypothesis and as of 2017 believed that earlier intervention with drugs against amyloid might show more efficacy than interventions when the disease process is well underway, and has helped initiate large trials to test ways to prevent Alzheimers. He has served as a consultant or advisor for pharmaceutical companies like Eli Lilly and Janssen, smaller biotech companies exploring alternative approaches to AD like Anavex, Proclara, CohBar, and Neurophage, as well as nonprofits like ACT-AD. He is a principle investigator in the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative. In November
Officials worry about Nebraska children’s health care fund. [SEP] Roy Baker (politician) // learned to manage on a limited budget as a school superintendent, and that he would be one of the few legislators who understood Nebraska's state-aid-to-schools formula. On specific issues, Baker supported the proposed expansion of Medicaid in Nebraska under the provisions of the 2010 Affordable Care Act; Tiemann was inclined to oppose the expansion, lest the federal government renege on its pledge to reimburse states for the increased costs. Baker supported retaining a state law offering in-state tuition rates to persons who were residing illegally in the United States after being brought into the country as children, and who were
Officials worry about Nebraska children’s health care fund. [SEP] Mark Kolterman // Legislature and a member of the Republican Party, was barred by Nebraska's term-limits law from running for a third consecutive term. At the time of his announcement of candidacy, Kolterman stated that he favored some sort of expansion of Medicaid, which funds medical expenses for low-income people, if it could be done cost-effectively. In subsequent campaign materials and interviews, he declared that he was entirely opposed to the 2010 Affordable Care Act, and that "I do not support expanding [M]edicaid or other social welfare programs"; his opposition, he stated, was based in part on his belief that the federal government
Officials worry about Nebraska children’s health care fund. [SEP] Ben Nelson // reimbursement scheme was derided by the measure's opponents as the "Cornhusker Kickback". Among those denouncing the provision was Dave Heineman, Nebraska's Republican governor. To these criticisms, Nelson responded that he had been attempting to eliminate an unfunded federal mandate upon the states, and that the Nebraska item was a "placeholder", intended from the start to be replaced by a revision that would provide reimbursement for the increased Medicaid costs of all states. Pro-life organizations also responded negatively to Nelson's vote. Nebraska Right to Life decried the anti-abortion language in the health-care bill as "bogus", and in April 2010 declared that
Officials worry about Nebraska children’s health care fund. [SEP] Tom White (Nebraska politician) // schools, White helped filibuster a state aid reduction bill that would have disproportionately impacted his constituents. White told senators during debate that they shouldn't stop at least trying to close the gap in funding between minority children and white children. "If you (stop trying), we're going to get into a lawsuit and it is going to cost us far more than sitting and making a compromise right now," he said. White, a native of Columbus, Nebraska, introduced an innovative bill to deal with the challenges of education funding in small-town Nebraska. His proposal, the Business Partnership in Rural Education Program,
Officials worry about Nebraska children’s health care fund. [SEP] Children's Health Fund // serving as the organization's executive director. CHF programs are committed to the full range of children's health care from health education and preventative care to the diagnosis and management of acute and chronic diseases. CHF programs provide or coordinate care that fosters oral and mental health, as well as specialty or hospital care. In 1985, Dr. Redlener joined the board of USA for Africa as the organization’s medical director and director of grants, where he met Paul Simon. In 1987, Redlener and Simon founded Children's Health Fund to provide health care to homeless and medically underserved children in New York
Officials worry about Nebraska children’s health care fund. [SEP] Jon Bruning // create Nebraska’s Medicaid Fraud Unit. The Medicaid Fraud Unit recovered more than $20 million in 2012 and nearly $68 million since 2004. In 2005, Bruning launched a criminal probe of University of Nebraska Regent David Hergert related to campaign finances. In the same year, he charged a 20-year-old man with rape after his 14-year-old wife became pregnant. He served as President of the National Association of Attorneys General from 2009 to 2010. He traveled to Iraq as President of the National Association of Attorneys General (NAAG) and signed training agreement with Iraq Jurists Union. During a speech in August 2011,
Officials worry about Nebraska children’s health care fund. [SEP] Merv Riepe // much of its school district, as well as parts of Omaha's Millard neighborhood. Under Nebraska's term-limits law, incumbent Steve Lathrop was ineligible to run in the 2014 election. Three candidates entered the race. Riepe, a Republican, stated that he was particularly concerned about health-care issues, and opposed to the proposed expansion of Medicaid in Nebraska under the provisions of the 2010 Affordable Care Act. Greg Hosch, a Democrat, was the general manager of Horsemen's Park, an Omaha horse-racing track. He had never sought office before, but had lobbied for the racing industry's interests at the Legislature. He stated that he
Officials worry about Nebraska children’s health care fund. [SEP] Children's Health Fund // Children's Health Fund Children's Health Fund (CHF) is a non-profit organization that provides health care to children and families on mobile medical clinics throughout the United States. CHF was founded in 1987 by singer/songwriter Paul Simon and pediatrician/advocate Irwin Redlener, M.D.. The organization began with a single mobile medical unit funded by Simon and designed by Redlener's wife, Karen. More than 20 years later, the organization has 23 programs with more than 50 mobile medical units and is the nation's leading provider of mobile-based health care for homeless and low-income children and their families. Karen Redlener remains with CHF, currently
Officials worry about Nebraska children’s health care fund. [SEP] Michele Bachmann // $40 billion would go to the Children's Health Insurance Program, $15 billion would go to Medicare and Medicaid innovation programs, and $9.5 billion would go to the Community Health Centers Fund." As the funds are designated mandatory spending (they are not controlled by the annual appropriations acts), the funds would remain even if the move to defund the reform law succeeded. Bachmann stated that $16 billion of the money gives Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius a "slush fund ... [to do] whatever she wants with this money." She called on the bills supporters to return the money, "I
Officials worry about Nebraska children’s health care fund. [SEP] Jim Ward (Kansas politician) // number of people who get health care." In 2015, Ward called for an audit of the Kansas Department for Children and Families after several children died in state custody. He spoke to the Kansas Legislative Post Audit Committee on July 29, 2015: “In the last couple of years, I’ve been getting more and more and more concerns presented to me about supervision not being done, placements being changed fairly radically quickly, and care plans not being followed through with." Later in 2015, Ward requested another audit of DCF on the grounds that the agency was discriminating against same-sex couples who
Regarding the surgery that saved Jimmy Kimmel's son, "Medicaid has stopped providing this kind of service. [SEP] Jimmy Kimmel test // purplish appearance when he was three hours old. He underwent successful surgery at three days old. Kimmel's show, "Jimmy Kimmel Live!", was cancelled during the entire week of April 24 without public explanation so Kimmel could spend time with his family. Jimmy Kimmel returned to the air on May 1, 2017. Kimmel chose to focus on his son's birth and health condition in his first episode back, inviting cardiac surgeon Dr. Mehmet Oz onto his show to explain his son's condition. During the show's opening monologue, Kimmel referenced Congress' efforts to repeal parts of the 2010 Affordable Care Act, and
Regarding the surgery that saved Jimmy Kimmel's son, "Medicaid has stopped providing this kind of service. [SEP] Jimmy Kimmel test // for the Affordable Care Act, the American Health Care Act (AHCA). The bill was withdrawn on March 24, 2017 after it was certain that the House would fail to garner enough votes to pass it. The result was in-fighting within the Republican Party. However, deliberations on the American Health Care Act continued. William ("Billy") John Kimmel, the son of comedian and late-night talk show host Jimmy Kimmel, was born on April 21, 2017. The infant was born with a rare congenital heart defect, tetralogy of Fallot (TOF) with pulmonary atresia, which was first detected by a nurse who noticed his
Regarding the surgery that saved Jimmy Kimmel's son, "Medicaid has stopped providing this kind of service. [SEP] Bill Cassidy // in 1883. On May 8, 2017, Cassidy appeared on "Jimmy Kimmel Live!" to discuss health care in the United States. He said that any legislation that he would support must meet the "Jimmy Kimmel test", namely: "Would a child born with congenital heart disease be able to get everything he or she would need in that first year of life?" Kimmel had earlier chastised Republicans for voting to repeal the Affordable Care Act and replace it with legislation that would not ensure protection for children such as his newborn, who was born with a heart defect that required immediate surgery.
Regarding the surgery that saved Jimmy Kimmel's son, "Medicaid has stopped providing this kind of service. [SEP] Graham–Cassidy health care amendment // The amendment would also redistribute federal money differently to different states, with some states that expanded Medicaid under the ACA (which are generally Democratic) losing federal money to states that did not (which are generally Republican). In May 2017, late night comedy host Jimmy Kimmel shared with his audience that his son was born with tetralogy of Fallot, a birth defect of the heart. Shortly after, Cassidy began claiming that he wanted any health care bill to pass what he dubbed the "Jimmy Kimmel test," which he defined as "would a child born with congenital heart disease be able to
Regarding the surgery that saved Jimmy Kimmel's son, "Medicaid has stopped providing this kind of service. [SEP] Brian Kilmeade // Kilmeade responded to Kimmel: "I hope your son gets better. I hope your son gets all the care he needs. I'm glad you're interested, you're doing a great job bringing the dialogue out. But you should do what we're doing. Talk to the people that wrote it [the Graham-Cassidy healthcare bill]." On June 22, 2018, Kilmeade on "Fox & Friends" defended the Trump administration family separation policy by saying, "Like it or not, these are not our kids" in reference to foreign-born children who had been separated from their parents and put in detainment. In 2018, Kilmeade criticized Leslie Stahl
Regarding the surgery that saved Jimmy Kimmel's son, "Medicaid has stopped providing this kind of service. [SEP] Jimmy Kimmel test // the possibility that repeal would lead to individuals with pre-existing medical conditions losing their health insurance: Kimmel's monologue received substantial attention in the news and on social media. Within 24 hours, video of the monologue was viewed over 14 million times and received over 230,000 reactions on Facebook. The video was retweeted by former President Obama and former Presidential candidate Hillary Clinton. On May 4, the House of Representatives passed the AHCA (which would repeal portions of the ACA), sending the bill to the Senate. On Friday, May 5, United States Senator Bill Cassidy told CNN that he would decide
Regarding the surgery that saved Jimmy Kimmel's son, "Medicaid has stopped providing this kind of service. [SEP] Brian Kilmeade // tacos?" On June 3, 2014, Kilmeade made a reference about Bowe Bergdahl's father on air, stating, “I mean, he says he was growing his beard because his son was in captivity. Well, your son’s out now. So if you really don’t want to no longer look like a member of the Taliban, you don’t have to look like a member of the Taliban. Are you out of razors?" On September 20, 2017, Kilmeade commented on Emmy Awards host Jimmy Kimmel's criticism of the Republican-controlled Senate's attempts to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act by saying, “Sunday’s politically charged Emmys
Regarding the surgery that saved Jimmy Kimmel's son, "Medicaid has stopped providing this kind of service. [SEP] Wesley Warren Jr. // Medicaid, which would involve cutting away the swollen tissue and performing reconstructive surgery, including skin grafts to restore his penis and testicles. However, Warren was advised that they might have to be removed along with the tissue. This was not welcome news: "Basically, he was telling me there was a good chance that I would be castrated and have to go to the bathroom through a tube for the rest of my life. I really would like to have a relationship with a woman. I should be in the prime of my life right now." At a further evaluation at
Regarding the surgery that saved Jimmy Kimmel's son, "Medicaid has stopped providing this kind of service. [SEP] Kim Sullivan Hughes // life-threatening heart valve replacement surgery, something sure to alter her and Bob's life for years. During this time she had an out of body experience where she would see her life if she had died on the operating table. In addition, Kim was injured in a church bombing and was in a coma for a time. She recovered with a new appreciation for her family and friends and a new commitment to make a difference in their lives. On this note, Kim donated her bone marrow to Hope Snyder. Kim was later shocked to learn that Hope was her very
Regarding the surgery that saved Jimmy Kimmel's son, "Medicaid has stopped providing this kind of service. [SEP] Brian Kilmeade // may have been the lowest-rated in history, but that’s not stopping Hollywood elites like comedian Jimmy Kimmel from pushing their politics on the rest of the country.” This prompted Kimmel to call Kilmeade a "phony little creep." Kimmel, who has often referenced his son's congenital heart defect in his comments regarding health care, said of Kilmeade: “Oh, he’s such a fan "—" I think he’s been on the show. He follows me on Twitter; he asked me to write a blurb for his book, which I did; he calls my agent looking for projects. He’s dying to be a member
The snakehead fish can survive on land. [SEP] Snakehead (fish) // TV series "River Monsters", Jeremy Wade shows a dramatization of a snakehead, "the fish from hell", stalking an unsuspecting baby and Chihuahua. With the help of a snakehead researcher, however, Wade shows that although it is capable of living outside of water and is able to move on land, its weak pectoral muscles make movement difficult and render the snakehead an unlikely "stalker" on land. Snakehead (fish) The snakeheads are members of the freshwater perciform fish family Channidae, native to parts of Africa and Asia. These elongated, predatory fish are distinguished by their long dorsal fins, large mouths, and shiny
The snakehead fish can survive on land. [SEP] Borna snakehead // dried streams in forests.” This is a manifestation of behavior common to snakeheads – they need atmospheric air, which they receive by way of a suprabranchial organ (a primitive form of a labyrinth organ). From a young age, "C. amphibeus" can survive in a low-oxygen water habitat, but if deprived of surface access, adult snakeheads can die from the lack of oxygen. Due to its smaller size (in comparasion to other snakeheads), the Chel snakehead is slightly easier to keep in aquaria. However, there have been several episodes when snakeheads have been released into non-endemic environments, and the danger of
The snakehead fish can survive on land. [SEP] Ceylon snakehead // Ceylon snakehead The Ceylon snakehead ("Channa orientalis") is a snakehead species. They are freshwater fish that grow to a maximum size of approximately , so are a member of the informal dwarf snakeheads. They originate from southwest of the island of Sri Lanka. They are predatory fish that feed on plankton, insects, and sometimes small amphibians. They can breathe on land for short periods of time because they have accessory respiratory organs through which they can use atmospheric oxygen to breathe. During wet weather, they can survive on land for more than four days, but if their bodies dry up,
The snakehead fish can survive on land. [SEP] Snakehead (fish) // Snakehead (fish) The snakeheads are members of the freshwater perciform fish family Channidae, native to parts of Africa and Asia. These elongated, predatory fish are distinguished by their long dorsal fins, large mouths, and shiny teeth. They breathe air with gills, which allows them to migrate short distances over land. They have suprabranchial organs which develop when they grow older, which are primitive forms of labyrinth organs. The two extant genera are "Channa" in Asia and "Parachanna" in Africa, consisting of about 40 species. They are valuable as a food source and have become notorious as an intentionally released invasive
The snakehead fish can survive on land. [SEP] Lake Erie // have been described as "greedy giants that suck plankton from the water with the brutal efficiency of vacuum cleaners" and scientists worry that they may unravel the "aquatic food web" by crowding out other species. There was concern in 2007 that snakehead fish could get into the Great Lakes area. Officials warn that if the fish invades, it could "decimate the aquatic food chain". A YouTube video mentioned in a newspaper account has a man claiming that the fish could "bite your entire hand off". The fish can reach in length and "survive out of water for four days" and
The snakehead fish can survive on land. [SEP] Snakehead (fish) // development of the Intertropical Convergence Zone, which increased air humidity, and the intensification of the East Asian monsoon. Both weather patterns emerged due to greater vertical growth of the Alps, Pyrenees, and Himalayas, which affected Eurasian climatic patterns. Snakeheads can become invasive species and cause ecological damage because in many areas to which they are not native the absence of natural enemies gives them apex predator status. Not only can they breathe air, but they can also survive on land for up to four days, provided they are wet, and are known to migrate up to 400 m (1/4 mi)
The snakehead fish can survive on land. [SEP] Ceylon snakehead // they die because it become difficult for them to exchange atmospheric oxygen. They are hardy fish that can survive environmental changes and have a good tolerance to high acidity in water. The Ceylon snakehead is, according to existing reports, a mouth brooder like many Channa species. The male carries the eggs while the female guards the territory. The male is less active during this period and is often seen close to the surface. The fry remain with the male until they can take care of themselves. Females may catch stray fry and return them to the mouth of the male.
The snakehead fish can survive on land. [SEP] Snakehead (fish) // on wet land to other bodies of water by wriggling with their bodies and fins. "National Geographic" has referred to snakeheads as "fishzilla" and the National Geographic Channel reported the "northern snakehead reaches sexual maturity by age two or three. Each spawning-age female can release up to 15,000 eggs at once. Snakeheads can mate as often as five times a year. This means in just two years, a single female can release up to 150,000 eggs." "Since 2002, it has been illegal to possess a live snakehead in many US states, where they are considered a destructive invasive species." Virginia
The snakehead fish can survive on land. [SEP] Northern snakehead // pale areas around it. The northern snakehead is a freshwater species and cannot tolerate salinity in excess of ten parts per million. It is a facultative air breather; it uses a suprabranchial organ and a bifurcated ventral aorta that permits aquatic and aerial respiration. This unusual respiratory system allows it to live outside of water for several days; it can wriggle its way to other bodies of water or survive being transported by humans. Only young of this species (not adults) may be able to move overland for short distances using wriggling motions. The preferred habitats of this species are
The snakehead fish can survive on land. [SEP] Northern snakehead // killed all fish present in the water body to prevent the spread of the highly invasive snakehead. The chemical breaks down rapidly, and has a half-life in water of 1-3 days. In 2012, a snakehead was found in a pond in Burnaby, British Columbia, but further study revealed that it had been released three months or less before its capture and it was a blotched snakehead or perhaps a hybrid involving that species. Unlike the northern snakehead, which potentially can establish a population in parts of Canada, the blotched snakehead generally only lives in warmer waters. Before its exact identity
More than 1,000 people ... move to Texas every day. [SEP] Demographics of Texas // deaths), net immigration, and net migration. The state passed New York in the 1990s to become the second-largest U.S. state in population, after California. Texas' population growth between 2000 and 2010 represents the highest population increase, by number of people, for any U.S. state during this time period. The large population increase can somewhat be attributed to Texas' relative insulation from the US housing bubble. The state has a bigger population than that of Australia. As of 2012, the state has an estimated 4.1 million foreign-born residents, constituting approximately 15% of the state population An estimated 1.7 million people are
More than 1,000 people ... move to Texas every day. [SEP] Texas // percentage of any state in the country. In 2015, the population of illegal immigrants living in Texas was around 800,000. Texas's Rio Grande Valley has seen significant migration from across the U.S.–Mexico border. During the 2014 crisis, many Central Americans, including unaccompanied minors traveling alone from Guatemala, Honduras, and El Salvador, reached the state, overwhelming Border Patrol resources for a time. Many sought asylum in the United States. In 2009, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security estimated 1.68 million illegal immigrants lived in Texas. While the number of illegal immigrants living in the U.S. has declined since 2009, in Texas
More than 1,000 people ... move to Texas every day. [SEP] Demographics of Texas // but not all Texans share this view of Christian religious doctrine. Austin, the state capital, is perceived as a more secular and liberal community. Other religious groups in Texas include Jewish Texans. Most of the state's estimated 128,000 Jews live in or around Dallas and Houston. Six Texas cities have populations greater than 500,000, including the two global cities of Dallas and Houston. Texas has 25 metropolitan areas, with four having populations over 1 million and two over 6 million. Texas also has 3 of the 10 cities in the U.S. with populations greater than 1 million, and is tied
More than 1,000 people ... move to Texas every day. [SEP] Texas // American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). NAFTA has encouraged the formation of controversial maquiladoras on the Texas–Mexico border. The United States Census Bureau estimates the population of Texas was 27,469,114 on July 1, 2015, a 9.24 percent increase since the 2010 United States Census. As of 2004, the state had 3.5 million foreign-born residents (15.6 percent of the state population), of which an estimated 1.2 million are illegal immigrants. Texas from 2000 to 2006 had the fastest growing illegal immigration rate in the nation. In 2010, illegal immigrants constituted an estimated 6.0 percent of the population. This was the fifth highest
More than 1,000 people ... move to Texas every day. [SEP] Hispanics and Latinos in Houston // have 60 border crossers coming to our offices. It's unprecedented. What's challenging is we don't want to turn down anyone who comes to our doors, so we've really scrambled to come up with a team to handle this surge." The American Community Survey from the US Census Bureau reported that there were approximately 25 250 Cubans living in Houston-The Woodlands-Sugar Land Metropolitan Statistical Area in 2013. The five Houston agencies providing resettlement services for newcomers assisted almost 4,500 Cubans refugees in fiscal year 2014 and until March 2015 the agencies had served 3,022 refugees. During the first 10 months of
More than 1,000 people ... move to Texas every day. [SEP] Demographics of Texas // Demographics of Texas Texas is the second most populous U.S. state, with an estimated 2017 population of 28.449 million. In recent decades, it has experienced strong population growth. Texas has many major cities and metropolitan areas, along with many towns and rural areas. Much of the population is in the major cities of Houston, San Antonio, Dallas, Fort Worth, Austin, and El Paso. The 2010 US Census recorded Texas as having a population of 25.1 million—an increase of 4.3 million since the year 2000, involving an increase in population in all three subcategories of population growth: natural increase (births minus
More than 1,000 people ... move to Texas every day. [SEP] Texas // population growth by 20.6 percent, but Hispanics growth by 65 percent, whereas non-Hispanic whites only grew by 4.2 percent. Texas has the fifth highest rate of teenage births in the nation and a plurality of these are to Hispanics. The state has three cities with populations exceeding one million: Houston, San Antonio, and Dallas. These three rank among the 10 most populous cities of the United States. As of 2010, six Texas cities had populations greater than 600,000 people. Austin, Fort Worth, and El Paso are among the 20 largest U.S. cities. Texas has four metropolitan areas with populations greater
More than 1,000 people ... move to Texas every day. [SEP] Texas // 62,000 Koreans, there are 18,000 Japanese Americans living in the state. Lastly, over 111,000 people are of other Asian ancestry groups, such as Cambodian, Thai, and Hmong. Sugar Land, a city within the Houston metropolitan area, and Plano, within the Dallas metropolitan area, both have high concentrations of ethnic Chinese and Korean residents. The Houston and Dallas areas, and to a lesser extent, the Austin metropolitan area, all contain substantial Vietnamese communities. Americans with origins from the Pacific are the smallest minority in Texas. According to the survey, only 18,000 Texans are Pacific Islanders; 16,400 are of non-Hispanic descent. There
More than 1,000 people ... move to Texas every day. [SEP] Juneteenth // with them, increasing by the thousands the enslaved population in the state at the end of the Civil War. Although most enslaved people lived in rural areas, more than 1000 resided in both Galveston and Houston by 1860, with several hundred in other large towns. By 1865, there were an estimated 250,000 enslaved people in Texas. The older, and Hispanic, town of San Antonio had 168 among a population of 3,436. The news of General Robert E. Lee's surrender on April 9 reached Texas later in the month. The Army of the Trans-Mississippi did not surrender until June 2. On
More than 1,000 people ... move to Texas every day. [SEP] Texas // there was no change in population between 2009 and 2014. Texas's population density is 90.5 people per square mile (34.9/km) which is slightly higher than the average population density of the U.S. as a whole, at 80.6 people per square mile (31.1/km). In contrast, while Texas and France are similarly sized geographically, the European country has a population density of 301.8 people per square mile (116.5/km). Two-thirds of all Texans live in a major metropolitan area such as Houston. The Dallas-Fort Worth Metropolitan Area is the largest in Texas. While Houston is the largest city in Texas and the fourth
WWE wrestler Ric Flair was declared brain dead on 16 May 2019. [SEP] Astrocytoma // Rally Championship, was diagnosed with astrocytoma in 2003. Four years to the day after winning the World Rally Championship, on 25 November 2005, Burns died in Westminster, London, aged 34, after having been in a coma for some days as a result of his brain tumour. Professional wrestler Matt Cappotelli was diagnosed with a grade 2/3 astrocytoma in December 2005, scuttling plans to promote Cappottelli to the main WWE roster. Cappotelli, who won a contract with WWE through the third season of their reality program Tough Enough, was the Ohio Valley Wrestling Heavyweight Champion at the time of his diagnosis
WWE wrestler Ric Flair was declared brain dead on 16 May 2019. [SEP] Ric Flair // WWE adopting the ring name, Charlotte (which was later changed to include the Flair surname). On March 29, 2013, Reid died from an accidental overdose of heroin, Xanax and a muscle relaxer. In December 2005, a judge issued arrest warrants for Flair after a road rage incident that took place in Charlotte, North Carolina in which Flair allegedly got out of his car, grabbed a motorist by the neck, and kicked the door off the motorist's sport utility vehicle. Flair was charged with two misdemeanors, injury to personal property and simple assault and battery. This incident was ridiculed on WWE
WWE wrestler Ric Flair was declared brain dead on 16 May 2019. [SEP] Ron Bass (wrestler) // in Florida's construction market. He also became an Amway salesman in the Tampa area. He had one son. In July 2016, Heard was named part of a class action lawsuit filed against WWE which alleged that wrestlers incurred traumatic brain injuries during their tenure and that the company concealed the risks of injury. The suit is litigated by attorney Konstantine Kyros, who has been involved in a number of other lawsuits against WWE. In March 2017, Heard was hospitalized due to a burst appendix. He died on March 7 at the age of 68 due to complications following surgery. Ron
WWE wrestler Ric Flair was declared brain dead on 16 May 2019. [SEP] Ric Flair // reconciled and were friends until Sammartino's passing in 2018. Ric Flair Richard Morgan Fliehr (born February 25, 1949), better known as Ric Flair, is an American professional wrestling manager and retired professional wrestler signed to WWE under its Legends program. Described by many sources as the greatest professional wrestler of all time and the best American performer of the 1980s, Flair had a career that spanned 40 years. He is noted for his tenures with Jim Crockett Promotions (JCP), World Championship Wrestling (WCW), the World Wrestling Federation (WWF, later WWE) and Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA). Since the mid-1970s, he
WWE wrestler Ric Flair was declared brain dead on 16 May 2019. [SEP] Ric Flair // for our country. And I'm here to excite the crowd". Flair endorsed Ted Cruz during the 2016 presidential election. Flair has a heart condition called alcoholic cardiomyopathy. On August 14, 2017, Flair had surgery in Georgia to remove an obstructive piece of his bowel, which led to various complications, most seriously kidney failure, necessitating dialysis treatment and ongoing hospitalization. He was discharged from rehabilitation and allowed to return home on September 21. Flair engaged in an off-screen rivalry with Bret Hart. In October 1993, Hart gave a radio interview in which he said Flair "sucks" and described his workplace, WCW,
WWE wrestler Ric Flair was declared brain dead on 16 May 2019. [SEP] Ric Flair // next match Flair lost would result in a forced retirement. Later in the night, Flair defeated Orton after a distraction by Chris Jericho. It was revealed on the 15th anniversary of "Raw" that the win or retire ultimatum only applied in singles matches. Flair won several "career threatening" matches against the opponents such as Triple H, Umaga, William Regal, Mr. Kennedy, and Vince McMahon himself among others. On March 29, 2008, Flair was inducted into the WWE Hall of Fame as a part of the class of 2008 by Triple H. The day after, Flair wrestled at WrestleMania XXIV in
WWE wrestler Ric Flair was declared brain dead on 16 May 2019. [SEP] Ric Flair // his match against Sting. Flair continued to make appearances for TNA until April 2012. In April 2012, Flair tried to have his TNA contract terminated, which led to TNA filing a lawsuit against WWE for contract tampering and eventually firing Flair on May 11. Having been inactive since his September 2011 injury, Flair announced in a December 3, 2012 interview that he would never wrestle again, owing chiefly to an on-air heart attack suffered by age peer Jerry Lawler following a "Raw" match three months earlier. On March 31, 2012, while still contracted to TNA, Flair became the first person
WWE wrestler Ric Flair was declared brain dead on 16 May 2019. [SEP] Ric Flair // Horsemen, he is also a member of the NWA Hall of Fame, Professional Wrestling Hall of Fame, and Wrestling Observer Newsletter Hall of Fame. Flair is officially recognized by WWE as a 16-time world champion (eight-time NWA World Heavyweight Champion, six-time WCW World Heavyweight Champion, and two-time WWF Champion), although the number of his world championship reigns varies by source, ranging from 16 to 25. He has claimed to be a 21-time champion. He was the first holder of the WCW World Heavyweight Championship and the WCW International World Heavyweight Championship (which he also held last). As the inaugural WCW
WWE wrestler Ric Flair was declared brain dead on 16 May 2019. [SEP] Randy Anderson // Jett and Anderson. According to story line Randy Anderson was still fired when Ric Flair became WCW President in 1999 and reinstated him. Anderson continued as a referee in WCW until his battle with cancer forced him to retire in 1999. Anderson was an amateur wrestler in high school, winning a state championship in the 119-lb class. Anderson was diagnosed with testicular cancer at the age of 36. He was diagnosed after recognizing his symptoms while reading a medical magazine. Because of a malignant tumor, he had to have his left testicle removed. Anderson died on May 5, 2002 as
WWE wrestler Ric Flair was declared brain dead on 16 May 2019. [SEP] Ric Flair // Ric Flair Richard Morgan Fliehr (born February 25, 1949), better known as Ric Flair, is an American professional wrestling manager and retired professional wrestler signed to WWE under its Legends program. Described by many sources as the greatest professional wrestler of all time and the best American performer of the 1980s, Flair had a career that spanned 40 years. He is noted for his tenures with Jim Crockett Promotions (JCP), World Championship Wrestling (WCW), the World Wrestling Federation (WWF, later WWE) and Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA). Since the mid-1970s, he has used the moniker "The Nature Boy". A major
Pulsed radiofrequency relieves acute back pain and sciatica [SEP] Targeted radiofrequency ablation // Targeted radiofrequency ablation Targeted radiofrequency ablation (also written t-RFA) is a minimally invasive procedure to treat severe pain and discomfort caused from metastatic tumors in the vertebral body of the spine. This procedure uses radiofrequency energy to target and ablate a specific spinal tumor, causing it shrink and reduce the pressure on the surrounding nerves and tissues. The procedure minimizes damage to the vertebrae and surrounding tissues. It is used as a palliative therapy rather with the intention of treating the cancer itself. Targeted radiofrequency ablation was first developed by DFINE, Inc., a medical device company based in San Jose,
Pulsed radiofrequency relieves acute back pain and sciatica [SEP] Targeted radiofrequency ablation // physician to the targeted tumor. The physician can then deliver the energy to heat and destroy metastatic spinal tumor cells. The procedure minimizes damage to surrounding tissue and vital structures and has been shown to provide pain relief in a single treatment. A 2013 study published in the Journal of NeuroInterventional Surgery showed that t-RFA was an effective method of pain relief with low morbidity. Patients in the study also reduced their requirements of pain relieving drugs after receiving the treatment and also regained the ability to perform movements that they were previously restricted from due to the pain. Another
Pulsed radiofrequency relieves acute back pain and sciatica [SEP] Pulsed radiofrequency // treatment of tumors, cardiac arrhythmias, chronic and post-operative pain, bone fracture, and soft tissue wounds. There are two general categories of pulsed radiofrequency field therapies based on their mechanism of action: thermal and non-thermal (athermal). While thermal radiofrequency ablation for tumors and cardiac arrhythmia has been used for over 25 years, non-thermal pulsed radio frequency is currently being developed for the ablation of cardiac arrhythmias and tumors. The technique uses pulsed radio frequency energy delivered via catheter at frequencies of 300–750 kHz for 30 to 60 seconds. Thermal pulsed radio frequency takes advantage of high current delivered focally by an
Pulsed radiofrequency relieves acute back pain and sciatica [SEP] Radiofrequency ablation // Unlike other electrosurgical devices, RFA allows very specific treatment targeting of the desired tissue with a precise line of demarcation that avoids collateral damage, which is crucial in the head and neck region due to its high density of major nerves and blood vessels. RFA also does not require high temperatures. However, overheating from misapplication of RFA can cause harmful effects such as coagulation on the surface of the electrode, boiling within tissue that can leave "a gaping hole", tears, or even charring. RFA, or rhizotomy, is sometimes used to treat severe chronic pain in the lower (lumbar) back, where
Pulsed radiofrequency relieves acute back pain and sciatica [SEP] Pulsed radiofrequency // electrode to ablate the tissue of interest. Generally the tissue/electrode temperature reached is 60 to 75 °C resulting in focal tissue destruction. Thermal pulse radio frequency ablation has also been used for lesioning of peripheral nerves to reduce chronic pain. Non thermal therapeutic uses of pulsed radio frequency are currently being used to treat pain and edema, chronic wounds, and bone repair. Pulsed radiofrequency therapy technologies are described by the acronyms EMF (electromagnetic field), PEMF (pulsed electromagnetic fields), PRF (pulsed radiofrequency fields), and PRFE(pulsed radiofrequency energy). These technologies have been varied in terms of their electric and magnetic field energies
Pulsed radiofrequency relieves acute back pain and sciatica [SEP] Radiofrequency ablation // radio frequency waves are used to produce heat on specifically identified nerves surrounding the facet joints on either side of the lumbar spine. By generating heat around the nerve, the nerve gets ablated thus destroying its ability to transmit signals to the brain. The nerves to be ablated are identified through injections of local anesthesia (such as lidocaine) prior to the RFA procedure. If the local anesthesia injections provide temporary pain relief, then RFA is performed on the nerve(s) that responded well to the injections. RFA is a minimally invasive procedure which can usually be done in day-surgery clinics, going
Pulsed radiofrequency relieves acute back pain and sciatica [SEP] Pain management // Journal", was unable to quantify the difference in the effect on pain of real, sham and no acupuncture. Research has not found evidence that light therapy such as low level laser therapy is an effective therapy for relieving low back pain. Interventional procedures - typically used for chronic back pain - include epidural steroid injections, facet joint injections, neurolytic blocks, spinal cord stimulators and intrathecal drug delivery system implants. Pulsed radiofrequency, neuromodulation, direct introduction of medication and nerve ablation may be used to target either the tissue structures and organ/systems responsible for persistent nociception or the nociceptors from the structures
Pulsed radiofrequency relieves acute back pain and sciatica [SEP] Radiofrequency ablation // including the femoral nerve, or by using an intra-articular procedure. Whether for back or knee pain, a drawback for this procedure is that nerves recover function over time, so the pain relief achieved lasts only temporarily (3–15 months) in most people. Radiofrequency ablation has been shown to be a safe and effective treatment for Barrett's esophagus. The balloon-based radiofrequency procedure was invented by Robert A. Ganz, Roger Stern and Brian Zelickson in 1999 (System and Method for Treating Abnormal Tissue in the Human Esophagus). While the person is sedated, a catheter is inserted into the esophagus and radiofrequency energy is
Pulsed radiofrequency relieves acute back pain and sciatica [SEP] Targeted radiofrequency ablation // 2013 study published in the Journal of Vascular and Interventional Radiology showed that patients receiving the procedure had reduced pain where traditional treatment methods were unsuccessful. A third study published in 2013 showed that t-RFA allowed treatment of lesions that were not controlled by either radiation therapy or systemic therapy. A 2014 study published in the Journal of Vascular and Interventional Radiology showed a decrease in tumor volume and metabolic activity in all 34 patients who received the treatment. The ability to provide localized t-RFA of metastatic lesions of the spine may provide rapid and lasting pain relief, enabling patients
Pulsed radiofrequency relieves acute back pain and sciatica [SEP] Targeted radiofrequency ablation // to restore their quality of life with minimal, if any, delay in systemic, curative therapy of their primary cancer. As compared to radiation, which often requires multiple visits, the procedure provides patients with pain relief from metastatic spinal tumors in a single, minimally invasive treatment. The STAR System potentially minimizes additional VCFs due to radiation related bone fragility as well as the side effects of radiation. This procedure can be performed in addition to chemotherapy, radiation therapy or other therapies that are ongoing to treat the primary cancer often allowing the patient the tolerance to continue their therapy. Targeted radiofrequency
The government "knowingly" injected a birth defect-inducing vaccine into epidurals between 2010 and 2014 to hurt Black women [SEP] African Americans and birth control // and nearly 56 percent of those were performed on black women under 20 years of age. Aside from government actions, abuses of power also took place in the American medical establishment. One of the most infamous examples of such abuses was the actions of South Carolina physician, Dr. Clovis Pierce. After accepting federal money to perform the sterilizations of 18 Medicaid patients in his clinic, he told women that he would only deliver their third pregnancy on the condition that they would submit to sterilization immediately afterwards. Pierce was able to defend himself against all lawsuits that were brought against
The government "knowingly" injected a birth defect-inducing vaccine into epidurals between 2010 and 2014 to hurt Black women [SEP] Sybil Shainwald // litigation. In the 1980s she traveled internationally to educate women on the toxicity of Depo Provera, a drug manufactured by Upjohn Corporation. Though not approved by the FDA for contraceptive use, these birth control shots, given every three months, were marketed in 80 foreign countries and, through legal loopholes, to poor, minority, and mentally incapacitated women in the U.S. as well. Shainwald estimated that 20,000 American women were prescribed this drug, linked to cancer in lab animals, as a contraceptive and to treat PMS and endometriosis, and were not told about its side effects. She called its distribution "human experimentation
The government "knowingly" injected a birth defect-inducing vaccine into epidurals between 2010 and 2014 to hurt Black women [SEP] Bonnie S. Dunbar // with an option for birth control that was not invasive in our hormones or our systems or otherwise have the side effects we now see with a lot of contraceptive methods." In February 1991, Dr. Dunbar received a patent on such a vaccine while affiliated with Zonagen. In 1994, Dunbar filed a lawsuit accusing Baylor College of Medicine, the Houston-based law firm Fulbright & Jaworski, Zonagen, and a group of investors of forcing her to relinquish patent rights to this vaccine. In 1999, the parties reached a settlement; the terms were not disclosed, but Dunbar said she was "very happy"
The government "knowingly" injected a birth defect-inducing vaccine into epidurals between 2010 and 2014 to hurt Black women [SEP] Contraceptive patch // other injuries. In November 2005, CBS News aired a story about documents that surfaced in a lawsuit involving a young mother who was paralyzed by a stroke and remained a total invalid, which showed the company had received nearly 500 reports of adverse events between April 2002 and December 2004. During the same time frame, only 61 adverse event reports were filed in connection with all type of birth-control pills. The parents of a 14-year-old girl from Wisconsin have filed a lawsuit against Johnson & Johnson because they claim that she died from a blood clot that arose from her
The government "knowingly" injected a birth defect-inducing vaccine into epidurals between 2010 and 2014 to hurt Black women [SEP] John Njue // anyone of us". In March 2014, Njue advised against participation in a free government program to vaccinate women of reproductive age against tetanus. He said that targeting women was "fishy". Other critics suggested the program was a disguised form of birth control. Government health officials said they were accustomed to such rumors from the government's critics. He led the Kenyan bishops in a campaign against the WHO-sponsored vaccination program, asserting that the vaccine was designed to lower fertility. In June 2017, at a celebration of Family Day, Njue criticized men who put roadblocks in the way of marriages by making
The government "knowingly" injected a birth defect-inducing vaccine into epidurals between 2010 and 2014 to hurt Black women [SEP] Project Coast // contaminate the water supply. The attempt failed because of the high chlorine content in the treated water at the camp. Research on birth control methods to reduce the black birth rate was one such area. Daan Goosen, the managing director of Roodeplaat Research Laboratories between 1983 and 1986, told Tom Mangold of the BBC that Project Coast supported a project to develop a contraceptive that would have been applied clandestinely to blacks. Goosen reported that the project had developed a vaccine for males and females and that the researchers were still searching for a means by which it could be
The government "knowingly" injected a birth defect-inducing vaccine into epidurals between 2010 and 2014 to hurt Black women [SEP] National Childhood Vaccine Injury Act // by establishing a claim procedure involving the United States Court of Federal Claims and special masters. In the 1970s and 1980s, a controversy erupted related to the question of whether the whole-cell pertussis component caused permanent brain injury in rare cases, called pertussis vaccine encephalopathy. No studies showed a causal connection, and later studies showed no connection of any type between the DPT vaccine and permanent brain injury. The alleged vaccine-induced brain damage proved to be an unrelated condition, infantile epilepsy. In 1990, the "Journal of the American Medical Association" called the connection a "myth" and "nonsense". However, before that
The government "knowingly" injected a birth defect-inducing vaccine into epidurals between 2010 and 2014 to hurt Black women [SEP] Unethical human experimentation // Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval before being marketed to consumers. Additionally, informed consent became a participation requirement and rules were put into place. This regulation was influenced by the results of 1950 use of thalidomide in Western Europe for pregnant women. They were prescribed the sedative thalidomide, which was inaccurately marketed as a morning sickness treatment. Women gave birth to more than 12,000 infants born with deformities due to effects from the drug in utero. In the Tuskegee syphilis experiment from 1932 to 1972, the United States Public Health Service contracted with the Tuskegee Institute for a long-term study
The government "knowingly" injected a birth defect-inducing vaccine into epidurals between 2010 and 2014 to hurt Black women [SEP] Progestin-induced virilization // July 22, 1977, the FDA published a notice requiring a black box warning on all progestogen drugs (except contraceptives) to warn against their use during the first four months of pregnancy because of reports of non-genital birth defects. On January 12, 1989, after determining that progestogens did "not" cause non-genital birth defects, the FDA published a notice revising the black box warning on all progestogen drugs (except contraceptives) to warn against their use during the first four months of pregnancy because of past reports of genital birth defects (an increased risk of hypospadias in male fetuses and mild virilization of
The government "knowingly" injected a birth defect-inducing vaccine into epidurals between 2010 and 2014 to hurt Black women [SEP] Black genocide // Marvin Davies, leader of the Florida chapter of the NAACP, said that black women should reject birth control and produce more babies so that black political influence would increase in the future. The Pill was considered expensive by working class women; the first users were upper- and middle-class women. After President Lyndon B. Johnson, as part of his War on Poverty, obtained legislation in 1964 for government funding of birth control, Black militants became more concerned about a possible government-sponsored black genocide. Cecil B. Moore, head of the NAACP chapter in Philadelphia, spoke out against a Planned Parenthood program which
China reports one more H7N9 bird flu death. [SEP] Influenza A virus subtype H7N9 // winter seasons. In August, Guangdong province confirmed its first case of H7N9 bird flu, a 51-year-old woman in critical condition after having been admitted to a hospital on August 3. , China reported to the WHO that "rare and sporadic human infections with H7N9" have been reported with "the total number of cases reported to 137, including 45 deaths" in China. The CDC and U.S. government H7N9 preparedness efforts have continued over the summer and are "continuing to watch this situation closely". , two cases of H7N9 were reported in Hong Kong. Hong Kong reported its first death from H7N9
China reports one more H7N9 bird flu death. [SEP] Avian influenza // thought that infections may pick up again when the weather turns cooler in China. In the four years from early 2013 to early 2017, 916 lab-confirmed human cases of H7N9 were reported to WHO. On 9 January 2017, the National Health and Family Planning Commission of China reported to WHO 106 cases which occurred from late November through December. 29, 2016. The cases are reported from Jiangsu (52), Zhejiang (21), Anhui (14), Guangdong (14), Shanghai (2), Fujian (2) and Hunan (1). 80 of these 106 persons have visited live poultry markets. Of these cases, there have been 35 deaths. In
China reports one more H7N9 bird flu death. [SEP] Influenza A virus subtype H7N9 // cases of H7N9 avian flu in mainland China following the hospitalization of a 79-year-old woman from China's Jiangxi province, bringing the count to 131 cases. The Ministry of Health of People's Republic of China reported on July 10 that in the month of June, there was only 1 confirmed case, and there were a total of 132 confirmed cases in Mainland China as of June 30, 2013 (43 fatal, 85 patient recovery cases). Though there is a slow increase in the number of cases, China recently warned that the transmission of H7N9 virus might be active again by autumn and
China reports one more H7N9 bird flu death. [SEP] Avian influenza // Health and Family Planning Commission of China reported to WHO 106 cases of H7N9 which occurred from late November through late December, including 35 deaths, 2 potential cases of human-to-human transmission, and 80 of these 106 persons stating that they have visited live poultry markets. The cases are reported from Jiangsu (52), Zhejiang (21), Anhui (14), Guangdong (14), Shanghai (2), Fujian (2) and Hunan (1). Similar sudden increases in the number of human cases of H7N9 have occurred in previous years during December and January. The most widely quoted date for the beginning of recorded history of avian influenza (initially
China reports one more H7N9 bird flu death. [SEP] Influenza A virus subtype H7N9 // and no [bird] exposure history is elicited, this does point slightly more to the possibility that H7N9 may be more transmissible between humans than H5N1". On January 28, 2014, it was reported by the Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention that the virus had killed 20 people in China in 2014, with the total number of human infections at 102. That is comparable to 144 confirmed cases, including 46 deaths, in the whole of 2013. At the end of January, more than half of the cases in 2014 had been in Zhejiang, with another 24 in Guangdong, and eight
China reports one more H7N9 bird flu death. [SEP] Influenza A virus subtype H7N9 // no evidence of ongoing human-to-human transmission. On April 13, a seven-year-old girl from Beijing was the first confirmed case of H7N9 bird flu outside eastern China. On April 14, Xinhua Chinese state media reported two human cases in central Henan just west of the area where the disease had been centered. Totals included 61 infected and 13 dead. On April 14, Chinese officials also reported the first asymptomatic case in Beijing. A health department notice suggested that a 4-year-old boy had no clinical symptoms and was tested during surveillance of high-risk groups. On April 17, a total of 82 cases
China reports one more H7N9 bird flu death. [SEP] Influenza A virus subtype H7N9 // deaths. On April 24, a case was confirmed by the Taiwanese Government, marking the first case outside of China. On April 25, the National Health and Family Planning Commission said that a total of 109 H7N9 cases had been reported within mainland China, including 23 deaths. However, Anne Kelso, director of the WHO Collaborating Centre for Reference and Research on Influenza, VIDRL, Australia, reported that researchers had seen a "dramatic slowdown" in human cases in Shanghai after the city's live poultry markets were closed on April 6. On the following day, cases in mainland China rose to 118. On April
China reports one more H7N9 bird flu death. [SEP] Influenza A virus subtype H7N9 // 28, four provinces, Zhejiang, Shandong, Jiangxi, and Fujian, reported new cases, raising the total number of cases in mainland China to 125 with 24 deaths. On May 2, there were 127 confirmed cases in mainland China, of which 27 were fatal, and including the case in Taiwan there were a total of 128 cases worldwide. On May 6, in a weekly update, China's Ministry of Health announced there were 129 confirmed cases in mainland China with 31 deaths, for a total of 130 cases worldwide. On May 7, Hong Kong's Centre for Health Protection reported that there were 130 confirmed
China reports one more H7N9 bird flu death. [SEP] Influenza A virus subtype H7N9 // slaughtering all birds. Poultry trading areas in two other areas of the Minhang district were also closed. On April 6, 2013, all Shanghai live poultry markets closed temporarily in response to the H7N9 found in the pigeon samples. The same day, Hangzhou also closed its live poultry markets. After gene sequence analysis, the national avian flu reference laboratory concluded that the strain of the H7N9 virus found on pigeons was highly congenic with those found on persons infected with H7N9 virus, the ministry said. On April 22, 2013, "Forbes" quoted Chinese state media reporting $2.7 billion in poultry industry losses.
China reports one more H7N9 bird flu death. [SEP] Influenza A virus subtype H7N9 // When January 2014 brought a dramatic increase in reports of disease, the Chinese government responded by halting live poultry trading in three cities in Zhejiang province where 49 cases and 12 deaths had been reported. In addition, live poultry trading in Shanghai was halted for three months. In Hong Kong, authorities reacted to the discovery of H7N9 in live chickens from the province of Guangdong by suspending imports of fresh poultry from mainland China for 21 days, culling 20,000 chickens, and other measures in an effort to control the spread of the virus. On February 18, 2014, it was announced
A 31-year-old Cincinnati woman was taken to the hospital after the 14-month-old toddler she was babysitting got stuck in her vaginal cavity. [SEP] Kidnapping of Carlina White // in the Lifetime film "". Carlina was 19 days old when her parents, Joy White and Carl Tyson, took her to the hospital with a fever of on August 4, 1987. She had swallowed fluid during her delivery and had an infection. A woman reportedly dressed as a nurse had comforted the parents at the hospital, but was not a hospital employee. The woman had been seen around the hospital for three weeks prior to the abduction. The baby disappeared during the early morning, around 2 am when the shifts were changing. The hospital had video surveillance, but at the
A 31-year-old Cincinnati woman was taken to the hospital after the 14-month-old toddler she was babysitting got stuck in her vaginal cavity. [SEP] Nia Glassie abuse case // mother, 34-year-old Lisa Michelle Kuka, told the hospital her injuries were the result of her falling off her partner's (then 17-year-old Wiremu Te Aroha Te Whanau Curtis) shoulders. It later emerged that her central North Island family, which was celebrating a 21st birthday, waited 36 hours after the toddler lapsed into a coma on the floor before taking her to the hospital. Even then Lisa continued to go out clubbing while her daughter lay dying in the hospital. During the trial, a doctor told the court that if the little girl had been taken to hospital as soon as she
A 31-year-old Cincinnati woman was taken to the hospital after the 14-month-old toddler she was babysitting got stuck in her vaginal cavity. [SEP] Coffin birth // discovered on a separate beach. When questioned by the media, medical authorities initially speculated that a "coffin birth" might have occurred. However, at autopsy the cervix was found to be in a prepartum condition. Medical examiners later concluded that while Peterson's body was in the bay, the skin over the abdominal cavity had ruptured due to natural decompositional processes. Seawater entered the abdominal cavity and washed out most of the internal organs, along with the fetus. In 2007, a 23-year-old woman in India, over eight months pregnant, hanged herself after contractions had begun. A viable infant was spontaneously delivered unassisted
A 31-year-old Cincinnati woman was taken to the hospital after the 14-month-old toddler she was babysitting got stuck in her vaginal cavity. [SEP] Cruzan v. Director, Missouri Department of Health // significant outcome of the case was the creation of advance health directives. On January 11, 1983, then-25-year-old Nancy Cruzan (July 20, 1957 - December 26, 1990) lost control of her car while driving at nighttime near Carthage, Missouri. She was thrown from the vehicle and landed face-down in a water-filled ditch. Paramedics found her with no vital signs, but they resuscitated her. After three weeks in a coma, she was diagnosed as being in a persistent vegetative state (PVS). Surgeons inserted a feeding tube for her long-term care. In 1988, Cruzan's parents asked her doctors to remove her feeding tube.
A 31-year-old Cincinnati woman was taken to the hospital after the 14-month-old toddler she was babysitting got stuck in her vaginal cavity. [SEP] Earl Bradley // months old to engage in intercourse and oral sex. It also revealed that Bradley had videotaped sexual assaults during which his victims "appeared to lose consciousness" from Bradley choking them by forcing oral sex on his child victims. The videos also show children in diapers screaming as they attempted to escape from Bradley before he raped them in an outbuilding on the property. Though his private lawyers quit after Delaware took steps to freeze his assets, Bradley was afforded a public defender and arraigned on March 24, 2010. He pleaded not guilty to all charges. A follow-up hearing was scheduled
A 31-year-old Cincinnati woman was taken to the hospital after the 14-month-old toddler she was babysitting got stuck in her vaginal cavity. [SEP] Death of Baby Falak // expected to be discharged. She was on ventilator for more than a month, as she had problems in breathing, and had suffered severe lung, blood and brain infections. Doctors had tried various combinations of antibiotics to control the infection that had shown results and the baby was taken off the ventilator and shifted into a ward on 2 March. The toddler had shown signs of recovery and doctors were calling her the "miracle baby" after she was taken off life support within weeks of being admitted. Nurses who took care of her said she was able to breathe on her
A 31-year-old Cincinnati woman was taken to the hospital after the 14-month-old toddler she was babysitting got stuck in her vaginal cavity. [SEP] Hope (2013 film) // in an abandoned public church restroom, and as the child resisted, he beat, strangled and attempted to drown her in a toilet until she lost consciousness. Her parents found Na-young near death, and she was taken to a local hospital where after an eight-hour surgery, she had a prolonged stay in the intensive care unit. Doctors said Na-young sustained irreversible damage to her genitals, anus and intestines, which initially required her to wear a colostomy bag to replace her missing organs. Cho was arrested three days after the incident; he was a habitual sex offender with 17 prior crimes, and
A 31-year-old Cincinnati woman was taken to the hospital after the 14-month-old toddler she was babysitting got stuck in her vaginal cavity. [SEP] Breastfeeding in public // in front of the restaurant and other public places. In June 2007, Brooke Ryan was dining in a booth at the rear of an Applebee's restaurant when she began to breastfeed her seven-month-old son. Although she attempted to be discreet, another patron complained to the manager about indecent exposure. Both a waitress and the manager asked her to cover up. She handed him a copy of the Kentucky law that permitted public breastfeeding, but he would not relent. She opted to feed her son in her car, and later organized "nurse-out" protests in front of the restaurant and other public
A 31-year-old Cincinnati woman was taken to the hospital after the 14-month-old toddler she was babysitting got stuck in her vaginal cavity. [SEP] John G. Schmitz // 1981, was treated at an Orange County hospital for an injured penis. A piece of hair was wrapped so tightly around the organ—"in a square knot," according to one doctor—that it was almost severed. The surgery went well and the baby suffered no permanent injury. However, the baby's mother, Carla Stuckle, a 43-year-old Swedish-born immigrant and longtime Republican volunteer, was not allowed to take John George home since some of the attending doctors were convinced the hair had been deliberately tied around his penis. Detectives threatened to arrest Carla and take John George away permanently unless she identified the father.
A 31-year-old Cincinnati woman was taken to the hospital after the 14-month-old toddler she was babysitting got stuck in her vaginal cavity. [SEP] Jeanne Weber // seven-year-old son. On 2 March 1905, Weber was babysitting for her sister-in-law, when one of the woman's two daughters — 18-month-old Georgette — suddenly "fell ill" and died. Strange bruises on her neck were ignored by the examining physician, and Weber was welcomed back to babysit on 11 March. Two-year-old Suzanne did not survive the visit, but a doctor blamed the second death on unexplained "convulsions." Weber was babysitting for her brother, on 25 March, when his daughter, seven-year-old Germaine, suffered a sudden attack of "choking," complete with red marks on her throat. The child survived that episode, but she
Johns Hopkins Hospital issued a "cancer update" detailing how cancer spreads and recommending methods for treating the disease. [SEP] Denis Wirtz // Initiative, and David Peters’ Global Health Signature Initiative. Wirtz also directs the Johns Hopkins Physical Sciences-Oncology Center (PSOC), also known as the Johns Hopkins Engineering in Oncology Center, which is part of a network of twelve centers in the United States funded by the National Institutes of Health’s National Cancer Institute to link the physical sciences with the study of cancer. When the center was established with a $14.8M grant in 2009, Wirtz stated, “"For too long, not enough room has been made for nonconventional and nonbiological concepts borrowed from modern physics and engineering to tackle this disease. It is
Johns Hopkins Hospital issued a "cancer update" detailing how cancer spreads and recommending methods for treating the disease. [SEP] Alternative cancer treatments // of unconventional cancer treatments in the United States has been influenced by the U.S. federal government's National Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine (NCCAM), initially known as the Office of Alternative Medicine (OAM), which was established in 1992 as a National Institutes of Health (NIH) adjunct by the U.S. Congress. Over thirty American medical schools have offered general courses in alternative medicine, including the Georgetown, Columbia, and Harvard university systems, among others. People who choose alternative treatments tend to believe that evidence-based medicine is extremely invasive or ineffective, while still believing that their own health could be improved. They are
Johns Hopkins Hospital issued a "cancer update" detailing how cancer spreads and recommending methods for treating the disease. [SEP] St. Francis Hospital (Columbus, Georgia) // The facilities include the medical office and digital imaging suites, an outpatient area for invasive pain management procedures, an outpatient rehabilitation facility, and an orthopaedic unit with private rooms for patient care. Breast cancer is typically treated by using a combination of local therapy as well as systemic therapy. The goal of local therapy is to destroy the cancer cells held in the breast as well as the related lymph nodes, which helps minimize the risk of recurrence. Systemic therapy involves destroying tumor cells that may have diluted into the circulation while at the same time it minimizes the risk
Johns Hopkins Hospital issued a "cancer update" detailing how cancer spreads and recommending methods for treating the disease. [SEP] Treatment of cancer // model of cancer progression, tumors grow locally, then spread to the lymph nodes, then to the rest of the body. This has given rise to the popularity of local-only treatments such as surgery for small cancers. Even small localized tumors are increasingly recognized as possessing metastatic potential. Examples of surgical procedures for cancer include mastectomy for breast cancer, prostatectomy for prostate cancer, and lung cancer surgery for non-small cell lung cancer. The goal of the surgery can be either the removal of only the tumor, or the entire organ. A single cancer cell is invisible to the naked eye but
Johns Hopkins Hospital issued a "cancer update" detailing how cancer spreads and recommending methods for treating the disease. [SEP] University of Maryland Marlene and Stewart Greenebaum Comprehensive Cancer Center // pilot studies and Phase I, II and III clinical trials. In addition to basic and clinical cancer research, cancer center activities include teaching and a strong focus on aggressive treatment for cancer patients in the 40-bed inpatient unit, dedicated Bone Marrow/Stem Cell Transplantation unit, and outpatient facility, which opened in 2005. The center has multidisciplinary clinical programs for all major cancers (breast, brain, cutaneous, head and neck, gastrointestinal, genitourinary, gynecological, hematologic malignancies, and thoracic cancer). The University of Maryland's cancer center began as the intramural program of the National Cancer Institute (NCI) of the NIH. In 1965, the NCI created
Johns Hopkins Hospital issued a "cancer update" detailing how cancer spreads and recommending methods for treating the disease. [SEP] Alvin J. Siteman Cancer Center // Bone marrow transplants Mid-1970s — Imaging 1954 — Growth factors and cancer 1946 — Radiocarbon in cancer research 1941 — Cyclotron 1933 — Lung cancer surgery and the disease’s link to smoking Siteman and Washington University School of Medicine are actively engaged in many projects to prevent cancer in the St. Louis region and across the United States. These efforts include: In addition to treatment and research programs, Siteman is involved with community outreach, education and screening. Efforts include: In 2017, Siteman Cancer Center launched the Siteman Cancer Network, an affiliation with regional medical centers that is aimed at improving
Johns Hopkins Hospital issued a "cancer update" detailing how cancer spreads and recommending methods for treating the disease. [SEP] Susan Halabi // that it spreads to can be used to predict the survival rate from the disease. Halabi earned her Ph.D. in biometry from the University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston in 1994, and joined the Duke faculty in 1996. She was named a fellow of the Society for Clinical Trials in 2014, "for her outstanding leadership in cancer clinical trials and prognostic development, ... educational activities, and for dedicated service on national review committees, DSMBs and scientific advisory committees and for the SCT". She was elected as a Fellow of the American Statistical Association in 2015. Susan Halabi Susan
Johns Hopkins Hospital issued a "cancer update" detailing how cancer spreads and recommending methods for treating the disease. [SEP] Anne Arundel Medical Center // which allows them to manipulate tiny instruments in spaces that are otherwise beyond their reach. Cancers are effectively treated by utilizing technologies such as Intensity Modulated Radiation Therapy (IMRT), high dose radiation (HDR) and Novalis stereotactic radiosurgery and radiotherapy. Noninvasive Novalis is especially useful for treating tumors in places too difficult to reach using conventional surgical methods. Using Positron Emission Tomography (PET) combined with Computed Tomography (CT) physicians can search for the distinct metabolic signature of cancer cells, plot the exact location, shape and size of a tumor, and recommend the best treatment. The Patient and Family Services program streamlines
Johns Hopkins Hospital issued a "cancer update" detailing how cancer spreads and recommending methods for treating the disease. [SEP] Harold E. Johns // treated for cervical cancer with a carefully calibrated dose of cobalt-60 radiation. In early 1952, "Maclean's" magazine had dubbed the cobalt-source radiotherapy machine the "cobalt bomb" - a tongue-in-cheek tribute to this peaceful use of nuclear technology. Johns's original treatment device was used in Saskatchewan until 1972. In 1956, Johns assumed the headship of the physics division of the Ontario Cancer Institute at Princess Margaret Hospital in Toronto. To further scientific and medical collaborations between radiologists, radiotherapists, physicians, and physicists, Johns guided the creation of the Graduate Department in Medical Biophysics at the University of Toronto in 1958. Johns served
Johns Hopkins Hospital issued a "cancer update" detailing how cancer spreads and recommending methods for treating the disease. [SEP] Neoadjuvant therapy // on undetected dissemination, resulting in improved longtime survival compared to the surgery-alone strategy. This systemic therapy (chemotherapy, immunotherapy or hormone therapy) or radiation therapy is commonly used in cancers that are locally advanced, and clinicians plan an operation at a later stage. The use of such therapy can effectively reduce the difficulty and morbidity of more extensive procedures. The use of therapy can turn a tumor from untreatable to treatable by shrinking the volume. Often, it is unclear which surrounding structures are directly involved in the disease and which are just showing signs of inflammation. By administering therapy, a distinction
Japan defends cautious approach on coronavirus testing amid concerns. [SEP] Middle East respiratory syndrome // pneumonia and acute renal failure. After routine diagnostics failed to identify the causative agent, Zaki contacted Ron Fouchier, a leading virologist at the Erasmus Medical Center (EMC) in Rotterdam, the Netherlands, for advice. Fouchier sequenced the virus from a sample sent by Zaki. Fouchier used a broad-spectrum "pan-coronavirus" real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) method to test for distinguishing features of a number of known coronaviruses (such as OC43, 229R, NL63, and SARS-CoV), as well as for RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp), a gene conserved in all coronaviruses known to infect humans. While the screens for known coronaviruses were all negative, the
Japan defends cautious approach on coronavirus testing amid concerns. [SEP] Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus // and were therefore delaying the development of diagnostic tests. Erasmus MC responded that the patent application did not restrict public health research into MERS coronavirus, and that the virus and diagnostic tests were shipped—free of charge—to all that requested such reagents. There are a number of mapping efforts focused on tracking MERS coronavirus. On 2 May 2014, the Corona Map was launched to track the MERS coronavirus in realtime on the world map. The data is officially reported by WHO or the Ministry of Health of the respective country. HealthMap also tracks case reports with inclusion of news and social
Japan defends cautious approach on coronavirus testing amid concerns. [SEP] Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus // risky. Not studying it is riskier." Dr. Zaki was fired from his job at the hospital as a result of bypassing the Saudi ministry of health in his announcement and sharing his sample and findings. At their annual meeting of the World Health Assembly in May 2013, WHO chief Margaret Chan declared that intellectual property, or patents on strains of new virus, should not impede nations from protecting their citizens by limiting scientific investigations. Deputy Health Minister Ziad Memish raised concerns that scientists who held the patent for the MERS-CoV virus would not allow other scientists to use patented material
Japan defends cautious approach on coronavirus testing amid concerns. [SEP] World Health Assembly // virus’s genetic makeup and closest relatives. The Erasmus Medical Center "tested, sequenced and identified" a sample provided by Ali Mohamed Zaki. Erasmus MC and Dr. Zaki strongly refuted all allegations concerning a presumed lack of willingness to cooperate in research into the new MERS coronavirus, making diagnostic tests and virus specimens freely available to all research institutions around the globe. The 67th WHA took place in Geneva on 19–24 May 2014. Among the more than 20 resolutions adopted by the Assembly included ones concerning strengthening of national drug management systems to address antimicrobial resistance; implementation of the Minamata Convention to
Japan defends cautious approach on coronavirus testing amid concerns. [SEP] Bovine coronavirus // nasal washes – which identifies the viral antigen. The haemagglutination inhibition test can be used to establish the strain of coronavirus. Animals should be treated symptomatically. The disease can be controlled by vaccinating the dam with a live vaccine (ATCvet code QI02) whilst she is pregnant as this provides antibodies to the virus in the colostrum. Additional management factors such as ensuring adequate colostrum intake in newborn calves, using appropriate hygiene methods and ventilation of housing reduce disease incidence. Bovine coronavirus Bovine coronavirus (BCV) is as a member of the Coronaviridae family which are enveloped, single-stranded, positive-sense RNA viruses with
Japan defends cautious approach on coronavirus testing amid concerns. [SEP] Middle East respiratory syndrome // based on the virus's RNA obtained from the Qatari case. On 25 September 2012, the WHO announced that it was "engaged in further characterizing the novel coronavirus" and that it had "immediately alerted all its Member States about the virus and has been leading the coordination and providing guidance to health authorities and technical health agencies." The Erasmus Medical Center (EMC) in Rotterdam "tested, sequenced and identified" a sample provided to EMC virologist Ron Fouchier by Ali Mohamed Zaki in November 2012. On 8 November 2012 in an article published in the New England Journal of Medicine, Dr. Zaki and
Japan defends cautious approach on coronavirus testing amid concerns. [SEP] Coronavirus // 2013, a case of contamination from human to human in France was confirmed by the French Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. In addition, cases of person-to-person transmission have been reported by the Ministry of Health in Tunisia. Two confirmed cases seem to have caught the disease from their late father, who became ill after a visit to Qatar and Saudi Arabia. By Oct. 30 2013, there were 124 cases and 52 deaths in Saudi Arabia. After the Dutch Erasmus Medical Centre sequenced the virus, the virus was given a new name, Human Corona Virus-Erasmus Medical Centre (HCoV-EMC). The final
Japan defends cautious approach on coronavirus testing amid concerns. [SEP] World Health Assembly // citizens by limiting scientific investigations. Following the 2012 MERS outbreak in Saudi Arabia, Deputy Health Minister Ziad Memish raised concerns that scientists who applied for a patent would not allow the MERS-coronavirus to be used for investigations by other scientists and were therefore delaying the development of diagnostic tests. Ten of the 22 people who died and 22 of 44 cases reported were in Saudi Arabia. Saudi Arabia–based microbiologist Ali Mohamed Zaki reported the first known case, a 60-year-old Saudi man who got sick in June, 2012 on ProMed-mail, a public health on-line forum then published more details including the
Japan defends cautious approach on coronavirus testing amid concerns. [SEP] Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus // to belong to the same species by the International Committee on Taxonomy of Viruses (ICTV). Strains: The virus grows readily on Vero cells and LLC-MK2 cells. The receptor for this virus is CD26 (dipeptidyl peptidase 4). Saudi officials had not given permission for Dr. Zaki, the first isolator of the human strain, to send a sample of the virus to Fouchier and were angered when Fouchier claimed the patent on the full genetic sequence of the Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus. The editor of "The Economist" observed, "Concern over security must not slow urgent work. Studying a deadly virus is
Japan defends cautious approach on coronavirus testing amid concerns. [SEP] Susan C. Baker // of their crown-like appearance under the electron microscope. Currently her lab is using a mouse model to test the function and inhibition of certain proteases involved in coronavirus infection. Baker has many published articles, mostly concerning Coronaviruses and Kawasaki Disease. The following are her most recent publications on these topics. In this study, the function of ubiquitin-like domains (Ubl) is studied. To find the function, structures of papain-like proteases (PLP) and domains of coronaviruses (CoVs) were studied. It was found that an adjacent Ubl domain was present in different CoV domains. This article shows the basis of the ubiquitin chain
Claims of virgin births in U.S. near 1 percent: study. [SEP] Amy H. Herring // and of first intercourse reported in separate questions by a sample of American women, and determined that according to this data one out of every 200 women in the US had given virgin birth. Herring stated that she found it "highly unlikely" that these women believed themselves to be virgins at the time of their children's births, and suggested that the result might instead be a combination of unintentional inaccuracies by the subjects and of respondents being unwilling to admit to having intercourse. In 2010, Herring was elected as a Fellow of the American Statistical Association. She won the Gertrude
Claims of virgin births in U.S. near 1 percent: study. [SEP] Legitimacy (family law) // to unmarried mothers, a significant increase from the 5% of half a century earlier. That includes 73% of non-Hispanic black children, 53% of Hispanic children (of all races), and 29% of non-Hispanic white children. In April 2009, the National Center for Health Statistics announced that nearly 40 percent of American infants born in 2007 were born to an unwed mother; that of 4.3 million children, 1.7 million were born to unmarried parents, a 25 percent increase from 2002. Most births to teenagers in the USA (86% in 2007) are nonmarital; in 2007, 60% of births to women 20–24, and nearly
Claims of virgin births in U.S. near 1 percent: study. [SEP] Rape and pregnancy statement controversies in United States elections, 2012 // a three-year longitudinal study of 4,000 American women, physician Melisa Holmes found that forced sexual intercourse causes over 32,000 pregnancies in the United States each year. That study revealed a pregnancy rate among women aged 12–45 of 5% of rapes and 6% of victims. A 1987 study also found a 5% pregnancy rate from rape of 18- to 24-year-old higher education students in the US. A 2005 study places the rape-related pregnancy rate at around 3–5%. Physician Felicia H. Stewart and economist James Trussell estimated that 333,000 assaults and rapes reported in the US in 1998 caused about 25,000 pregnancies,
Claims of virgin births in U.S. near 1 percent: study. [SEP] United States // 15 per 1,000 women aged 15–44 remain higher than those of most Western nations. In 2013, the average age at first birth was 26 and 40.6% of births were to unmarried women. The total fertility rate (TFR) in 2016 was 1.82 births per 1000 woman. Adoption in the United States is common and relatively easy from a legal point of view (compared to other Western countries). In 2001, with over 127,000 adoptions, the U.S. accounted for nearly half of the total number of adoptions worldwide. Same-sex marriage is legal nationwide, owing to the Supreme Court's 2015 decision in "Obergefell v.
Claims of virgin births in U.S. near 1 percent: study. [SEP] Sex-selective abortion // Islands (111), Vietnam (111), Albania (110), Grenada (110), San Marino (110), Georgia (108), Isle of Man (108), Kosovo (108) and Macedonia (108). The lowest boys to girls birth sex ratios in 2016 were estimated by CIA for Nauru (83), Kazakhstan (94), Barbados (101), Haiti (101), Aruba (102), Bermuda (102), Cayman Islands (102), Kenya (102), Malawi (102), Mozambique (102), Puerto Rico (102), Qatar (102), Saint Kitts and Nevis (102), and South Africa (102). The estimates for birth sex ratios, and thus derived sex-selective abortion, are a subject of dispute as well. For example, United States' CIA projects the birth sex ratio
Claims of virgin births in U.S. near 1 percent: study. [SEP] Demography of the United States // from 2007 to 2009 is believed to be associated with the Great Recession. A study by the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ) found that more than half (51 percent) of live hospital births in 2008 and 2011 were male. Per U.S. federal government data released in March 2011, births fell 4% from 2007 to 2009, the largest drop in the U.S. for any two-year period since the 1970s. Births have declined for three consecutive years, and are now 7% below the peak in 2007. This drop has continued through 2010, according to data released by the U.S. National
Claims of virgin births in U.S. near 1 percent: study. [SEP] Sex-selective abortion // at birth over the period 1970–2002 were 105 for the white non-Hispanic population, 104 for Mexican Americans, 103 for African Americans and Native Americans, and 107 for mothers of Chinese or Filipino ethnicity. Among Western European countries c. 2001, the ratios ranged from 104 to 107. In the aggregated results of 56 Demographic and Health Surveys in African countries, the birth sex ratio was found to be 103, though there is also considerable country-to-country, and year-to-year variation. In a 2005 study, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services reported sex ratio at birth in the United States from 1940 over
Claims of virgin births in U.S. near 1 percent: study. [SEP] Pregnancy from rape // pregnancies from rape vary widely. Recent estimates suggest that rape conception happens between 25,000 and 32,000 times each year in the U.S. In a 1996 three-year longitudinal study of 4,000 American women, physician Melisa Holmes estimated from data from her study that forced sexual intercourse causes over 32,000 pregnancies in the United States each year. Physician Felicia H. Stewart and economist James Trussell estimated that the 333,000 assaults and rapes reported in the US in 1998 caused about 25,000 pregnancies, and up to 22,000 of those pregnancies could have been prevented by prompt medical treatment, such as emergency contraception. A
Claims of virgin births in U.S. near 1 percent: study. [SEP] Sex-selective abortion // as Europe and United States. According to Sen, the high birth sex ratio over decades, implies a female shortfall of 11% in Asia, or over 100 million women as missing from the 3 billion combined population of South Asia, West Asia, North Africa and China. Other scholars question whether birth sex ratio outside 103-107 can be due to natural reasons. William James and others suggest that conventional assumptions have been: James cautions that available scientific evidence stands against the above assumptions and conclusions. He reports that there is an excess of males at birth in almost all human populations, and
Claims of virgin births in U.S. near 1 percent: study. [SEP] Birth rate // percent fewer unmarried births than states that are lax about getting unmarried dads to pay, the researchers found. Moreover, according to the results, if all 50 states in the United States had done at least as well in their enforcement efforts as the state ranked fifth from the top, that would have led to a 20 percent reduction in out-of-wedlock births. The United States population growth is at an historical low level as the United States current birth rates are the lowest ever recorded. The low birth rates in the contemporary United States can possibly be ascribed to the recession,
Mobile clinics seen as way to cut U.S. health bill. [SEP] Mobile technology in Africa // means enlisting donors and getting mobile networks on board. Internationally, companies such as TextToChange, FrontlineSMS, RapidSMS, Ushahidi all work with mobiles in health, disaster relief and aid management. mHealth is using mobile technology to provide groups with health information. It was pioneered in part by the UN Foundation and Vodafone Foundation through partnerships with the World Health Organization (WHO) and the social enterprise DataDyne, who then joined with other partners in forging the mHealth Alliance. mHealth activities come in the form of appointment reminders, community mobilization and health promotion, emergency toll-free telephone services, health call centres, health surveys, information initiatives
Mobile clinics seen as way to cut U.S. health bill. [SEP] Mobiles for development // that benefits everyone." According to a report by InfoDev, “[h]ealth conditions in rural areas are generally poorer, and access to information, services, and supplies is most limited.” With the rapid worldwide adoption of mobile technology, a range of health-related areas such as the improvement of public health information dissemination, the facilitation of remote consultation, diagnosis, and treatment, the sharing of a patient’s health information between health professional, and the monitoring and increased efficiency of public health systems have adopted and benefited from mobile based practices. Studies have suggested that the use of mobile capabilities such as text message reminders regarding
Mobile clinics seen as way to cut U.S. health bill. [SEP] Mobile Clinic (sports) // Mobile Clinic (sports) The Mobile Clinic is a medical emergency facility, created by Dr. Claudio Costa to rescue riders injured during motorcycle races. In 1976, on Costa's initiative and with funding from Gino Amisano, founder and owner of the AGV, the first vehicle specifically designed to provide rapid medical intervention to injured riders still on the track. The mobile clinic began on the race of the World Championship in Motorcycle Grand Prix of Austria, in Salzburg on 1 May 1977. During the race for the Class 350, Patrick Fernandez, Franco Uncini, Hans Stadelmann, Dieter Braun and Johnny Cecotto were involved
Mobile clinics seen as way to cut U.S. health bill. [SEP] Telehealth // their own homes as opposed to a care facility. Mobile health includes any health information, such as education, monitoring and care, that is present on and supported by mobile communication devices such as cell phones or tablet computers. This might include an application, or text messaging services like appointment reminders or public health warning systems. Telehealth is a modern form of health care delivery. Telehealth breaks away from traditional health care delivery by using modern telecommunication systems including wireless communication methods. Traditional health is legislated through policy to ensure the safety of medical practitioners and patients. Consequently, since telehealth is
Mobile clinics seen as way to cut U.S. health bill. [SEP] MHealth // information systems. The second factor is the recent rapid rise in mobile phone penetration in developing countries to large segments of the healthcare workforce, as well as the population of a country as a whole. With greater access to mobile phones to all segments of a country, including rural areas, the potential of lowering information and transaction costs in order to deliver healthcare improves. The combination of these two factors has motivated much discussion of how greater access to mobile phone technology can be leveraged to mitigate the numerous pressures faced by developing countries' healthcare systems. Both factors are discussed
Mobile clinics seen as way to cut U.S. health bill. [SEP] Guatemala Health Initiative // mobile technology project to Hospitalito Atitlán. The Penn mobile technology project, a most promising telemedicine program, uses smart phones and other mobile technologies to improve physicians' access to clinical information in Guatemala. The smart phone technology allows images and information to be relayed to Penn doctors for instantaneous diagnosis and second opinions. They can also use electronic devices to tap into extensive electronic medical databases and e-journals to get information on diseases and treatment options. This immediate access to medical information will advance the quality of care in this rural area. GHI raises funds, procures medical supplies, and provides personnel
Mobile clinics seen as way to cut U.S. health bill. [SEP] Mobile Clinic (sports) // in a terrible accident at the fast curve at Fahrerlager. The clinic intervened, but were attacked by police dogs. The doctors persevered and their actions saved Uncini's life. Stadelmann died on the spot and Braun ended his career because of a serious eye injury. The mobile clinic became an institution on the motorcycle racing circuit, helping thousands of riders. Mobile Clinic (sports) The Mobile Clinic is a medical emergency facility, created by Dr. Claudio Costa to rescue riders injured during motorcycle races. In 1976, on Costa's initiative and with funding from Gino Amisano, founder and owner of the AGV, the
Mobile clinics seen as way to cut U.S. health bill. [SEP] MHealth // in many instances there is simply not enough human capacity even to absorb, deploy and efficiently use the substantial additional funds that are considered necessary to improve health in these countries. Mobile technology has made a recent and rapid appearance into low- and middle-income nations. While, in the mHealth field, mobile technology usually refers to mobile phone technology, the entrance of other technologies into these nations to facilitate healthcare are also discussed here. The link between health and development can be found in three of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), as set forth by the United Nations Millennium Declaration in
Mobile clinics seen as way to cut U.S. health bill. [SEP] Free clinic // their help, they usually limit who they are willing to see to just those from their own community and the surrounding areas, and especially in chronic care will only see patients from within a limited set of medical conditions. Free clinics function as health care safety nets for patients who cannot afford or access other forms of healthcare. They provide essential services regardless of the patient's ability to pay. Hospital emergency rooms are required by federal law to treat everyone regardless of their ability to pay, so people who lack the means to pay for care often seek treatment in
Mobile clinics seen as way to cut U.S. health bill. [SEP] Medic Mobile // a paper-thin wafer that sits underneath any ordinary SIM, health workers can submit information using a menu with drop-down lists, instant data validation, and skip logic. Skoll Award Winner for Social Entrepreneurship African Palliative Care Association, Kenya. Amref Health Africa, Malawi and Ethiopia. Bushenyi Medical Center, Uganda. ChildFund, Liberia. Children of Blessing Trust, Malawi. Christian Aid, Kenya. HealthRight International, Kenya. IntraHealth, Senegal. Ipas, Nigeria. Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health Center for Communication Programs, Malawi. Lighthouse (Kamuzu Central Hospital), Kenya. KEMRI-Wellcome, Kenya. Kabwohe Clinical Research Center, Uganda. Kilifi Kids, Kenya. Knowledge for Health (K4Health), Malawi. Last Mile Health, Liberia.
Chance the Rapper giving $1M to boost mental health services. [SEP] Chance the Rapper // started a Twitter campaign for May 23, 2016 using #May23 to stop gun violence for 42 hours. On March 6, 2017, after a meeting with Governor Bruce Rauner that did not go well only days before, Bennett announced his intention to donate $1,000,000 to Chicago Public Schools in order to help offset the lack of government funding provided. Following this, a movement arose to try and inspire Bennett to run for mayor of Chicago. This was backed by fellow media personalities including musician Drake. Bennett is an outspoken critic of President Donald Trump, having criticised him numerous times and drawn
Chance the Rapper giving $1M to boost mental health services. [SEP] Chance the Rapper // Ricketts in November 2017, and Bennett planned to relaunch the website later in 2018. In October 2018, Bennett endorsed Amara Enyia in the 2019 Chicago mayoral election. Mixtapes Collaborative albums BET Awards BET Hip Hop Awards Grammy Awards iHeartRadio Music Awards MOBO Awards MTV Video Music Awards MTV Video Music Awards Japan NAACP Image Awards Soul Train Music Awards Teen Choice Awards Chance the Rapper Chancelor Jonathan Bennett (born April 16, 1993), known professionally as Chance the Rapper, is an American rapper, singer, songwriter, record producer, actor, and philanthropist from the West Chatham neighborhood of Chicago, Illinois. In 2013, he
Chance the Rapper giving $1M to boost mental health services. [SEP] G-Eazy // of $10,000 and a $900 compensation fee to the security guard he assaulted. G-Eazy faced bullying and discrimination from classmates, as he grew up with a single mother in Oakland. Due to this, he later became involved in activism and philanthropy. In just the last year, he headlined concert for Bay Area fire relief that raised $15M, pulled out of H&M sponsorship deal after blowback about a racist sweatshirt advertisement, performed at an Everytown fundraiser on the eve of March For Our Lives, and used his platform to speak out about anti-gun violence. In 2018, G-Eazy launched the Endless Summer
Chance the Rapper giving $1M to boost mental health services. [SEP] Darrell Steinberg // extended mental health treatment. The Mental Health Services Act has proven to be a cost effective way to address mental health care. A 2012 report found that every dollar spent of mental health services in California saved roughly $0.88 in costs to criminal justice and health, and housing services by reducing the number of arrests, incarcerations, ER visits, and hospitalizations. Steinberg is married to his wife Julie and has two children: daughter Jordana and son Ari. They live in the Pocket-Greenhaven neighborhood of Sacramento. Darrell Steinberg Darrell Steven Steinberg (born October 15, 1959) is an American politician and attorney who
Chance the Rapper giving $1M to boost mental health services. [SEP] Chance the Rapper // West. In December 2015, Bennett joined with nonprofit "Warmest Winter 2016" in giving coats and other clothing to homeless citizens of Chicago. Bennett was able to raise $117,571. Bennett also started a new nonprofit called "Socialworks" in September 2016, which aims to give Chicago elementary school students "the opportunity to learn through music and showcase that knowledge at the end of the summer." A few months earlier in June 2016, Bennett had hosted the first ever Teens in the Park, a free festival that drew an attendance of 3,300. Bennett has actively fought to combat gun violence in his hometown
Chance the Rapper giving $1M to boost mental health services. [SEP] Tim Kaine // Tom Ridge. The commission first met in May 2007, and issued its findings and recommendations in August 2007. Among other recommendations, the panel proposed many mental health reforms. Based on the panel's recommendations, Kaine proposed $42 million of investment in mental health programs and reforms, included "boosting access to outpatient and emergency mental health services, increasing the number of case managers and improving monitoring of community-based providers." In April 2007, Kaine signed an executive order instructing state agencies to step up efforts to block gun sales to people involuntarily committed to inpatient and outpatient mental health treatment centers. Kaine, who
Chance the Rapper giving $1M to boost mental health services. [SEP] Chance the Rapper // of Chicago and in 2014, along with his father, promoted the "#SaveChicago" campaign. The campaign sought to stop gun violence over Memorial Day Weekend, and saw Chicago go 42 straight hours without a shooting. Bennett met with President Obama at the White House on April 16, 2016, to discuss My Brother's Keeper Challenge, an initiative of the United States Federal Government to promote intervention by civic leaders in the lives of young men of color to address their unique challenges and to promote racial justice, with other musicians, including Alicia Keys, Busta Rhymes, Janelle Monáe, J. Cole, and others. Bennett
Chance the Rapper giving $1M to boost mental health services. [SEP] Chance the Rapper // Chance the Rapper Chancelor Jonathan Bennett (born April 16, 1993), known professionally as Chance the Rapper, is an American rapper, singer, songwriter, record producer, actor, and philanthropist from the West Chatham neighborhood of Chicago, Illinois. In 2013, he began to gain recognition following the release of his second mixtape, "Acid Rap". Apart from his solo career, he is a member of the Chicago collective SaveMoney (along with frequent collaborator Vic Mensa). He has worked as the lead vocalist for the band The Social Experiment; they released the album "Surf" in May 2015. In May 2016, Bennett released his third mixtape
Chance the Rapper giving $1M to boost mental health services. [SEP] Centre for Addiction and Mental Health // and treating early signs of mental illness in youth. In 2014, philanthropist and business executive Andrew Fass donated $1,000,000 to CAMH for the hospital to create a wellness program for its staff. In 2016, Fass withdrew his donation, saying that CAMH was unable to show how they were spending the money. The grant was to be used for CAMH's "Well@Work" program, an initiative to provide Canadian workplaces with training to identify risks of mental illness and strategies to support employees in need. CAMH opened the Emergency Department in 2014, funded by a $2.5 million private donation and a $4.2 million
Chance the Rapper giving $1M to boost mental health services. [SEP] Glenn Close // Mental-Health Act that was written to expand treatment for the mentally ill and to provide access to mental-health services. The bill was signed into law by President Obama in April 2014, and will provide $1.1 billion in funding to help strengthen the mental-health-care system in the US. She was awarded the WebMD Health Hero award in 2015 for her contributions to mental-health initiatives. On June 16, 2016, Close donated $75,000 to the Mental-Health Association of Central Florida in order to fund counselling and other assistance to victims of the Orlando nightclub shooting. She frequently promotes her charitable causes through her
New nonprofit tackles COVID-19 in Native, rural communities. [SEP] Oaxaca Community Foundation // well as in traditional arts and crafts, among others. The Oaxaca Fund Initiative is a two-year collaboration between the Oaxaca Community Foundation and International Community Foundation to support key programs in community development, education, nutrition and health. Every dollar raised is matched 1:1 by the Ford Foundation up to a maximum of US$300,000. In collaboration with Microsoft Mexico, municipal governments, and the rural youth education system BIC (Bachillerato Inter Cultural), OCF has established 6 Community Learning Centers and satellite internet connections in rural areas of Oaxaca since 2005. Each center has 300 users and trains over 150 people per year.
New nonprofit tackles COVID-19 in Native, rural communities. [SEP] Association for Research on Nonprofit Organizations and Voluntary Action // focused on the need to upgrade the association’s services, enhance its reputation, and reach out to include a diverse, interdisciplinary group of researchers and practitioners interested in voluntary action and nonprofit study. Following the retreat, Kirsten Gronbjerg (co-president 1993-1994) prepared a document stating ARNOVA’s goals to present to possible funders. A second retreat was held at lifetime member David Mason’s ranch on March 19–21, 1993. Decisions made at the Mason Ranch Retreat resulted in the formalization of ARNOVA’s relationships with Independent Sector and the academic centers, and the affiliation of NVSQ with the Program on Non-Profit Organizations (PONPO) at Yale
New nonprofit tackles COVID-19 in Native, rural communities. [SEP] Rural Action // is also a founding member of the organization. There are 18 organizations that fund Rural Action, since they are member based. They include: Athens Foundation, Central Appalachian Network, Earthshare of Ohio, Epstein/Teicher Foundation, Ford Foundation, Grant Foundation, Muskingum Watershed Conservancy District, North Central Sustainable Agriculture Research & Education, Ohio Department of Natural Resources, Ohio State University, One Foundation, Serve Ohio AmeriCorps, Sisters of Saint Joseph Foundation, Sugarbush Foundation, University of Kentucky, US Department of Agriculture, US Department of Interior Office of Surface Mining, and the US Forest Endowment. There are also three membership levels to subscribe to in order to
New nonprofit tackles COVID-19 in Native, rural communities. [SEP] RIGA Project // the Rural Income Generating Activities Project June 2009 K. Covarrubias, A.P. de la O Campos, and A. Zezza A Profile of the Rural Poor April 2009 A. Valdés, W. Foster, G. Anríquez, C. Azzarri, K. Covarrubias, B. Davis, S. DiGiuseppe, T. Essam, T. Hertz, A.P. de la O, E. Quiñones, K. Stamoulis, P. Winters and A. Zezza Assets, Activities and Rural Poverty Alleviation: Evidence from a Multicountry Analysis January 2009 P. Winters, B. Davis, G. Carletto, K.Covarrubias, K.Stamoulis, E. Quiñones, and A. Zezza A Cross Country Comparison of Rural Income Generating Activities January 2009 B. Davis, P. Winters, G. Carletto,
New nonprofit tackles COVID-19 in Native, rural communities. [SEP] Givology // Furthermore, the use of entrepreneur or student profiles can be misleading, as money often flows to a host organization that works with these individuals instead of directly to the individual listed on such websites. Givology partners with grassroots education organizations in China, Uganda, Mexico, Sri Lanka, Colombia, Argentina, Afghanistan, Haiti, Liberia, Mali, Pakistan, Peru, Brazil, Paraguay, Ghana, Senegal, Guatemala, Tanzania, Benin, Vietnam, Rwanda, India, Kenya and Ecuador. Partners are generally local charities that lack the marketing resources of larger organizations and are not familiar with using the Internet for fundraising and awareness-building. Once a partnership is approved, Givology posts projects
New nonprofit tackles COVID-19 in Native, rural communities. [SEP] True Colors Fund // the True Colors Fund developed the Youth Count Toolkit to offer communities effective strategies for counting homeless youth. A collaboration between the True Colors Fund, the Office of the Assistant Secretary of Civil Rights at the United States Department of Agriculture, and the National Center for Lesbian Rights, the LGBT Rural Summit Series offers a unique opportunity to share information relating to policies, programs, and services that exist to protect, promote, and strengthen LGBT rural communities. Summits have been held in Greensboro, NC; Lost River, WV; Wayne, NE; Baton Rouge, LA; Dallas, TX; Atlanta, GA; Nashville, TN; Seattle, WA; and
New nonprofit tackles COVID-19 in Native, rural communities. [SEP] Washington Redskins Original Americans Foundation // July 10, and decline any further donations from the Original Americans Foundation. After accepting a $200,000 donation for the prior year, the Indian National Finals Rodeo (INFR), which says it is the U.S.' and Canada's largest rodeo organization for Native Americans, sent a letter refusing any further donations. INFR Vice President Michael Bo Vocu stated "After much soul searching, we have decided that we cannot in good conscience accept resources from you on the terms you have offered, no matter how desperately we need it ... because, as you know, the resources you are offering are not truly philanthropic --
New nonprofit tackles COVID-19 in Native, rural communities. [SEP] Coastal Community Foundation // a community-wide, online challenge that trained nonprofits on the use of online giving tools and social media. It generated $4 million for local charities on its inaugural day. and nearly double that amount in its second year. Anita Zucker and other philanthropic leaders pledged to augment giving on Lowcountry Giving Day in proportion to the gifts made to each nonprofit participant. The foundation also works with donors to create meaningful philanthropic experiences. Starting in 2010, Social Venture Partners Charleston is one such donor education forum. It is affiliated with Social Venture Partners International and has granted out more than $155,000
New nonprofit tackles COVID-19 in Native, rural communities. [SEP] Fundación Pro Vivienda Social // disseminated. To this end, the "Training and Education" project will create a Community Leaders Training Center. The center will bring together different community resources in a collaborative environment. The center will thus serve as place where problems facing the community can be discussed and analyzed. FPVS hopes that the center will integrate existing community resources and put them to use in improving living conditions and catalyzing necessary social developments. It is an unfortunate reality in Buenos Aires that many poor people are unable to fully realize their property rights because of irregularities in the chain of their home's title. This
New nonprofit tackles COVID-19 in Native, rural communities. [SEP] David Walls (academic) // in the Community Action Program, assisting Jule Sugarman with the launch of Project Head Start and funding student volunteer programs. In fall 1966 Walls joined the staff of the Appalachian Volunteers (AV), a nonprofit agency conducting community organizing projects in the central Appalachian coalfields of eastern Kentucky, southern West Virginia, and southwestern Virginia. He moved to Harlan County, Kentucky to supervise VISTA volunteers. A year later he became field coordinator for the AV in the state, and moved to Berea, Kentucky. When founding executive director Milton Ogle resigned in August 1968, Walls became the director for the organization's final year.
VW ramps up China electric car factories, taking aim at Tesla. [SEP] Automotive industry in China // to an estimate by the Japanese Mizuho Bank. The country has a significant benefit over others. Some two-thirds of the world's lithium-ion batteries are made in China and the country's EV manufacturing facilities are close to the source these components. In October 2018, Tesla purchased land for the construction of an EV manufacturing plant in Shanghai's Lingang area. By then, VW had already begun construction of its EV factory, with a planned annual capacity of 300,000 SAIC-VW MEB-platform vehicles, starting with three battery-electric vehicles and two plug-in hybrids. Toyota Motor had already launched sales of an EV branded under Guangzhou
VW ramps up China electric car factories, taking aim at Tesla. [SEP] History of Tesla, Inc. // 276 mpg. Tesla makes its cars at the Tesla Factory in California. In October 2015, Tesla Motor announced the company was negotiating with the Chinese government on producing cars domestically. Local production has the potential to reduce the sales prices of Tesla models by a third. However, foreign automakers are generally required to establish a joint venture with a Chinese company to produce cars domestically. Elon Musk clarified that production will remain in the U.S. in the foreseeable future, but if there's sufficient local demand for the Tesla Model 3 in China, a factory could be built in the country
VW ramps up China electric car factories, taking aim at Tesla. [SEP] New energy vehicles in China // have no less than 10% of parking spaces with charging facilities. According to the guideline, there should be at least one public charging station for every 2,000 NEVs. Also the State Council ordered local governments not to restrict the sales or use of new energy cars. In October 2015, Tesla Motor announced the company is negotiating with the Chinese government on producing its electric cars domestically. Local production has the potential to reduce the sales prices of Tesla models by a third, and so improving the weak sales of the Model S. A Model S starts at about in the
VW ramps up China electric car factories, taking aim at Tesla. [SEP] Volkswagen Group China // venture since China began its reform, and debut to the outside world, and is located in Anting International Auto City on the northwest outskirts of Shanghai. Producing cars under the Volkswagen and the Škoda brands, SVW currently offers a total of twelve model series. By October 2009, SVW had turned out over five million cars in total, becoming the carmaker that has the biggest population of cars in China. In April 2005, Škoda officially landed at Shanghai Volkswagen, ushering Shanghai Volkswagen into the dual brand era. In September 2006, Shanghai Volkswagen Škoda – the first Chinese manufactured Škoda - was
VW ramps up China electric car factories, taking aim at Tesla. [SEP] Volkswagen Group China // Group, via its Volkswagen Group China division, has 16 subsidiaries in China, with Shanghai Automotive Industry Corporation (SAIC), and First Automobile Works (FAW) being the two major Chinese partner companies. In 1984, a joint venture (JV) was established between Volkswagen Group and Shanghai Automotive Industry Corporation (now SAIC Motor), creating Shanghai Volkswagen Automotive Co., Ltd. (SVW). With its headquarters in Shanghai, equity holdings are split (as of 2010) - Volkswagen AG (40%), Volkswagen (China) Invest (10%), SAIC (50%). This a fixed term venture, of 45 years, running until 2030. Shanghai Volkswagen Automotive Co., Ltd. (SVW) is the first car-making joint
VW ramps up China electric car factories, taking aim at Tesla. [SEP] FAW-Volkswagen // car plant #2. By 2010 FAW-VW had sold over 1,000,000 Audis (including imported cars) in China. With the celebration, a sculpture named 'Ode to Audi' from Gerry Judah was set at the entrance of the company. According to Chinese government policy, foreign auto manufactures should develop domestic brands with their local partners. Thus FAW-VW revealed its own brand 'Kaili (开利)' in May 2011. On August 15, 2011, FAW-VW celebrated its twentieth anniversary with its one millionth car in 2011 (a Magotan B7L). November 2016: Changchun FAW-VW agency workers organize and file a report on unfair labor conditions to the All-China
VW ramps up China electric car factories, taking aim at Tesla. [SEP] Gigafactory 3 // Gigafactory 3 Tesla Gigafactory 3 () is a Tesla, Inc. factory currently under construction in Shanghai, China. The facility will produce battery cells along with Tesla Model 3 and Tesla Model Y cars, at an initial production rate target of 250,000 electric cars per year. The Shanghai regional government approved the agreement to build the production facility in July 2018, and a long-term lease was signed for of land in October 2018. Construction began in December 2018 with the installation of secure fencing and site offices. The factory site is within Pudong District, with the western edge bordering Fengxian District.
VW ramps up China electric car factories, taking aim at Tesla. [SEP] Gigafactory 3 // 2018, construction activity at the site was underway with site grading. Shanghai Mayor Ying Yong visited the site on 5 December. A subsidiary of China Minmetals was making preparation for piling foundations. Shanghai Construction Group was one of the companies bidding for part of the larger construction contract. Gigafactory 3 Tesla Gigafactory 3 () is a Tesla, Inc. factory currently under construction in Shanghai, China. The facility will produce battery cells along with Tesla Model 3 and Tesla Model Y cars, at an initial production rate target of 250,000 electric cars per year. The Shanghai regional government approved the agreement
VW ramps up China electric car factories, taking aim at Tesla. [SEP] Volkswagen Group MEB platform // from combustion engine to battery electric vehicles with all 300 models across 12 brands having an electric version by 2030. As of May 2018, the VW Group has committed $48 billion in car battery supplies and plans to outfit 16 factories to build electric cars by the end of 2022. The upcoming Volkswagen-branded production cars will be assembled in VW's Zwickau plant in Germany for the European market from 2020, while two production centers in North America and China are planned to be "launched at almost the same time". The Škoda-branded SUV Vision E is to be produced in the
VW ramps up China electric car factories, taking aim at Tesla. [SEP] Future Mobility Corporation // a range of international companies, including senior staff from the BMW i programme and Tesla. It is a subsidiary of China Harmony New Energy Auto Holding Limited. In January 2017, the company announced its first manufacturing facility would be located in Nanjing, China at a cost of US$1.7 billion and an initial production capacity of 150,000 cars. In 2018, Chinese state owned First Auto Works invested a “significant amount of money” into the EV startup Byton. The company announced its ambition to launch three electric car models by 2022. The first announced is the mid-sized Byton crossover, but only in
Britain gives scientist go-ahead to genetically modify human embryos. [SEP] Kathy Niakan // Institute she is investigating the mechanisms of lineage specification in human embryos and stem cells. In February 2016 Niakan was given the go-ahead by the UK Human Fertilisation and Embryology Authority to genetically modify human embryos. The embryos were to be destroyed after seven days. She planned to use the CRISPR technique to answer questions like what genetic faults cause some women to miscarry, what causes infertility and what is crucial for a healthy embryo. In 2017 her lab published the first major study using CRISPR-Cas9 in human embryos in Nature, demonstrating that the transcription factor Oct4 is essential for
Britain gives scientist go-ahead to genetically modify human embryos. [SEP] Assisted reproductive technology // Council on Bioethics issued a report which concluded that under certain circumstances, editing of the DNA of human embryos could be acceptable. The Nuffield Council is a British independent organisation that evaluates ethical questions in medicine and biology. Lee Silver has projected a dystopia in which a race of superior humans look down on those without genetic enhancements, though others have counseled against accepting this vision of the future. It has also been suggested that if designer babies were created through genetic engineering, that this could have deleterious effects on the human gene pool. Some futurists claim that it would
Britain gives scientist go-ahead to genetically modify human embryos. [SEP] Christopher Jones (biologist) // Christopher Jones (biologist) Christopher Jones (born 1976) is an American innovator with a strong interest in health economics, particularly as it applies to improving outcomes and reducing healthcare costs. In early 2003, he presented a report, first to then-British Chancellor Gordon Brown and then in the House of Commons, that led to policy changes to the maximum allowable number of transferred embryos during the course of a woman's in vitro fertilisation treatment. "The Times" in London reported that Jones' report induced immediate action by the Human Fertilisation and Embryology Authority but divided fertility doctors: half viewed this as a good
Britain gives scientist go-ahead to genetically modify human embryos. [SEP] Miodrag Stojković // he was granted the first licence to use nuclear transfer embryos to derive human embryonic stem cells in Europe, and in the following month, he became the Deputy Director of the Centre for Stem Cell Biology and Developmental Genetics at the University of Newcastle. In 2005, he served as a Visiting Professor to the University of Kragujevac in Serbia and Montenegro. Later in the year, he became Chair in Embryology and Stem Cell Biology at the University of Newcastle, and in 2006, Deputy Director and Head of the Cellular Reprogramming Laboratory at the Centro de Investigación Príncipe Felipe in Valencia,
Britain gives scientist go-ahead to genetically modify human embryos. [SEP] Mary Warnock, Baroness Warnock // this occasion gave rise to the Human Fertilisation and Embryology Act 1990, which governs human fertility treatment and experimentation using human embryos. Its effect has been to require licensing for procedures such as in vitro fertilisation and to ban research using human embryos more than 14 days old. According to Dame Susan Leather, a former chair of the Human Fertilisation and Embryology Authority, "perhaps the greatest achievement of the Warnock committee is that it managed to get an ethical consensus that people understood as well as shared". From 1984 to 1989, Warnock chaired a Home Office Committee on animal experimentation
Britain gives scientist go-ahead to genetically modify human embryos. [SEP] Human Fertilisation and Embryology Authority // Human Fertilisation and Embryology Authority The Human Fertilisation and Embryology Authority (HFEA) is an executive non-departmental public body of the Department of Health in the United Kingdom. It is a statutory body that regulates and inspects all clinics in the United Kingdom providing "in vitro" fertilisation (IVF), artificial insemination and the storage of human eggs, sperm or embryos. It also regulates human embryo research. After the birth of Louise Brown, the world's first IVF baby, in 1978, there was concern about the implications of this new technology. In 1982, the UK government formed a committee chaired by philosopher Mary Warnock
Britain gives scientist go-ahead to genetically modify human embryos. [SEP] Gene drive // and represent the possibility of a larger change in a living species than has been possible before. In December 2015, scientists of major world academies called for a moratorium on inheritable human genome edits that would affect the germline, including those related to CRISPR-Cas9 technologies, but supported continued basic research and gene editing that would not affect future generations. In February 2016, British scientists were given permission by regulators to genetically modify human embryos by using CRISPR-Cas9 and related techniques on condition that the embryos were destroyed in seven days. In June 2016, the US National Academies of Sciences, Engineering,
Britain gives scientist go-ahead to genetically modify human embryos. [SEP] Human Fertilisation and Embryology Act 1990 // detailed review to determine the best way to reduce the risk of multiple pregnancies with in vitro fertilization (IVF). For example, Nadya Suleman (or "Octomom") is publicly known for giving birth to octuplets after IVF treatment. This policy allows for the use of techniques which alter the mitochondrial DNA of the egg or an embryo used in IVF, to prevent serious mitochondrial diseases from being inherited. The policies reviewed by HFEA cover everything from human reproductive cloning to the creation of human-animal hybrids, and include subjects such as ethics with scientific and social significance. Sperm, eggs and embryos received in
Britain gives scientist go-ahead to genetically modify human embryos. [SEP] Human Fertilisation and Embryology Authority // the development of embryos", "increasing knowledge about serious disease", and "enabling any such knowledge to be applied in developing treatments for serious disease". This allows researchers to carry out embryonic stem cell research and therapeutic cloning providing that an HFEA Licence Committee considers the use of embryos necessary or desirable for one of these purposes of research. The Human Reproductive Cloning Act 2001 was introduced to explicitly prohibit reproductive cloning in the UK. In 2004, the Human Fertilisation and Embryology Authority (Disclosure of Donor Information) Regulations 2004/1511, enabled donor-conceived children to access the identity of their sperm, egg or embryo
Britain gives scientist go-ahead to genetically modify human embryos. [SEP] Human Fertilisation and Embryology Act 1990 // is the current law in the UK. Human Fertilisation and Embryology Act 1990 The Human Fertilisation and Embryology Act 1990 is an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It created the Human Fertilisation and Embryology Authority which is in charge of human embryo research, along with monitoring and licensing fertility clinics in the United Kingdom. The Authority is composed of a chairman, a deputy chairman, and however many members are appointed by the UK Secretary of State. They are in charge of reviewing information about human embryos and subsequent development, provision of treatment services, and activities governed by
U.S. Representatives Rashid Tlaib and Ilhan Omar co-sponsored legislation to recognize Muslim holidays as federal holidays. [SEP] Rashida Tlaib // two Muslim women in Congress along with Ilhan Omar, and the first Palestinian-American woman in Congress. Tlaib, a member of the Democratic Socialists of America, aligns politically with the left wing of the Democratic Party. She supports domestic reforms including Medicare For All and a $15 minimum wage. Tlaib was a strong, early supporter of the movement to abolish the Immigration Customs Enforcement agency. Tlaib has voiced support for a two-state solution as well as "aid to Israel and the Palestinian Authority, particularly to fund initiatives that foster peace", as stated on her J Street page. But in an August
U.S. Representatives Rashid Tlaib and Ilhan Omar co-sponsored legislation to recognize Muslim holidays as federal holidays. [SEP] Rashida Tlaib // to any U.S. state legislature. In 2018, Tlaib won the Democratic nomination for the U.S. House of Representatives seat from Michigan's 13th congressional district. She ran unopposed in the general election and became one of the first two Muslim women elected to Congress, alongside Ilhan Omar (D-MN), and the first Palestinian-American woman in Congress. She is a member of the Democratic Socialists of America. The eldest of fourteen children, Rashida Harbi was born on July 24, 1976, to working-class Palestinian immigrants in Detroit. Her mother was born in Beit Ur El Foka, near the West Bank city of Ramallah. Her
U.S. Representatives Rashid Tlaib and Ilhan Omar co-sponsored legislation to recognize Muslim holidays as federal holidays. [SEP] Shujaat Khan (engineer) // boroughs. Shujaat Khan also wrote New York State Senator Jose Peralta an open letter pertaining to the recognition of Muslim school holidays throughout not just New York City, but also New York State. These events focused on the students affected by the decision to choose between school and religion and focused on what an egalitarian society should look like—one that recognizes all religious groups' rights. In 2015, after 16 years of working with various institutions, political figures, religious leaders, and coalitions, Shujaat Khan, NYCPP, La Fuente, 32BJ SEIU were successful in recognizing the school holidays in the New York City
U.S. Representatives Rashid Tlaib and Ilhan Omar co-sponsored legislation to recognize Muslim holidays as federal holidays. [SEP] Gary Ackerman // of Christmas. The resolution, which did not include language that would protect the symbols of other religious holidays, passed 401–22 in the House in December 2005. In April 2003 the Catholic League for religious and civil rights attacked Ackerman for voting against a non-binding resolution that would have declared a day of prayer in recognition of the U.S. war in Iraq. Ackerman received an "A" on the Drum Major Institute's 2005 Congressional Scorecard on middle-class issues. Ackerman was also a member of the Cuba Democracy Caucus and is currently the head of the International Council of Jewish Parliamentarians (ICJP). Ackerman
U.S. Representatives Rashid Tlaib and Ilhan Omar co-sponsored legislation to recognize Muslim holidays as federal holidays. [SEP] Muslim School Holiday Campaign // Muslim School Holiday Campaign In 1999, the campaign for Muslim School Holidays began when Shujaat Khan's children had to choose between celebrating the Eid holidays or going to school. In 2006, the first Muslim School Holiday Campaign to successfully pass the Muslim School Holiday Resolution was launched by the New York Civic Participation Project followed by its allied coalitions. The resolution, numbered 1281 passed unanimously by elected officials in 2008. Mayor Michael Bloomberg vetoed Resolution 1281. Five years after the veto, Mayor Bill de Blasio, who was then New York City Public Advocate, promised to recognize the two Muslim Holidays,
U.S. Representatives Rashid Tlaib and Ilhan Omar co-sponsored legislation to recognize Muslim holidays as federal holidays. [SEP] Shujaat Khan (engineer) // was launched by the New York Civic Participation Project followed by its allied coalitions. The resolution, numbered 1281 passed unanimously by elected officials in 2008. Mayor Michael Bloomberg vetoed Resolution 1281. Five years after the veto, Mayor Bill de Blasio, who was then New York City Public Advocate, promised to recognize the two Muslim Holidays, Eid ul-Fitr and Eid ul-Adha. In March 2014, Shujaat Khan organized a Muslim holiday community forum at P.S. 69 in Queens, NY. At the event, New York City Council member Daniel Dromm was in attendance. The forum's purpose was to gain recognition, inclusion, and respect
U.S. Representatives Rashid Tlaib and Ilhan Omar co-sponsored legislation to recognize Muslim holidays as federal holidays. [SEP] Rashida Tlaib // in state legislatures across the United States. She is the second Muslim to serve in the Michigan State House of Representatives, after James Karoub. Tlaib is the second Muslim woman to serve in a state legislature nationwide, after Jamilah Nasheed of Missouri. She and Justin Amash, a Republican who was also elected in 2008, were the first two Palestinian-American members of the Michigan legislature. After leaving the state legislature, Tlaib worked at Sugar Law Center, a Detroit nonprofit that provides free legal representation for workers. 2018 Special Election In 2018, Tlaib announced her intention to run for John Conyers's seat
U.S. Representatives Rashid Tlaib and Ilhan Omar co-sponsored legislation to recognize Muslim holidays as federal holidays. [SEP] Ilhan Omar // On June 17, she was endorsed by the Minnesota Democratic–Farmer–Labor Party after two rounds of voting. Omar won the August 14 primary with 48.2% of the vote. She faced health care worker and conservative activist Jennifer Zielinski in the November 6 general election. She won with 78.0% of the vote, becoming the first Somali American elected to the U.S. Congress, the first Muslim former refugee to be elected to the House, the first woman of color to serve as a U.S. Representative from Minnesota, and (alongside former Michigan state representative Rashida Tlaib) one of the first Muslim women elected to
U.S. Representatives Rashid Tlaib and Ilhan Omar co-sponsored legislation to recognize Muslim holidays as federal holidays. [SEP] Rashida Tlaib // Rashida Tlaib Rashida Harbi Tlaib (born July 24, 1976) is an American politician and attorney who is the U.S. Representative-elect for Michigan's 13th Congressional district. She is a Democratic former member of the Michigan House of Representatives. Until term-limited out, she represented the 6th District, which is in Southwest Detroit and stretches from an area just south of Downtown to the city's southern border, and west to the city of Dearborn. Upon taking office on January 1, 2009, Tlaib became the first Muslim woman to serve in the Michigan Legislature, and the first Muslim woman in history to be elected
U.S. Representatives Rashid Tlaib and Ilhan Omar co-sponsored legislation to recognize Muslim holidays as federal holidays. [SEP] Ken Calvert // passed the House of Representatives. Calvert introduced H. Res. 377, a bill recognizing Armed Forces Day and the exemplary service of the members of the United States Armed Forces on April 29, 2009. This bill received 70 bipartisan cosponsorships and passed the House of Representatives unanimously on May 14, 2009. Calvert introduced H. Res. 1219 to support the designation of a National Child Awareness Month to promote awareness of children's charities and youth-serving organizations across the United States on March 25, 2010. Calvert assembled 40 bipartisan cosponsors for this bill and on July 19, 2010, this bill passed the House
Donald Trump Jr. tweeted, "Do you know what's deplorable? Being impeached!" to the Clintons in September 2016. [SEP] Basket of deplorables // one year after the election, Trump thanked his "Deplorables" for his victory. Others in Trump's campaign responded negatively to the statement. Trump's running mate Mike Pence stated in a Capitol Hill meeting, "For Hillary Clinton to express such disdain for millions of Americans is one more reason that disqualifies her to serve in the highest office." Kellyanne Conway, Trump's campaign manager, had issued a statement on Twitter, claiming "One day after promising to be aspirational & uplifting, Hillary insults millions of Americans." Meanwhile, Roger Stone and Donald Trump Jr. posted a parody movie poster of "The Expendables" on Twitter and
Donald Trump Jr. tweeted, "Do you know what's deplorable? Being impeached!" to the Clintons in September 2016. [SEP] Basket of deplorables // In a rally at Des Moines, Iowa, Trump stated "While my opponent slanders you as deplorable and irredeemable, I call you hardworking American patriots who love your country". During the rest of the election, Trump invited "deplorable Americans" on stage. For example, at a rally in Miami, Florida on September 16, 2016 Trump parodied "Les Misérables" with the title "Les Déplorables" under the song "Do You Hear the People Sing?". Trump also used the label against Clinton in an advertisement, which claimed that Clinton herself is deplorable because she "viciously demoniz[es] hard working people like you". On November 8, 2017,
Donald Trump Jr. tweeted, "Do you know what's deplorable? Being impeached!" to the Clintons in September 2016. [SEP] Basket of deplorables // 9, Clinton gave a speech and said the following: The following day Clinton expressed regret for saying "half," while insisting that Trump had deplorably amplified "hateful views and voices." At the second presidential debate in October 2016, after Trump mentioned the speech in a response to James Carter, debate moderator Anderson Cooper asked Clinton "how can you unite a country if you've written off tens of millions of Americans?" Clinton responded to Cooper's question by saying, "my argument is not with his supporters, it's with him and the hateful, divisive campaign he has run." On October 20, 2016, during the
Donald Trump Jr. tweeted, "Do you know what's deplorable? Being impeached!" to the Clintons in September 2016. [SEP] Basket of deplorables // Basket of deplorables "Basket of deplorables" is a phrase from a 2016 presidential election campaign speech delivered by Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton on September 9, 2016, at a campaign fundraising event, which Clinton used to describe half of the supporters of her general election opponent, Republican nominee Donald Trump. Clinton later said that she "regrets saying half [of Trump's supporters]", and the Trump campaign repeatedly used the phrase against her during and after the 2016 presidential election. Many Trump supporters adopted the "Deplorable" moniker for themselves. After Clinton's loss, some journalists and political analysts questioned whether the speech played a
Donald Trump Jr. tweeted, "Do you know what's deplorable? Being impeached!" to the Clintons in September 2016. [SEP] 2016 United States presidential election // November 6, he notified Congress that the new emails did not change the FBI's earlier conclusion. Also, on September 9, 2016, Clinton stated: "You know, just to be grossly generalistic, you could put half of Trump's supporters into what I call the basket of deplorables. They're racist, sexist, homophobic, xenophobic, Islamophobic—you name it." Donald Trump criticized Clinton's remark as insulting his supporters. The following day Clinton expressed regret for saying "half", while insisting that Trump had deplorably amplified "hateful views and voices". Previously on August 25, 2016, Clinton gave a speech criticizing Trump's campaign for using "racist lies" and allowing
Donald Trump Jr. tweeted, "Do you know what's deplorable? Being impeached!" to the Clintons in September 2016. [SEP] Maxine Waters // giving a euology at Dick Gregory's funeral, she said that she was "cleaning out the White House" and that "when I get through with Donald Trump, he's going to wish he had been impeached." In October 2017, she said the U.S. Congress had enough evidence against Trump to 'be moving on impeachment', in reference to Russian collusion allegations during the 2016 Presidential election, and that Trump "has openly obstructed justice in front of our face." Waters texted an allegation on Twitter regarding the Trump White House, "Trump has made it clear—it is now the White Supremacists' House", linking President Trump
Donald Trump Jr. tweeted, "Do you know what's deplorable? Being impeached!" to the Clintons in September 2016. [SEP] Sally Kohn // supported Bernie Sanders in the Democratic primaries and then Hillary Clinton in the 2016 United States presidential election. On February 19, 2017, "New York Post" columnist Karol Markowicz wrote, in response to a recent tweet by Kohn, the following: "Last week, cable news personality Sally Kohn tweeted what she called a "straightforward" plan that would eject Donald Trump and install Hillary Clinton into the presidency: "1. Impeach Trump Pence; 2. Constitutional crisis; 3. Call special election; 4. Ryan v Clinton; 5. President Clinton." "Anyone with middle-school knowledge of the presidential chain of command should know that impeaching both Trump and
Donald Trump Jr. tweeted, "Do you know what's deplorable? Being impeached!" to the Clintons in September 2016. [SEP] Basket of deplorables // 71st Alfred E. Smith Memorial Foundation Dinner, Clinton joked about the phrase, telling the guests "I just want to put you all in a basket of adorables". Clinton's campaign pointed to a series of polls that showed that some of Trump's supporters held negative views toward Latinos, African Americans, and Muslims. Clinton's campaign used the incident to try to force Trump's campaign members to denounce its extreme supporters. For example, after Mike Pence refused to call David Duke "deplorable," Clinton's running mate Tim Kaine accused Pence of enabling racism and xenophobia. Donald Trump criticized Clinton's remark as insulting his supporters.
Donald Trump Jr. tweeted, "Do you know what's deplorable? Being impeached!" to the Clintons in September 2016. [SEP] Basket of deplorables // Clinton's speech, some political analysts compared the statement to Mitt Romney's 47% gaffe in 2012. After the election, Diane Hessan, who had been hired by the Clinton campaign to track undecided voters, wrote in "The Boston Globe" that "all hell broke loose" after the "basket of deplorables" comment, which prompted what she saw as the largest shift of undecided voters towards Trump. In an interview with CNN on December 4, 2016, Hillary Clinton's campaign manager Robby Mook said that the statement "definitely could have alienated" her voters. Meanwhile, Courtney Weaver of "Financial Times" believed that Clinton's comment had no effect
Donald Trump Jr. tweeted, "Do you know what's deplorable? Being impeached!" to the Clintons in September 2016. [SEP] Hillary Clinton 2016 presidential campaign // 25, 2016, Clinton gave a speech criticizing Trump's campaign for using "racist lies" and allowing the alt-right to gain prominence. At a fundraiser on September 9, Clinton stated: "You know, just to be grossly generalistic, you could put half of Trump's supporters into what I call the basket of deplorables. They're racist, sexist, homophobic, xenophobic, Islamophobic — you name it." Donald Trump criticized Clinton's remark as insulting his supporters, and some political analysts compared the statement to Mitt Romney's 47% gaffe in 2012. The following day Clinton expressed regret for saying "half", while insisting that Trump had deplorably amplified "hateful
New drugs show rare promise against advanced breast cancer. [SEP] MTOR inhibitors // non-small-cell lung cancer, and other advanced solid tumors. While common toxicities included nausea, stomatitis, and anemia; responses were noted. Everolimus is the second novel Rapamycin analog. From March 30, 2009 to May 5, 2011 the U.S. FDA approved everolimus for the treatment of advanced renal cell carcinoma after failure of treatment with sunitinib or sorafenib, subependymal giant cell astrocytoma (SEGA) associated with tuberous sclerosis (TS), and progressive neuroendocrine tumors of pancreatic origin (PNET). In July and August 2012, two new indications were approved, for advanced hormone receptor-positive, HER2-negative breast cancer in combination with exemestane, and pediatric and adult patients with
New drugs show rare promise against advanced breast cancer. [SEP] Masato Tanabe // A compound discovered in a previous contract from NIH showed potential - it acted like "anti-estrogen" in the breasts and uterus but like normal estrogen elsewhere in the body, and were thus more "tissue-selective". A contract was proposed to Taiho Pharmaceutical in July 1996, and within six years and slightly under $3 million (an unusually short amount of time) two new drugs were discovered and tested on people (particularly people for which tamoxifen has failed): SR16234 and SR16287. The first of those, SR16234, also inhibited the growth of blood vessels (angiogenesis) and accelerated the death of cancer cells (apoptosis) and
New drugs show rare promise against advanced breast cancer. [SEP] Treatment of lung cancer // EML4-ALK fusion oncogene, and is approved by the FDA. EML4-ALK is found in some relatively young, never or light smokers with adenocarcinoma. Advances in cytotoxic drugs, pharmacogenetics and targeted drug design show promise. A number of targeted agents are at the early stages of clinical research, such as cyclo-oxygenase-2 inhibitors, the apoptosis promoter exisulind, proteasome inhibitors, bexarotene, the epidermal growth factor receptor inhibitor cetuximab, and vaccines. Sorafenib (marketed as Nexavar for use in renal and liver cancer) showed promise in a clinical trial matching targeted treatment to the cancer's genetic profile. Future areas of research include ras proto-oncogene inhibition, phosphoinositide
New drugs show rare promise against advanced breast cancer. [SEP] Cancer vaccine // of a phase III clinical trial. The approval is for a subset of kidney cancer patients who are at intermediate risk for disease recurrence. It awaits approval in the US and EU. but will need a new trial for FDA approval. Interim results from a phase III trial of talimogene laherparepvec in melanoma showed a significant tumour response compared to administration of GM-CSF alone. Oncophage was approved in Russia in 2008 for kidney cancer. It is marketed by Antigenics Inc. Sipuleucel-T, Provenge, was approved by the FDA in April 2010 for metastatic hormone-refractory prostate cancer. It is marketed by Dendreon
New drugs show rare promise against advanced breast cancer. [SEP] Veliparib // trials, for advanced ovarian cancer, triple-negative breast cancer and in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). In 2017, AbbVie reported that veliparib failed to improve outcomes in the triple-negative breast cancer and NSCLC trials. Veliparib Veliparib (ABT-888) is a potential anti-cancer drug acting as a PARP inhibitor. It kills cancer cells by blocking a protein called PARP, thereby preventing the repair of DNA or genetic damage in cancer cells and possibly making them more susceptible to anticancer treatments. Veliparib may make whole brain radiation treatment work more effectively against brain metastases from NSCLC. It has been shown to potentiate the effects
New drugs show rare promise against advanced breast cancer. [SEP] Bionovo // effect is blunted due to their different metabolic profile. Cancer cells attempt but ultimately fail to repair DNA damage that results in the inhibition of glycolysis and cancer cell death while normal cells remain unharmed. Bezielle has completed Phase 1A and 1B clinical trials for advanced metastatic breast cancer. Seala (also known as VG101) for vaginal atrophy was approved by the FDA to begin a Phase I/II clinical trial upon receipt of funding. BN107 and BN108, both designed to treat advanced breast cancer, are slated to begin Phase I/II clinical trials upon funding. Bezielle was scheduled to begin a Phase
New drugs show rare promise against advanced breast cancer. [SEP] Bcr-Abl tyrosine-kinase inhibitor // analog or a novel way to inhibit TKs. Rebastinib (DCC-2036) Also an inhibitor of TIE-2 and VEGFR-2. It has had a phase 1 clinical trial for Leukemias (Ph+ CML With T315I Mutation). It is in a phase 1 clinical trial of combination therapy for metastatic breast cancer. Imatinib remains a standard frontline TKI. Nilotinib and dasatinib are also approved by the FDA as a frontline drugs, in June and October 2010 respectively. Four of these drugs, nilotinib, dasatinib, bosutinib and ponatinib are approved for the treatment of imatinib resistant or intolerant CML. The first line data for these compounds are
New drugs show rare promise against advanced breast cancer. [SEP] Specialty drugs in the United States // results". Shortly after the law was enacted, Ivacaftor, in January 2013, became the first drug to receive the breakthrough therapy designation. On February 3, 2015 New York-based Pfizer's drug Ibrance was approved through the FDA's Breakthrough Therapy designation program as a treatment for advanced breast cancer. It can only be ordered through specialty pharmacies and sells for "$9,850 for a month or $118,200 per year". According to a statement by the New York-based Pfizer the price "is not the cost that most patients or payors pay" since most prescriptions are dispensed through health plans, which negotiate discounts for medicines or
New drugs show rare promise against advanced breast cancer. [SEP] Institute of Cancer Research // ICR has been working to develop drugs that inhibit BRAF in melanoma and other cancers where the gene is defective. In the five years from 2004/05, the ICR developed on average two drug development candidates per year. Since 2006, it has licensed three novel series of anti-cancer drugs to major pharmaceutical companies: Hsp90 inhibitors to Novartis, PKB inhibitors to AstraZeneca and PI3Kinase inhibitors to Genentech. The PIl3Kinase inhibitor GDC-0941, licensed to Genentech by Piramed, is thought to have potential in a range of human cancers. In laboratory experiments, ICR scientists found that the drug reduced the growth of glioblastoma (the
New drugs show rare promise against advanced breast cancer. [SEP] Atezolizumab // and standard chemotherapy for some patients with lung cancer was granted priority review. In October 2018, a combined clinical trial of the drug with nab-paclitaxel on patients with advanced triple negative breast cancer concluded. In May 2016 FDA granted accelerated approval to atezolizumab for locally advanced or metastatic urothelial carcinoma treatment after failure of cisplatin-based chemotherapy. The confirmatory trial (to convert the accelerated approval into a full approval) failed to achieve its primary endpoint of overall survival. In October 2016, FDA approved atezolizumab for the treatment of patients with metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) whose disease progressed during or
House protects pizza as a vegetable. [SEP] National School Lunch Act // that pressure was placed upon officials voting on the bill by lobbyists representing pizza manufacturers and cheese producers, as it was seen to threaten the ability of schools to serve pizza and credit it with the same level of nutritional value as they heretofore had. Many critics have sardonically summarized the situation as "Pizza is now a vegetable" or "Congress decides pizza is a vegetable". However, others have pointed out that 1/8 cup of tomato paste stacks up remarkably well against a 1/2 cup of vegetables nutritionally, albeit with an excessive amount of sodium that could be argued to reduce
House protects pizza as a vegetable. [SEP] Ketchup as a vegetable // a bill that barred the USDA from changing its nutritional guidelines for school lunches. The proposed changes would have limited the amount of potatoes allowed in lunches, required more green vegetables, and declared a half-cup of tomato paste to count as a serving of vegetables, rather than the current standard of 2 tablespoons. The blocking of these proposed higher standards meant that the smaller amount of tomato paste in pizza could continue to be counted as a vegetable in school lunches. The move resulted in widespread mockery, with headlines saying Congress had declared pizza to be a vegetable. The blocking
House protects pizza as a vegetable. [SEP] Ketchup as a vegetable // could count as a vegetable. A similar controversy arose in 2011, when Congress passed a bill prohibiting the USDA from increasing the amount of tomato paste required to constitute a vegetable; the bill allowed pizza with two tablespoons of tomato paste to qualify as a vegetable. The Omnibus Reconciliation Act of 1980, signed into law by President Jimmy Carter, reduced the Federal School Lunch and Child Nutrition Programs budget by approximately eight percent. Building upon these reductions, the Omnibus Reconciliation Act of 1981 (passed as the Gramm-Latta Budget) made further spending cuts to the Federal School Lunch Program decreasing its
House protects pizza as a vegetable. [SEP] Pizza saver // of stuck cheese and bread. Some pizzerias have eliminated the use of plastic pizza savers by returning to the old method of simply baking a bread ball into the center of their pizzas. Pizza saver A pizza saver or package saver (sometimes referred to as pizza table, pizza Ottoman, or pizza nipple) is an object used to prevent the top of a food container, such as a pizza box or cake box, from collapsing in at the center and touching the food inside. A pizza saver is made of plastic and has three (sometimes four) legs. They are often white,
House protects pizza as a vegetable. [SEP] Pizza box // up any humidity downwards, meaning the layer beneath does not only impedes fat from trickling down but also steam. In the US, many pizza boxes include a spacer made of heat-resistant plastic (usually polypropylene) placed in the middle of the pizza called the pizza saver (also known as "package saver", "box tent", "pizza table", or "pizza lid support"). This stops the box lid from touching the pizza and prevents cheese and toppings from sticking to the lid when it is being delivered. The pizza saver's origin goes back to a 1985 patent by Carmela Vitale. The pizza saver is often
House protects pizza as a vegetable. [SEP] Pizza // between pizza and such perceived benefits is unclear. Pizza consumption in Italy might only indicate adherence to traditional Mediterranean dietary patterns, which have been shown to have various health benefits. Some attribute the apparent health benefits of pizza to the lycopene content in pizza sauce, which research indicates likely plays a role in protecting against cardiovascular disease and various cancers. National Pizza Month is an annual observance that occurs for the month of October in the United States and some areas of Canada. This observance began in October 1984, and was created by Gerry Durnell, the publisher of "Pizza Today"
House protects pizza as a vegetable. [SEP] Leftovers // stocks and broths provide a base for leftover scraps too small to be a meal themselves. Casseroles, paella, fried rice, Shepherd pies, and pizza can also be used for this purpose, and may even have been invented as a means of reusing leftovers. Among American university students, leftover pizza itself has acquired particular in-group significance, to the extent that the USDA's Food Safety and Inspection Service offers, as its first tip under "Food Safety Tips for College Students" by Louisa Graham, a discussion of the considerable risks of eating unrefrigerated pizza. At some holiday meals, such as Christmas and Thanksgiving
House protects pizza as a vegetable. [SEP] Chicago-style pizza // if they were used as the top layer of the pizza. Because of this, the toppings are assembled "upside-down" from their usual order on a pizza. The crust is covered with cheese (generally sliced mozzarella), followed by various meat options such as pepperoni or sausage, the latter of which sometimes is in a solid patty-like layer. Other toppings such as onions, mushrooms and bell peppers are then also used. An uncooked sauce, typically made from crushed canned tomatoes, is added as the finishing layer; though sometimes, a sprinkling of Parmesan cheese is added for extra flavor. It is typical that
House protects pizza as a vegetable. [SEP] Pizza saver // Pizza saver A pizza saver or package saver (sometimes referred to as pizza table, pizza Ottoman, or pizza nipple) is an object used to prevent the top of a food container, such as a pizza box or cake box, from collapsing in at the center and touching the food inside. A pizza saver is made of plastic and has three (sometimes four) legs. They are often white, and the common practice is to place one pizza saver in the center of the pizza before the box lid is closed for delivery. The pizza saver is not re-used and is typically
House protects pizza as a vegetable. [SEP] FTL Newsfeed // tomatoes, steaks, potatoes, linguine, broccoli, etc. (The meats are more real than the vegetables.) But most people agree it's just not the same thing. People get by on TFP but never pass up an opportunity to grow their own veggies. That's why every rooftop is a garden, and outside every window with a sunny exposure hangs a window-box sprouting vegetables. During the growing seasons the southern flanks of most dwellings are festooned with window gardens, like the hanging gardens of Babylon. What isn't eaten can be bartered in the credit-free black market. Since most anti-drug laws were abolished a century
Penn study: Pay patients to take their pills [SEP] Express Scripts // company had kept tens of millions of dollars in drug rebates owed to the state. The suit was filed in the New York Supreme Court in Albany County. The lawsuit further claimed that Express Scripts had overstated the cost benefits of switching to certain preferred medications. In 2008 the company settled the lawsuit, agreeing to pay $9.3 million to Pennsylvania and 28 other states to resolve claims of deceptive business practices. As part of the settlement, the company also agreed to change its business practices and pay up to $200,000 in reimbursement to patients. In October 2008, the St. Louis
Penn study: Pay patients to take their pills [SEP] Ameritox // School of Population Health at Thomas Jefferson University conducted a national study to determine the rates of inappropriate use, and likely abuse, misuse and diversion of opioids among chronic pain patients, as measured by urine drug testing in the clinical setting. The results showed that 75% of patients in the study may not have been taking their pain medication consistent with their prescribed regimen. In 2010, the United States Attorney Robert E. O’Neill and Ameritox, Ltd. reached an agreement to pay $16.3 million in a civil settlement that addressed allegations that it paid kickbacks to providers in order to induce
Penn study: Pay patients to take their pills [SEP] Dana Goldman // numbers, the American Society of Health System Pharmacists say Americans spent $307.5 billion on pharmaceuticals in 2010. Research by Goldman, Joyce, Escarce, Pace, Soloman, Laouri, Landsman, and Teutsch (2001) studied the purchasing behavior of drugs used to treat eight chronic illnesses: diabetes, high blood pressure, high cholesterol, asthma, depression, allergies, arthritis, and stomach ulcers. This retrospective study presents a strong correlation between co-payment levels and medication use for these chronic illnesses. The study illustrated the change in consumption behaviors based on plan generosity and structure such as coinsurance rates and mandatory generic substitution. The study by Goldman et al. (2001)
Penn study: Pay patients to take their pills [SEP] Pills Anonymous // thousand PA members in the United States, Canada and other countries attending over 60 meetings per week. On-line meetings exist as well. The only requirement for membership is "a desire to stop using pills", and members "meet regularly to help each other stay clean", where "clean" is defined as complete abstinence from all mood- and mind-altering substances (including alcohol). Membership in P.A. is free, and there are no dues or fees. The foundation of the Pills Anonymous program is the twelve steps and twelve traditions. Pills Anonymous "has no opinion on outside issues", including those of politics, science, or medicine,
Penn study: Pay patients to take their pills [SEP] Pills Anonymous // Pills Anonymous Pills Anonymous (PA) is a twelve-step program for people who seek recovery from prescription drug addiction. PA is patterned very closely after Alcoholics Anonymous, although the two groups are not affiliated. PA uses the book "There Is A Solution: The Twelve Steps and Twelve Traditions of Pills Anonymous" (), created as a combined text and study guide for pill addicts to use in their recovery, and to further their understanding of the Twelve Steps and Twelve Traditions and apply them in their daily lives. The PA book was published in August 2013. As of 2013, there are several
Penn study: Pay patients to take their pills [SEP] Prescription drug prices in the United States // June 2015, they had not filled a prescription in the past 12 months due to cost, and 18 percent reported they "cut pills in half or skipped doses" according to a Kaiser Family Foundation survey. A 2015 survey by the National Center for Health Statistics found that 8% of Americans did not take their medications as prescribed to save money. Similar studies, done ten years prior, found numbers very similar to the 2015 numbers from the Kasier Family Foundation survey. In 2007, it was estimated that 23.1% of Americans (51 million) had not adhered to their prescription instructions due to
Penn study: Pay patients to take their pills [SEP] Co-pay card // card giving patients the opportunity to save up to $20 off each prescription fill. A patient receives the co-pay card and visits their pharmacy. The patient provides his insurance card and co-pay card to the pharmacist. The pharmacist enters information into his pharmacy management system from both cards. The insurance benefit manager recognizes the drug as a TIER 3 brand for the patient and relays the patient co-pay to be $30.00. The co-pay card benefit manager recognizes the $30.00 and covers the $20.00 of co-pay, leaving $10 for the patient to pay out of pocket. Another patient without prescription insurance
Penn study: Pay patients to take their pills [SEP] Pills Anonymous // Book, "There is a Solution: The Twelve Steps and Twelve Traditions of Pills Anonymous", was published. Pills Anonymous Pills Anonymous (PA) is a twelve-step program for people who seek recovery from prescription drug addiction. PA is patterned very closely after Alcoholics Anonymous, although the two groups are not affiliated. PA uses the book "There Is A Solution: The Twelve Steps and Twelve Traditions of Pills Anonymous" (), created as a combined text and study guide for pill addicts to use in their recovery, and to further their understanding of the Twelve Steps and Twelve Traditions and apply them in their
Penn study: Pay patients to take their pills [SEP] Prescription costs // often set prices by pills rather than by dose, consumers can sometimes buy double-dose pills, split the pills themselves with their doctor's permission, and save money in the process Prescription drug prices in the United States have been among the highest in the world. The high cost of prescription drugs became a major topic of discussion in the new millennium, leading up to the U.S. health care reform debate of 2009, and received renewed attention in 2015. High prices have been attributed to monopolies given to manufacturers by the government and a lack of ability for organizations to negotiate prices.
Penn study: Pay patients to take their pills [SEP] Take Charge // examinations and pap smears, prescriptions for FDA-approved birth control methods including emergency contraception, and tubal ligation (sterilization) procedures. Services available to eligible men include FDA-approved over the counter contraceptives (such as male and female condoms and spermicide), annual contraceptive counseling sessions, and vasectomy (sterilization) procedures. The program began in July 2001 and has been utilized by over 400,000 men and women. In September 2006, the Washington Department of Social and Health Services published an evaluation of the program, entitled "TAKE CHARGE: Final Evaluation, First Five Years: July 2001-June 2006". According to the report: Take Charge Take Charge is a government
Ken Paxton Says Barack Obama "acknowledged over 20 times" that his administration’s Deferred Action for Parents of Americans "immigration edict was a violation of law and the separation of powers. [SEP] Deferred Action for Parents of Americans // President Barack Obama, along with a number of immigration reform steps including increased resources for border enforcement, new procedures for high-skilled immigrants, and an expansion of the existing Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program. Several states have filed lawsuits against the federal government, arguing that DAPA violates the Constitution and federal statutes. A temporary injunction was issued in February 2015, blocking the program from going into effect while the lawsuit proceeds. A U.S. Supreme Court 4–4 split decision in June 2016 effectively left the block in place. On June 15, 2017, the Trump Administration announced that it was rescinding
Ken Paxton Says Barack Obama "acknowledged over 20 times" that his administration’s Deferred Action for Parents of Americans "immigration edict was a violation of law and the separation of powers. [SEP] Ken Paxton // New York Times", Obama's executive actions "would protect millions of illegal immigrants from deportation and allow them to work indefinitely in the country legally." Paxton argued that the president should not be allowed to "unilaterally rewrite congressional laws and circumvent the people's representatives." The Supreme Court heard the case, "United States v. Texas", and issued a split 4-4 ruling in the case in June 2016. Because of the split ruling, a 2015 lower-court ruling invalidating Obama's plan was left in place. In July 2017, Paxton led a group of Republican Attorneys General and Idaho Governor Butch Otter in threatening the
Ken Paxton Says Barack Obama "acknowledged over 20 times" that his administration’s Deferred Action for Parents of Americans "immigration edict was a violation of law and the separation of powers. [SEP] Deferred Action for Parents of Americans // one dissent. The divided circuit court affirmed the preliminary injunction and ordered the case back to the district court for trial. Judge Jerry Edwin Smith, joined by Judge Jennifer Walker Elrod agreed with the district court that Texas has standing because of the cost of issuing drivers licenses to aliens, and that President Obama’s order violated the rulemaking requirements of the Administrative Procedure Act. The majority made a new finding that the Immigration and Nationality Act “flatly does not permit” deferred action. Judge Carolyn Dineen King dissented, arguing that prosecutorial discretion makes the case non-justiciable, and that there had been
Ken Paxton Says Barack Obama "acknowledged over 20 times" that his administration’s Deferred Action for Parents of Americans "immigration edict was a violation of law and the separation of powers. [SEP] Deferred Action for Parents of Americans // 1990 "Family Fairness" program. Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson then released two memorandums directing the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement to make aliens without criminal histories the lowest priority for removal, and to grant deferred action to illegal immigrants who are the parents of a U.S. citizens or lawful permanent resident. The President’s program, when combined with Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, would have delayed deportation of slightly less than half of the 11 million illegal aliens in the United States. More than 10 million people in the United States reside in a household with at least one adult who
Ken Paxton Says Barack Obama "acknowledged over 20 times" that his administration’s Deferred Action for Parents of Americans "immigration edict was a violation of law and the separation of powers. [SEP] Deferred Action for Parents of Americans // the Deferred Action for Parents of Americans order. On June 27, 2013, the U.S. Senate’s Gang of Eight passed their comprehensive immigration reform bill in the Senate. When pressed to take unilateral executive action to limit deportations on Univision in March 2014, President Barack Obama replied “until Congress passes a new law, then I am constrained in terms of what I am able to do.” On June 9, 2014, House Whip Kevin McCarthy announced that House Republicans had enough votes to pass the bill. However, the next day House Majority Leader Eric Cantor lost his primary election, so on June
Ken Paxton Says Barack Obama "acknowledged over 20 times" that his administration’s Deferred Action for Parents of Americans "immigration edict was a violation of law and the separation of powers. [SEP] Deferred Action for Parents of Americans // 30, Speaker John Boehner announced that he would not bring the bill to a vote. That same day, President Obama delivered remarks in the White House Rose Garden promising to “fix as much of our immigration system as I can on my own, without Congress.” Over the next eight months the Obama Administration went through sixty iterations of different possible executive actions. Finally, on November 20, 2014, President Obama delivered a primetime televised address to the nation announcing DAPA. The Office of Legal Counsel advised that the program was constitutional, finding it was similar to President George H. W. Bush’s
Ken Paxton Says Barack Obama "acknowledged over 20 times" that his administration’s Deferred Action for Parents of Americans "immigration edict was a violation of law and the separation of powers. [SEP] Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals // the Rose Garden of the White House on June 15, 2012. The date was chosen as the 30th anniversary of "Plyler v. Doe", a Supreme Court decision barring public schools from charging illegal immigrant children tuition. The policy was officially established by a memorandum from the Secretary of Homeland Security titled "Exercising Prosecutorial Discretion with Respect to Individuals Who Came to the United States as Children". This policy allowed certain immigrants to escape deportation and obtain work permits for a period of two years—renewable upon good behavior. To apply, immigrants had to be younger than 31 on June 15, 2012,
Ken Paxton Says Barack Obama "acknowledged over 20 times" that his administration’s Deferred Action for Parents of Americans "immigration edict was a violation of law and the separation of powers. [SEP] Immigration reform in the United States // has requested additional funding for screening and deportation, and tougher penalties on smugglers. Arrivals of children at the U.S. borders slowed from in August 2014, compared to May and June. On November 20, 2014, in a televised address from the White House, President Barack Obama announced a program of "deferred action" which would allow roughly 45% of illegal immigrants to legally stay and work in the United States. The largest prior deferral action, in 1990, during the administration of President George H.W. Bush, affected 40% of undocumented immigrants then. Up to 3.7 million undocumented parents of individuals who are U.S.
Ken Paxton Says Barack Obama "acknowledged over 20 times" that his administration’s Deferred Action for Parents of Americans "immigration edict was a violation of law and the separation of powers. [SEP] Deferred Action for Parents of Americans // United States" proceeds. The Obama Administration appealed the order for a preliminary injunction and asked the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit in New Orleans to stay the district court's injunction pending appeal. On May 26, 2015, the administration's motion for a stay was denied by a three member motions panel with one dissent, meaning that the government could not implement DAPA until the Fifth Circuit ruled on the appeal of the injunction order itself. That ruling came on November 9, 2015, with a three-member panel of the Fifth Circuit affirming the district court's preliminary injunction, with
Ken Paxton Says Barack Obama "acknowledged over 20 times" that his administration’s Deferred Action for Parents of Americans "immigration edict was a violation of law and the separation of powers. [SEP] Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals // 2014 by Texas and 25 other states—all with Republican governors. The group of states sued to enjoin the implementation of the Deferred Action for Parents of Americans (DAPA)—another immigration policy—and the DACA expansions announced by the Obama administration. In the lawsuit, the states claimed that, by expanding DACA, the president failed to enforce the nation's immigration laws in contravention to Article Two of the U.S. Constitution. Moreover, the states claimed that the president unilaterally rewrote the law through his actions. As part of the judicial process, in February 2015, Judge Andrew S. Hanen issued a preliminary injunction blocking the expansion
Big Island hospital struck by outbreak of scabies. [SEP] Norfolk and Norwich University Hospital // from the superbug. In 2006 an outbreak of a community-acquired infection Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus Aureus on the neonatal intensive care unit at the hospital, resulted in five babies carrying the organism and possibly contributing to the death of one baby. The hospital was placed on black alert in November 2007 when it ran out of beds for a time. Ambulances were forced to queue outside the building while non-urgent patients were discharged to free up beds and a major incident emergency plan implemented. In March 2011 several wards in the hospital were closed as a result of an outbreak of the
Big Island hospital struck by outbreak of scabies. [SEP] Civilian life under the German occupation of the Channel Islands // dysentery, head lice and scabies, and in major ailments such as typhus, brought to the islands by Russian OT workers. This resulted in a number of deaths. Typhoid and infectious hepatitis appeared more frequently as the war progressed and clean water became scarce. Ambulances changed from motorised back to a horse-drawn wagons. Doctors, dentists, nurses and St John ambulance staff worked quite closely together, treating civilians, soldiers and OT workers. There were restrictions regarding helping injured German soldiers from 1942. Each group had their own hospital. An outbreak of diphtheria in Jersey quickly led to the island running out of
Big Island hospital struck by outbreak of scabies. [SEP] Essex Hospital // hospital, sarcastically noted in his journal on October 19: Since those exposed to smallpox (including recently inoculated) are not contagious for 10 days, visitors were allowed during this time. A newspaper article at the time notes, the patients "are indeed confined to a strict regimen; but they may every day be seen walking the island, shooting wild fowl, playing at quoits, etc." On November 5, 1773 the patients and staff on the island celebrated Pope's Day (a colonial variant of Guy Fawkes Day) by lighting tar barrels "and a large fire displayed from the middle of the Island; the hospital
Big Island hospital struck by outbreak of scabies. [SEP] Irene Condachi // At the onset of war, with many men joining up to fight, women became more involved in the defense services for the island. Along with an ophthalmologist and a dentist, Condachi began the school medical service. Lacking transportation, she walked or hitched rides to visit the various schools of the island to inoculate and perform medical examinations on over 20,000 school children between 1941 and 1942. She was responsible for eradicating scabies in the government schools using a petroleum-based ointment. The conditions of her work were dangerous, as in 1941, government schools were converted into hospitals and refugee centers. While
Big Island hospital struck by outbreak of scabies. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic in Oceania // the Pacific island nation was not immune to the rapidly spreading global threat. On Thursday April 30, 2009, a traveller suspected of being infected by the swine flu virus is under close surveillance at Lautoka Hospital, said the Health Ministry. Hours later, the Health Ministry said there were two suspected cases. 2 cases of H1N1 confirmed in Fiji. As of June 30, 2009 there are 10 confirmed cases of swine Flu in Fiji. On 10 July 2009, a total of 52 cases of swine flu were confirmed in the nation. French Polynesia has reported no cases of swine flu so
Big Island hospital struck by outbreak of scabies. [SEP] Dwight Baldwin (missionary) // struck the islands. By now an experienced practicing physician, Baldwin was able to get Lahaina quarantined and vaccinated as many residents as he could, then set out to take care of people in the far reaches of Maui and adjacent islands. Although precise counts are not known, there were thousands of deaths on Oahu; Baldwin is credited with keeping the toll to only a few hundred on Maui. In 1855 the congregation of Wainee church volunteered their labor under his direction to build a large building called "Hale Aloha" to commemorate living through the epidemics. He was finally granted an
Big Island hospital struck by outbreak of scabies. [SEP] History of the Royal Australian Navy // allowing the infection to spread uncontrollably. The German territory of Samoa was the worst affected of the small islands, the New Zealand administration carried out no efforts to lessen the outbreak and rejected offers of assistance from nearby American Samoa. The New Zealand government officially apologised to Samoa in 2002 for their reaction to the outbreak. On 29 November 1918 the military governor of Apia requested assistance from Wellington; the request was turned down because all doctors were needed in New Zealand. Australia offered the only alternate source of aid. The Commonwealth Naval Board was aware of the worsening situation
Big Island hospital struck by outbreak of scabies. [SEP] Father Damien // the island of Hawaii. While Father Damien was serving in several parishes on Oʻahu, the Kingdom of Hawaiʻi was struggling with a labor shortage and a public health crisis, as identified by planters. Many of the parishioners Native Hawaiians had high mortality rates to such Eurasian infectious diseases as smallpox, cholera, influenza, syphilis, and whooping cough, brought to the Hawaiian Islands by foreign traders, sailors and immigrants. Thousands of Hawaiians died of such diseases, to which they had no acquired immunity. It is believed that Chinese workers carried leprosy (later known as Hansen's disease) to the islands in the 1830s
Big Island hospital struck by outbreak of scabies. [SEP] Prince of Wales Hospital // was admitted to ward 8A on 4 March 2003. The patient had previously visited an ill professor from Guangzhou. The disease was unknown at the time. The infection soon spread extensively in ward 8A, affecting 143 individuals who had direct contact with the patient, including healthcare workers, medical students, other patients in the same ward, visitors, and the patient’s relatives. It was found that the outbreak was amplified by the use of nebuliser treatment on the patient. In response to the outbreak, the hospital had implemented several control measures, including restricting access to the 8th floor of the main building
Big Island hospital struck by outbreak of scabies. [SEP] Children's Island // with a contagious disease, especially active tuberculosis, was admitted. Joint and bone infections (osteomyelitis), both TB and non-TB, are not contagious and these children were admitted. Many other children who were there suffered deformities from rickets or vitamin D deficiency. One persistent problem of the Island is the lack of fresh water: HMS "Fowey" apparently left the island to look for fresh water on Baker's Island in 1776, and some claimed "the hotel had been a failure because there was not enough water on the island for its numerous guests." Water from the island was also on the mind of
Tuberculosis infection found at University of Mississippi. [SEP] History of tuberculosis // In 2008, evidence for tuberculosis infection was discovered in human remains from the Neolithic era dating from 9,000 years ago, in Atlit Yam, a settlement in the eastern Mediterranean. This finding was confirmed by morphological and molecular methods; to date it is the oldest evidence of tuberculosis infection in humans. Evidence of the infection in humans was also found in a cemetery near Heidelberg, in the Neolithic bone remains that show evidence of the type of angulation often seen with spinal tuberculosis. Some authors call tuberculosis the first disease known to mankind. Signs of the disease have also been found
Tuberculosis infection found at University of Mississippi. [SEP] University of Mississippi Medical Center // School of Health Related Professions (SHRP) was added in 1971 and began offering baccalaureate curricula in 1973. The School of Dentistry was authorized in 1973, and its first students were admitted in 1975.The graduate program was elevated to school status in 2001 and designated the School of Graduate Studies in the Health Sciences. The parcel of land on which UMMC's University Hospital sits was once the site of the Mississippi Insane Asylum, which moved its operations in 1935 to Whitfield, Miss., and became Mississippi State Hospital. The bodies of perhaps seven thousand patients have been found on campus in unmarked
Tuberculosis infection found at University of Mississippi. [SEP] University of Mississippi // world's first human lung transplant, in 1963, and the world's first animal-to-human heart transplant, in 1964. The heart of a chimpanzee was used for the heart transplant because of Hardy's research on transplantation, consisting of primate studies during the previous nine years. The University of Mississippi Field Station in Abbeville is a natural laboratory used to study, research and teach about sustainable freshwater ecosystems. Since 1968, the school operates the only legal marijuana farm and production facility in the United States. The National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA) contracts to the university the production of cannabis for the use in
Tuberculosis infection found at University of Mississippi. [SEP] Paleopathology // found. Some diseases are difficult to evaluate in the archaeology, however, tuberculosis can be found and dates as far back as the Neolithic period. Tuberculosis is presumed to have been transmitted from domesticated cattle to humans through ingestion of contaminated meats and the drinking of contaminated milk. It is also possible to contract tuberculosis through contact with infected persons. When an infected person coughs, they eject infected mucus from their body which can possibly infect those close by. There are several types of tuberculosis: the kind that affects cold-blooded animals, the kind that affects birds, and the bovine type that
Tuberculosis infection found at University of Mississippi. [SEP] Healthcare in Norway // and infections by antibiotic-resistant bacteria. Tuberculosis is the most infectious disease worldwide, and is a major challenge in global health care. However, in Norway, the decline in the number of tuberculosis cases continues. By 2017, a total of 261 patients with tuberculosis disease were reported to the Public Health Institute. This is a decline from the previous years. During the last twenty years, the highest number of patients with tuberculosis was 392 in 2013 . It makes Norway one of the countries with the lowest tuberculosis presence in the world. Differences in the global disease burden of tuberculosis are also
Tuberculosis infection found at University of Mississippi. [SEP] Mississippi State Hospital // its current location, the former property of a state penal colony, the Rankin Farm. MSH became overcrowded. It held people with severe mental illness, as well as people suffering from alcoholism, depression, menopause, and other ailments that have been resolved with modern medicine in later generations. In the 1930s, the facility consisted of acres of farmland, including cultivated acres. MSH was a self-sufficient facility, with its own bakery, dairy, laundry, post office, tuberculosis hospital, and water wells. Hunter Cole, author of "The Legs Murder Scandal", said that in the 1930s, MSH appeared "more like an estate than a prison" due
Tuberculosis infection found at University of Mississippi. [SEP] H37Rv // H37Rv Mycobacterium tuberculosis strain H37Rv is the most studied strain of tuberculosis in research laboratories. It was first isolated by Dr. Edward R. Baldwin in 1905. The strain came from a 19 year old patient with chronic pulmonary tuberculosis at the Trudeau Sanatorium in Saranac Lake, New York. It was maintained for many years by serial passage of cultures at the Trudeau Sanatorium and initially named strain H37. Over time it was found to have variable virulence in animal models based on which medium it was grown on. Strains with different virulence were then intentionally produced, with H37R being less
Tuberculosis infection found at University of Mississippi. [SEP] University of Mississippi Medical Center // kidney, liver, pancreas, cornea and bone marrow transplant programs; a comprehensive stroke unit; state-of-the-art radiological imaging systems; a sleep disorders laboratory; an in vitro fertilization program; and special pharmaceutical services. A portion of land on the UMMC campus was once the site of the Mississippi Insane Asylum, which moved its operations in 1935 and became Mississippi State Hospital. UMMC has the only hospital in the state designated as a Level 1 trauma center, and the state's only Level 4 neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) located in the Wiser Hospital for Women and Infants. The Medical Center also has the only
Tuberculosis infection found at University of Mississippi. [SEP] History of tuberculosis // of a study in August 2014 revealed that TB had likely been spread via seals that contracted it on beaches of Africa, from humans via domesticated animals, and carried it across the Atlantic. A team at the University of Tubingen analyzed tuberculosis DNA in 1,000-year-old skeletons of the Chiribaya culture in southern Peru; so much genetic material was recovered that they could reconstruct the genome. They learned that this TB strain was related most closely to a form found only in seals. In South America, it was likely contracted first by hunters who handled contaminated meat. This TB is a
Tuberculosis infection found at University of Mississippi. [SEP] History of tuberculosis // it across the Atlantic. In addition, TB spread via humans on the trade routes of the Old World. Other researchers have argued there is other evidence that suggests the tuberculosis bacteria is older than 6,000 years. This TB strain found in Peru is different from that prevalent today in the Americas, which is more closely related to a later Eurasian strain likely brought by European colonists. However, this result is criticised by other experts from the field, for instance because there is evidence of the presence of Mycobacterium tuberculosis in 9000 year old skeletal remains. Although relatively little is known
The Affordable Care Act says that "at age 76 when you most need it most, you are not eligible for cancer treatment. …  Cancer hospital will ration care according to the patient's age. [SEP] Socialized medicine // had alleged that America will create rationing "death panels" to decide whether old people could live or die, again widely taken to be a reference to NICE. U.S. Senator Chuck Grassley alleged that he was told that Senator Edward Kennedy would have been refused the brain tumor treatment he was receiving in the United States had he instead lived a country with government run health care. This, he alleged, would have been due to rationing because of Kennedy's age (77 years) and the high cost of treatment. The UK Department of Health said that Grassley’s claims were "just wrong" and
The Affordable Care Act says that "at age 76 when you most need it most, you are not eligible for cancer treatment. …  Cancer hospital will ration care according to the patient's age. [SEP] Cancer survivor // they are going to, for the majority of the population, undergo the most change. This reality underscores the importance of a smooth transition from child-centered to adult-focused health care services through which they are consistently managed. The US Affordable Care Act (ACA) in 2010 makes it illegal for health insurance providers to deny coverage for a pre-existing condition, such as previously having survived cancer. Young adults will now be required to have insurance coverage and, with a few exceptions, will be able to be covered under their parent's coverage until the age of 26 as a dependent in their parent's
The Affordable Care Act says that "at age 76 when you most need it most, you are not eligible for cancer treatment. …  Cancer hospital will ration care according to the patient's age. [SEP] Healthcare rationing in the United States // because many of those poor people who are now being denied funding will lose their lives or have health because of the political decision. In the US, the discussion on rationing healthcare for the elderly began to be noticed widely in 1983 when economist Alan Greenspan asked "whether it is worth it" in referring to the use of 30% of the Medicare budget on 5-6% of those eligible who then die within a year of receiving treatment. In 1984, the Democratic governor of Colorado, Richard Lamm, was widely quoted but claimed to have been misquoted as saying that the elderly
The Affordable Care Act says that "at age 76 when you most need it most, you are not eligible for cancer treatment. …  Cancer hospital will ration care according to the patient's age. [SEP] Health care efficiency // can die at the same age after receiving successful treatment for his or her diseases (including life-threatening ones) and therefore enjoying much better health. Consider for instance a hypothetical Libyan man who died at 75 after poorly treated and long-lasting tooth problems, skin problems, gastrointestinal problems, urinary problems, joint problems, ear problems and eye problems. Then consider a hypothetical Danish man who died at the same age and had the same problems, each one of them promptly and effectively (and expensively) treated, and who was saved from cancer and myocardial infarction. The differences are striking. According to Bloomberg, however, there
The Affordable Care Act says that "at age 76 when you most need it most, you are not eligible for cancer treatment. …  Cancer hospital will ration care according to the patient's age. [SEP] Healthcare rationing in the United States // "have a duty to die and get out of the way." Medical ethicist Daniel Callahan's 1987 "Setting Limits: Medical Goals in an Aging Society" discusses whether healthcare should be rationed by age. He calls the elderly "a new social threat" and selfish and for age to be used as a criterion in limiting healthcare. Callahan's book has been widely discussed in the America media, including the "New York Times", the "Washington Post", the "Wall Street Journal", and "just about every relevant professional and scholarly journal and newsletter." One of the major arguments against such age-based rationing is the fact that
The Affordable Care Act says that "at age 76 when you most need it most, you are not eligible for cancer treatment. …  Cancer hospital will ration care according to the patient's age. [SEP] American Cancer Society Cancer Action Network // years. Under the Affordable Care Act, patients are protected from discrimination by insurance companies against people with pre-existing conditions, such as cancer, and insurance companies can no longer drop a person if he or she gets sick. These provisions ultimately reduce cost burden on patients and their families. Further, the law prohibits companies from denying coverage to children with pre-existing conditions, eliminates lifetime benefit limits and annual benefit limits that can cause sudden termination of health care coverage, and allows children to stay on their parent’s health plan until the age of 26. Also, if a person has been uninsured
The Affordable Care Act says that "at age 76 when you most need it most, you are not eligible for cancer treatment. …  Cancer hospital will ration care according to the patient's age. [SEP] Breast cancer screening // of women with Medicaid insurance, 38% of currently uninsured women, and 33% of women uninsured for more than 12 months). All U.S. states except Utah require private health insurance plans and Medicaid to pay for breast cancer screening. As of 1998, Medicare (available to those aged 65 or older or who have been on Social Security Disability Insurance for over 2 years) pays for annual screening mammography in women aged 40 or older. Three out of twelve (3/12) breast cancer screening programs in Canada offer clinical breast examinations. All twelve offer screening mammography every two years for women aged 50–69,
The Affordable Care Act says that "at age 76 when you most need it most, you are not eligible for cancer treatment. …  Cancer hospital will ration care according to the patient's age. [SEP] Medicare (United States) // in geographic Health Professional Shortage Areas (HPSAs) and Physician Scarcity Areas (PSAs) can receive incentive payments from Medicare. Payments are made on a quarterly basis, rather than claim-by-claim, and are handled by each area's Medicare carrier." Enrollment Generally, if you already receive Social Security payments, at age 65 you are automatically enrolled in Medicare Part A (Hospital Insurance) and Medicare Part B (Medical Insurance). If you choose not to accept Part B (typically becasue you are still working and receiving employer insurance), you must proactively opt out of it when you receive your automatic enrollment package. You may delay Part
The Affordable Care Act says that "at age 76 when you most need it most, you are not eligible for cancer treatment. …  Cancer hospital will ration care according to the patient's age. [SEP] Healthcare rationing in the United States // and other federal and state eligibility regulations apply. Health maintenance organizations (HMOs), which are common among the rest of the population, restrict access to treatment by financial and clinical access limits. Those 65 and older and a few othera also qualify for the Medicare, but it also has many restrictions. In the media and in academia, some have advocated explicit healthcare rationing to limit the cost of Medicare and Medicaid. They argue that a proper rationing mechanism would be more equitable and cost-effective. The Congressional Budget Office (CBO) has argued that health care costs are the primary driver of government
The Affordable Care Act says that "at age 76 when you most need it most, you are not eligible for cancer treatment. …  Cancer hospital will ration care according to the patient's age. [SEP] Medicare (United States) // 10 years after accounting for the necessary expansion of Medicaid and state health insurance exchange subsidies under health care reform, which are needed to help those who could not afford insurance purchase it. The Kaiser Family Foundation found that raising the age of eligibility would save the federal government $5.7 billion a year, while raising costs for other payers. According to Kaiser, raising the age would cost $3.7 billion to 65- and 66-year-olds, $2.8 billion to other consumers whose premiums would rise as insurance pools absorbed more risk, $4.5 billion to employers offering insurance, and $0.7 billion to states expanding
‘Critical moment’ for firms amid retirements, opioid crisis. [SEP] Opioid epidemic // as heroin. Many state governors have declared a "state of emergency" to combat the opioid epidemic or undertook other major efforts against it. In July 2017, opioid addiction was cited as the "FDA's biggest crisis". In October 2017, President Donald Trump concurred with his Commission's report and declared the country's opioid crisis a "public health emergency". Federal and state interventions are working on employing health information technology in order to expand the impact of existing drug monitoring programs. Recent research shows promising results in mortality and morbidity reductions when a state integrates drug monitoring programs with health information technologies and
‘Critical moment’ for firms amid retirements, opioid crisis. [SEP] Patrick J. Kennedy // mental health advocates, business leaders, and government agencies around a common set of principles, including full implementation of the Federal Parity Law. In 2018, "Politico" termed Kennedy "the unlikely go-to player for companies seeking to benefit from the Trump administration’s multibillion-dollar response to the opioid crisis". Kennedy sits on the boards of eight corporations involved with the government's response to the drug crisis. He "holds an equity stake in the firms" and "collects director fees" from the latter organizations, many of which "stand to benefit from fresh efforts in Congress and the Trump administration to combat the opioid crisis". As
‘Critical moment’ for firms amid retirements, opioid crisis. [SEP] Opioid epidemic // those deaths from opioids. In 2016, the crisis decreased overall life expectancy of Americans for the second consecutive year. Overall life expectancy fell from 78.7 to 78.6 years. Men were disproportionately more affected due to higher overdose death rates, with life expectancy declining from 76.3 to 76.1 years. Women's life expectancy remained stable at 81.1 years. What the U.S. Surgeon General dubbed "The Opioid Crisis" likely began with over-prescription of opioids in the 1990s, which led to them becoming the most prescribed class of medications in the United States. Opioids initiated for post surgery or pain management are one of
‘Critical moment’ for firms amid retirements, opioid crisis. [SEP] Opioid epidemic // including appointees at ONDCP; the Department of Justice, including the DEA; the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA); and elsewhere in his administration. Avalere Health has researched recent individual state efforts to combat the opioid crisis by providing access to life-saving drugs typically associated with opioid overdoses. Their research measured how states are performing in providing a key frontline treatment for opioid addiction (Buprenorphine), compared to the amount of opioid overdose deaths they have by state. Generally, the more access a state can provided drug users to the drug, the lower the mortality rate amongst opioid addicts were
‘Critical moment’ for firms amid retirements, opioid crisis. [SEP] Opioid epidemic // shares data through centralized platform. The Substance Use-Disorder Prevention that Promotes Opioid Recovery and Treatment for Patients and Communities Act or the SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act was introduced by the U.S. House of Representatives on June 22, 2018 and was advanced on June 22, 2018. The bill includes Medicare and Medicaid reform in order to improve treatment, recovery, and prevention efforts while also strengthening the fight against synthetic drugs like fentanyl. On September 17, 2018, the U.S. Senate approved the SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act (H.R. 6). The committee reached a final agreement on terms of the
‘Critical moment’ for firms amid retirements, opioid crisis. [SEP] Presidency of Donald Trump // drug experts and opted instead for the use of political staff. In February 2018, Politico wrote that the administration's "main response" to the opioid crisis had "so far has been to call for a border wall and to promise a "just say no" campaign." In October 2017, the administration declared a 90-day public health emergency over the opioid epidemic and pledged to urgently mobilize the federal government in response to the crisis. On January 11, 2018, 12 days before the declaration ran out, Politico noted that "beyond drawing more attention to the crisis, virtually nothing of consequence has been done."
‘Critical moment’ for firms amid retirements, opioid crisis. [SEP] Opioid use disorder // introduced a strategic framework called the Five-Point Opioid Strategy, which includes providing access recovery services, increasing the availability of reversing agents for overdose, funding opioid misuse and pain research, changing treatments of people managing pain, and updating public health reports related to combating opioid drug misuse. The prevalence of opioid use and opioid or opiate dependency varies by age and gender, among a myriad of other factors. Men are at higher risk for opioid use and dependency than women, and men also account for more opioid overdoses than women, although this gap is closing. Women are more likely to be
‘Critical moment’ for firms amid retirements, opioid crisis. [SEP] Opioid epidemic // July 2017, a 400-page report by the National Academy of Sciences presented plans to reduce the addiction crisis, which it said was killing 91 people each day. SAMHSA administers the Opioid State Targeted Response grants, a two-year program authorized by the 21st Century Cures Act which provided $485 million to states and U.S. territories in the fiscal year 2017 for the purpose of preventing and combatting opioid misuse and addiction. CDC former director Thomas Frieden said that "America is awash in opioids; urgent action is critical." The crisis has changed moral, social, and cultural resistance to street drug alternatives such
‘Critical moment’ for firms amid retirements, opioid crisis. [SEP] Baron & Budd, P.C. // & Budd investigated potential lawsuits that were related to allegations that pharmaceutical distributors “deliberately failed to monitor and report suspicious orders of opioids.” This failed monitoring and reporting, the firm argued, potentially played a role in the opioid epidemic. The law firm had previously won a $177 million settlement against GlaxoSmithKline for the drug Avandia, arguing that the company misrepresented the drug by saying that it reduced adverse cardiac of events, when in actuality it did not. Baron & Budd has been described as "generous in giving back to the community", engaged in activities such as giving holiday presents to
‘Critical moment’ for firms amid retirements, opioid crisis. [SEP] Opioid epidemic // stifle high-risk prescribing practices (such as prescribing high doses of opioids or prescribing opioids long-term). These new laws fell primarily into 1 of the following 4 categories: In July 2016, governors from 45 U.S. states and three territories entered into a formal "Compact to Fight Opioid Addiction". They agreed that collective action would be needed to end the opioid crisis, and they would coordinate their responses across all levels of government and the private sector, including opioid manufacturers and doctors. In March 2017, several states issues responses to the opioid crisis. The governor of Maryland declared a state of emergency
Eating more fish could prevent Parkinson's disease [SEP] Oily fish // and the presence of dementia symptoms. The conclusion was that people who ate fish at least once a week had a significantly lower risk of being diagnosed with dementia over a seven-year period. This study reinforced the Annals of Neurology findings. Because of the longer term, the BMJ study provided stronger evidence of a genuine protective effect. There was a possible confounding factor in that individuals with higher education have both a lower risk of dementia and higher consumption of fish. Consuming 200–400 g of oily fish twice per week may also help prevent sudden death due to myocardial infarction
Eating more fish could prevent Parkinson's disease [SEP] Oily fish // help improve inflammatory conditions such as arthritis. A 1997 study published in "Annals of Neurology" followed 5,386 elderly participants in Rotterdam. It found that fish consumption decreased the risk of dementia. However, the 2.1-year average follow-up was less than the three years dementia commonly affects people prior to diagnosis. Thus, the study was unclear as to whether fish consumption protected against dementia, or if dementia prevented the participants from wanting more fish. French research published in 2002 in the "British Medical Journal" (BMJ) followed 1,674 elderly residents of southern France for seven years, studying their consumption of meat versus seafood
Eating more fish could prevent Parkinson's disease [SEP] Seasonal affective disorder // be attributed to the large amount of fish traditionally eaten by Icelandic people, in 2007 about 90 kilograms per person per year as opposed to about 24 kg in the US and Canada, rather than to genetic predisposition; a similar anomaly is noted in Japan, where annual fish consumption in recent years averages about 60 kg per capita. Fish are high in vitamin D. Fish also contain docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), which help with a variety of neurological dysfunctions. In the United States, a diagnosis of seasonal affective disorder was first proposed by Norman E. Rosenthal, M.D. in 1984. Rosenthal wondered
Eating more fish could prevent Parkinson's disease [SEP] Dietary management of Parkinson's disease // reducing drugs. In order to cope with the decrease in energy that many patients express, smaller meals are recommended for such cases. A good diet includes high fiber foods (such as vegetables, dried peas, beans, whole grain foods, pasta, rice, and fresh fruit) in order to reduce constipation, low saturated fats and cholesterol, low sugar and salt intake, plenty of water, and limited alcohol intake. Treatments are only effective in moderating the symptoms of the disease, mainly with drugs including levodopa (L-DOPA) and dopamine agonists. Once too many dopamine producing cells have been lost however, the effects of L-DOPA become
Eating more fish could prevent Parkinson's disease [SEP] Dietary management of Parkinson's disease // Parkinson’s disease. Promising research shows that a diet consisting of foods typically associated with a Mediterranean diet may act as a preventative measure for the disease due to the high levels of antioxidants found in within these foods such as complex phenols, vitamins C and E, and carotenoids. A typical Mediterranean diet consists of a high intake of vegetables, legumes, fruits, and cereals, olive oil (unsaturated fatty acids), and fish and low to moderate intake of foods such as dairy, meats, poultry. Other research has shown that diets rich in dairy products result in a higher likelihood of developing Parkinson’s
Eating more fish could prevent Parkinson's disease [SEP] Dietary management of Parkinson's disease // disease. Additionally, it has been seen that the intake of animal fats may be linked to the development of the disease. It has also been suggested that a diet that results in high plasma urate can result in a reduced risk of developing PD due to urate’s ability to reduce oxidative stresses by scavenging peroxynitrite and hydroxyl radicals. Typical symptoms of the disease include bodily shaking, rigidity, slowness of movement, difficulty in movement, as well as other motor related symptoms. As the disease progresses, patients suffer from cognitive and behavior problems such as dementia, sensory impairment, sleep problems, and emotional
Eating more fish could prevent Parkinson's disease [SEP] Nutrition and pregnancy // considered as important for fetal neurodevelopment. Additionally, fish are good sources of vitamins A, D, and B12, as well as the mineral iodine. Due to risks of heavy-metal toxicity on fetal neurodevelopment, many mothers are concerned about eating fish during pregnancy. Overall, current research favors the notion that the benefits of fish consumption during pregnancy outweigh the risks; however, the type of fish is important. Current research suggests that 2-3 servings of low-methylmercury containing fish per week in pregnancy is both safe and beneficial. Mercury accumulates in fish through their own diet (bioaccumulation). A general rule of thumb is that
Eating more fish could prevent Parkinson's disease [SEP] Mercury poisoning // Gulf of Mexico, and to limit consumption of albacore ("white") tuna to no more than per week, and of all other fish and shellfish to no more than per week. A 2006 review of the risks and benefits of fish consumption found, for adults, the benefits of one to two servings of fish per week outweigh the risks, even (except for a few fish species) for women of childbearing age, and that avoidance of fish consumption could result in significant excess coronary heart disease deaths and suboptimal neural development in children. The period between exposure to methylmercury and the appearance
Eating more fish could prevent Parkinson's disease [SEP] Fish oil // aggressive prostate cancer with higher blood levels of combined EPA and DHA. Some evidence indicated an association between high blood levels of omega-3 fatty acids and an increased prostate cancer risk. Fish oil supplement studies have failed to support claims of preventing heart attacks or strokes. Earlier, in 2007, the American Heart Association had recommended the consumption of 1 gram of fish oil daily, preferably by eating fish, for patients with coronary artery disease, but cautioned pregnant and nursing women to avoid eating fish with high potential for mercury contaminants including mackerel, shark, and swordfish. (Optimal dosage was related to
Eating more fish could prevent Parkinson's disease [SEP] Dietary management of Parkinson's disease // include taking carbidopa (Sinemet), sugary drinks to calm the stomach, and avoidance of orange and grapefruit juices due to high acidity. Some PD medications are known to cause the subject to become thirsty, and methods to reduce thirst include drinking plenty of water as well as limiting caffeine uptake because it may interfere with medication or increase thirst. Dietary management of Parkinson's disease Parkinson's disease is the 2nd most prevalent neurological disorder within the United States and Europe, affecting around 1% of the population over the age of 60. While the link connecting the onset of Parkinson’s disease to environmental
Eleven states have banned the use of electronic cigarettes inside cars. [SEP] Regulation of electronic cigarettes // 2015, five US states and over 400 counties have implemented some form of restriction of ECIG use indoors. International policies are more varied with certain restrictions for ECIG use in UK airports and trains and reports of complete ECIG bans in indoor public places for Malta, Belgium and Spain". San Francisco banned the sale of flavored e-liquids in 2018. They are the first city in the US to enact such a ban. (see also Electronic cigarettes in Australia): The Federal Department of Health and Ageing classifies every form of nicotine, except for replacement therapies and cigarettes, as a form of
Eleven states have banned the use of electronic cigarettes inside cars. [SEP] Smoking bans in private vehicles // Utah (<15), Vermont (<8), and Virginia (<8). It is banned in certain counties and cities of Hawaii, Indiana, Kansas, New Jersey, New York, Kentucky, and Alabama. Finland intends to ban smoking in cars while children are present. Furthermore, smoking in places where children are present is to be banned generally. Greece is about to ban smoking in cars. Irish anti-smoking campaigners and scientists are urging the government to introduce such a ban. In July 2011 the Minister for Health revealed that he was considering a ban where children are present in the car. The senator and oncologist John Crown has
Eleven states have banned the use of electronic cigarettes inside cars. [SEP] Regulation of electronic cigarettes // have broadened their indoor smoking bans to include e-cigarettes. As of 9 October 2015, at least 48 states and 2 territories banned e-cigarette sales to minors. E-cigarettes have been listed as drug delivery devices in several countries because they contain nicotine, and their advertising has been restricted until safety and efficacy clinical trials are conclusive. Since they do not contain tobacco, television advertising in the US is not restricted. Some countries have regulated e-cigarettes as a medical product even though they have not approved them as a smoking cessation aid. A 2014 review stated the emerging phenomenon of e-cigarettes has
Eleven states have banned the use of electronic cigarettes inside cars. [SEP] Electronic cigarette // some states tax e-cigarettes as tobacco products, and some state and regional governments have broadened their indoor smoking bans to include e-cigarettes. As of 9 October 2015, at least 48 states and 2 territories banned e-cigarette sales to minors. In November 2018 the FDA announced new steps to curb youth vaping while still ensuring the adults who would benefit from electronic cigarettes still had access to a healthier nicotine delivery system. Sales of flavored tobacco products will be limited to adult only stores and online vendors with the exception of tobacco, mint or menthol electronic cigarettes that will remain for
Eleven states have banned the use of electronic cigarettes inside cars. [SEP] Prohibited activities on public transport // cigarettes which burn something that generates smoke (e.g. tobacco or marijuana), although some localities want to ban public smoking of electronic cigarettes. In 1975, a federal law was passed in the United States banning smoking in all public transport vehicles. Some intercity bus services will stop to offer smoke breaks to riders. Most systems prohibit the use of audio-producing devices, such as radios, CD players, MP3 players, musical instruments, or other similar gadgets without an earphone through which only the listener can hear. Some public transport systems prohibit or limit the use of mobile phones while on board. Some rail
Eleven states have banned the use of electronic cigarettes inside cars. [SEP] Regulation of electronic cigarettes // in the other states vary. The states of Karnataka, Kerala, Punjab, Jammu and Kashmir, Mizoram and Maharashtra have banned e-cigarettes under the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940, and Food Safety & Standards (Prohibition and Restriction on Sales) Regulation, 2011. In August 2018, the Central Government had asked the states to ban all types of Electronic Nicotine Delivery Systems. Regulation of electronic cigarettes Regulation of electronic cigarettes varies across countries and states, ranging from no regulation to banning them entirely. Others have introduced strict restrictions and some have licensed devices as medicines such as in the UK. , around two thirds
Eleven states have banned the use of electronic cigarettes inside cars. [SEP] Regulation of electronic cigarettes // law defines e-cigarettes is critical, with some definitions allowing e-cigarettes to avoid smoke-free laws, taxation, and restrictions on sales and marketing. Less policies have been created to restrict vaping indoors than with cigarette smoking. Many local and state jurisdictions have recently begun enacting laws that prohibit e-cigarette usage everywhere that smoking is banned, although some state laws with comprehensive smoke-free laws will still allow for vaping to be permitted in bars and restaurants while prohibiting e-cigarettes in other indoor places. As of August 2016, the United States Navy is considering banning e-cigarettes. A 2017 report stated "As of 2 October
Eleven states have banned the use of electronic cigarettes inside cars. [SEP] Regulation of electronic cigarettes // branding that resembles food, candy, or beverage items as being misbranded and using false advertising, which is illegal under the Tobacco Control Act of 2009 (specifically sections 903(a)(1) and 903(a)(7)(A) of the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, ). Effective 8 August 2016, all US states will follow the same, uniform federal guidelines. With an absence of federal regulations, many states and cities had adopted their own e-cigarette regulations, most commonly to prohibit sales to minors, including Maryland, Kentucky, Minnesota, New Jersey, New Hampshire, Tennessee, Utah, Wisconsin, and Colorado. Other states are considering similar legislation. Several US cities and states have
Eleven states have banned the use of electronic cigarettes inside cars. [SEP] Smoking bans in private vehicles // banned in all vehicles carrying passengers under the age of 18. Drivers under the age of 18 (the legal driving age in Jersey is 17) are also forbidden to smoke whilst in their own vehicles, even if they are the only passengers. The law came into force on 1 September 2015, after debate in the States Assembly and is the first place in the British Isles to enact a ban of this sort. A smoking ban in cars with children is being tested in the states of Arkansas (<14), California (<18), Louisiana (<13), Maine (<16), Oregon (<18), Puerto Rico (<13),
Eleven states have banned the use of electronic cigarettes inside cars. [SEP] Frank Artiles // session, Artiles sponsored legislation that made electronic cigarettes illegal for minors to use. Though the bill initially contained a provision that Artiles hoped would result in a statewide ban on e-cigarettes, an amendment sponsored by fellow Republican State Representative Bill Hager stripped the provision from the bill that "would have prevented local governments from creating their own rules on e-cigarettes and tobacco products." Following a unanimous vote in support of the bill, Artiles remarked, "At the end of the day, the state of Florida has acted before the federal government in protecting our children from contaminating their lungs with vaporizing
The coronavirus has seen a “big surge in New Zealand. It's terrible. We don't want that. [SEP] Coronavirus // 2013, a case of contamination from human to human in France was confirmed by the French Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. In addition, cases of person-to-person transmission have been reported by the Ministry of Health in Tunisia. Two confirmed cases seem to have caught the disease from their late father, who became ill after a visit to Qatar and Saudi Arabia. By Oct. 30 2013, there were 124 cases and 52 deaths in Saudi Arabia. After the Dutch Erasmus Medical Centre sequenced the virus, the virus was given a new name, Human Corona Virus-Erasmus Medical Centre (HCoV-EMC). The final
The coronavirus has seen a “big surge in New Zealand. It's terrible. We don't want that. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // coronavirus researcher at the Erasmus Medical Center (EMC) in Rotterdam, The Netherlands. The second laboratory-proven case was in London, confirmed by the UK Health Protection Agency (HPA). The HPA named the virus the London1_novel CoV 2012. On 8 November 2012, in an article published in the New England Journal of Medicine, Dr. Zaki and co-authors from the Erasmus Medical Center published more details, including a scientific name, Human Coronavirus-Erasmus Medical Center (HCoV-EMC), which was then used in scientific literature. In the article, they noted four respiratory human coronaviruses (HCoV) known to be endemic: 229E, OC43, NL63, and HKU1. In May
The coronavirus has seen a “big surge in New Zealand. It's terrible. We don't want that. [SEP] Coronavirus // has emerged around the world. Its economic importance is as yet unclear, but shows high mortality in piglets. The most recent common ancestor of the coronavirus has been placed at 8,000 years BC. They may be considerably older than this. Another estimate places the most recent common ancestor (MRCA) of all coronaviruses ~8100 BC. The MRCA of Alphacoronavirus, Betacoronavirus, Gammacoronavirus, and Deltacoronavirus have been placed at ~2400 BC, ~3300 BC, ~2800 BC and ~3000 BC, respectively. It appears that bats and birds, the warm blooded flying vertebrates, are ideal hosts for the coronavirus gene source with bats for Alphacoronavirus and
The coronavirus has seen a “big surge in New Zealand. It's terrible. We don't want that. [SEP] Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus // similar cases appeared in Qatar and Saudi Arabia. Additional cases were noted, with deaths associated, and rapid research and monitoring of this novel coronavirus began. It is not certain whether the infections are the result of a single zoonotic event with subsequent human-to-human transmission, or if the multiple geographic sites of infection represent multiple zoonotic events from a common unknown source. A study by Ziad Memish of Riyadh University and colleagues suggests that the virus arose sometime between July 2007 and June 2012, with perhaps as many as 7 separate zoonotic transmissions. Among animal reservoirs, CoV has a large genetic
The coronavirus has seen a “big surge in New Zealand. It's terrible. We don't want that. [SEP] Coronavirus // of a vaccine against the disease "since [the spike protein] appears to be recognized by the immune system of the host." Following the high-profile publicity of SARS outbreaks, there has been a renewed interest in coronaviruses among virologists. For many years, scientists knew about only two human coronaviruses (HCoV-229E and HCoV-OC43). The discovery of SARS-CoV added a third human coronavirus. By the end of 2004, three independent research labs reported the discovery of a fourth human coronavirus. It has been named NL63, NL, and the New Haven coronavirus by different research groups. The three labs are still arguing over which
The coronavirus has seen a “big surge in New Zealand. It's terrible. We don't want that. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // MERS had infected at least 60 people with cases reported in Jordan, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates (UAE), Tunisia, Germany, the United Kingdom (UK), France and Italy, with a death toll of 38. Saudi officials expressed great concern that millions of Muslims from around the world would potentially be exposed to the virus during the autumn Hajj, or pilgrimage to Mecca. In May 2014, the WHO said it was monitoring the situation as global cases of MERS appeared to be on the rise, but said the situation did not yet constitute a health emergency. On 3 June 2014,
The coronavirus has seen a “big surge in New Zealand. It's terrible. We don't want that. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // and from that family at least one additional person presented similar symptoms but tested negative for the novel coronavirus. On 21 February 2013, WHO stated that there had been 13 laboratory-confirmed cases, 6 cases (4 fatal) from Saudi Arabia, 2 cases (both fatal) from Jordan, 2 cases from Qatar, and 3 from the UK. In March 2013, the Saudi Arabia Ministry of Health reported the death of a 39-year-old man, the 15th case and 9th death reported to WHO. On 2 May 2013, the Saudi Ministry of Health announced five people died and two other people were in critical condition
The coronavirus has seen a “big surge in New Zealand. It's terrible. We don't want that. [SEP] Miniopterus Bat coronavirus HKU8 // North Korea, South Korea, Laos, Lebanon, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Republic of Macedonia, Malaysia, Malta, Montenegro, Morocco, Myanmar, Nepal, Nigeria, Pakistan, Palestine, Papua New Guinea, Philippines, Portugal, Romania, Russian Federation, San Marino, Saudi Arabia, Serbia, Sierra Leone, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, Spain, Sri Lanka, Switzerland, Syrian Arab Republic, Taiwan, Tajikistan, Thailand, Tunisia, Turkey, Turkmenistan, Vietnam, and Yemen. Miniopterus Bat coronavirus HKU8 Miniopterus Bat coronavirus HKU8 is a novel enveloped, single-stranded positive-sense RNA virus species in the Alphacoronavirus genus with a corona-like morphology. It causes severe acute respiratory syndrome in bats. Isolates have not been found in humans. The coronaviruses are
The coronavirus has seen a “big surge in New Zealand. It's terrible. We don't want that. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // with confirmed cases of a SARS-like virus. The delays in obtaining data and absence of basic information (which would usefully include: sex, age, other medical conditions and smoking status) have been noted and decried by Dr. Margaret Chan and in Pro-Med comments on numerous briefings. At the annual meeting of the world’s health ministers, Dr. Chan, director-general of the World Health Organization, said the virus was now her “greatest concern.” On 28 May 2013, the Saudi Ministry of Health reported five more cases of MERS-CoV. The cases have been "recorded among citizens in the Eastern Region, ranging in age from
The coronavirus has seen a “big surge in New Zealand. It's terrible. We don't want that. [SEP] Human coronavirus OC43 // cases occurring in the winter months. Human coronavirus OC43 Human coronavirus OC43 is an enveloped, positive-stranded RNA virus in the species "Betacoronavirus-1" (genus "Betacoronavirus", subfamily "Coronavirinae", family "Coronaviridae", order "Nidovirales"). Four HCoV-OC43 genotypes (A to D), have been identified with genotype D most likely arising from recombination. The complete genome sequencing of two genotype C and D strains and bootscan analysis shows recombination events between genotypes B and C in the generation of genotype D. Of 29 strains identified, none belong to the more ancient genotype A. Molecular clock analysis using spike and nucleocapsid genes dates the most recent common
Shows a waitress saying, "I lost my job. But I'll sleep better knowing” that the coronavirus relief bill included funding for the Kennedy Center, refugee resettlement, PBS, and congressional salaries: “Thanks, Democrats” [SEP] Hurricane Sandy // including Fuse.tv, MTV.com, YouTube, and the sites of AOL and Yahoo! planned to stream the performance. On December 28, 2012, the United States Senate approved an emergency Hurricane Sandy relief bill to provide $60 billion for US states affected by Sandy, but the House in effect postponed action until the next session which began January 3 by adjourning without voting on the bill. On January 4, 2013 House leaders pledged to vote on a flood insurance bill and an aid package by January 15. On January 28, the Senate passed the $50.5 billion Sandy aid bill by a count of
Shows a waitress saying, "I lost my job. But I'll sleep better knowing” that the coronavirus relief bill included funding for the Kennedy Center, refugee resettlement, PBS, and congressional salaries: “Thanks, Democrats” [SEP] Continuing Appropriations Resolution, 2014 // mandatory payments) through such date. The bill would allow amounts made available for the Department of Commerce—National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA)--Procurement, Acquisition and Construction to be apportioned up to the rate for operations necessary to maintain the planned launch schedules for the Joint Polar Satellite System and the Geostationary Operational Environmental Satellite system. Finally, the bill would make appropriations for payment to Bonnie Englebardt Lautenberg, widow of Frank R. Lautenberg, a former Senator from New Jersey. Before passing the bill, the House adopted the "Scalise Amendment." The amendment would prohibit "the funding of any provision of the Patient Protection
Shows a waitress saying, "I lost my job. But I'll sleep better knowing” that the coronavirus relief bill included funding for the Kennedy Center, refugee resettlement, PBS, and congressional salaries: “Thanks, Democrats” [SEP] Restaurant Opportunities Center // (as low as $2.13 per hour), not providing health insurance or paid sick days for a workforce of 200,000 people, the company was also an opponent of paid sick day legislation providing for a low-wage worker to stay at home and recover instead of going to work sick, which led to public exposure to hepatitis A and other medical threats. ROC organizers appeared at Darden's 2012 annual shareholder's meeting to advance their complaints. ROC dropped the lawsuit in mid-2012. In January 2014, in an unrelated lawsuit, 20,000 former and current Darden workers joined a federal lawsuit alleging that the company
Shows a waitress saying, "I lost my job. But I'll sleep better knowing” that the coronavirus relief bill included funding for the Kennedy Center, refugee resettlement, PBS, and congressional salaries: “Thanks, Democrats” [SEP] Marsha Looper // a provision requiring that guest workers have 20% of their wages withheld until they returned to their home countries, was criticized as a possible violation of federal law. After 26 amendments, including removal of the wage withholding provision, the bill passed House committee with support from farming and ranching groups. Looper's guest-worker bill became the center of controversy and widespread attention in April, when Rep. Douglas Bruce made controversial comments concerning guest workers during House debate. Looper had previously received death threats for sponsoring the bill, and received additional threats in the wake of the controversy. The bill ultimately passed
Shows a waitress saying, "I lost my job. But I'll sleep better knowing” that the coronavirus relief bill included funding for the Kennedy Center, refugee resettlement, PBS, and congressional salaries: “Thanks, Democrats” [SEP] James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Act // signed a pledge to filibuster all bills until the Bush tax cuts were renewed and the government was appropriately funded for the next several months. With only 57 votes to end the Senate filibuster and an incoming influx of Republicans in the wake of the 2010 Congressional Elections, the bill's future looked increasingly doubtful towards the end of 2010. On December 16, 2010, comedian Jon Stewart dedicated an entire episode of "The Daily Show" to the political battle over the Zadroga Act. Guests included four 9/11 first responders suffering from severe diseases and injuries related to their work near the
Shows a waitress saying, "I lost my job. But I'll sleep better knowing” that the coronavirus relief bill included funding for the Kennedy Center, refugee resettlement, PBS, and congressional salaries: “Thanks, Democrats” [SEP] The Daily Show // his health care program was "timid." After the United States Senate failed to pass and the media failed to cover the James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Act, which would provide health monitoring and financial aid to sick first responders of the September 11 attacks, Stewart dedicated the entire December 16, 2010, broadcast to the issue. During the next week, a revived version of the bill gained new life, with the potential of being passed before the winter recess. Stewart was praised by both politicians and affected first responders for the bill's passage. According to Syracuse University professor of television,
Shows a waitress saying, "I lost my job. But I'll sleep better knowing” that the coronavirus relief bill included funding for the Kennedy Center, refugee resettlement, PBS, and congressional salaries: “Thanks, Democrats” [SEP] 2014 American immigration crisis // Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs. Craig Fugate, the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency in the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, testified, "We are talking about large numbers of children, without their parents, who have arrived at our border—hungry, thirsty, exhausted, scared and vulnerable". Senator Dianne Feinstein compared the crisis to the American refusal to accept Jewish refugees from Nazi Germany aboard the MS "St. Louis". The President's request for additional funds was met in both houses of Congress by proposals to modify or eliminate the rights granted by the 2008 reauthorization of the Victims of
Shows a waitress saying, "I lost my job. But I'll sleep better knowing” that the coronavirus relief bill included funding for the Kennedy Center, refugee resettlement, PBS, and congressional salaries: “Thanks, Democrats” [SEP] Carolyn Maloney // bill extends the World Trade Center Health Program to 2090, and provides full compensation to survivors and first responders through the September 11 Victim Compensation Fund. The two programs were in the process of shutting down after Congress missed a reauthorization deadline. Maloney had been the lead House sponsor of the original bill and she joined forces with first responders and other members of the New York delegation in a months long battle to extend the program. Following the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, Maloney worked to ensure that the Bush administration maintained its commitment to New York's recovery
Shows a waitress saying, "I lost my job. But I'll sleep better knowing” that the coronavirus relief bill included funding for the Kennedy Center, refugee resettlement, PBS, and congressional salaries: “Thanks, Democrats” [SEP] Anthony Weiner // provide for funds for sick first responders to the 9/11 attacks on the World Trade Center. In a speech on the floor of the House, he accused Republicans of hiding behind procedural questions as an excuse to vote against the bill. In response to pressure from Weiner, YouTube removed some of Anwar al-Awlaki's inflammatory videos from its website in November 2010. Weiner voted against the Tax Relief, Unemployment Insurance Reauthorization, and Job Creation Act of 2010. As a prominent Democratic opponent of the tax cut package passed by Congress, Weiner said Republicans had gotten the better of President Obama in
Shows a waitress saying, "I lost my job. But I'll sleep better knowing” that the coronavirus relief bill included funding for the Kennedy Center, refugee resettlement, PBS, and congressional salaries: “Thanks, Democrats” [SEP] October 2013 mini-continuing resolutions // funding to help even one child with cancer," said "Why would we want to do that?" In response, Democrats criticized Republicans for playing different needy groups off one another by funding bills to support cancer treatment while failing to fund food programs. The Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children Continuing Appropriations Resolution, 2014 () would provide funding for the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants and Children, a federal assistance program of the Food and Nutrition Service (FNS) of the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) for healthcare and nutrition of low-income pregnant women, breastfeeding women,
A video shows two people waving guns at protesters in front of their home. [SEP] Adam Kokesh // property." On July 4, Kokesh posted a YouTube video of himself allegedly loading a shotgun in Freedom Plaza in the District of Columbia in open defiance of DC law. In the 23-second video shot early that morning and titled "Open Carry March on DC a Success," as the Capitol looms in the distance, Kokesh loads the shotgun while addressing the camera. Police indicated they believed he may have used a green screen and on his return to the plaza on July 8 he insisted data from government surveillance cameras in Freedom Plaza would show he was there. "I was here,
A video shows two people waving guns at protesters in front of their home. [SEP] Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri // death of two women as a result of domestic violence. Both McDormand and McDonagh have responded positively to the protests, with McDonagh saying "You couldn't ask for anything more than for an angry film to be adopted by protests," and McDormand saying she is "thrilled that activists all over the world have been inspired by the set decoration of the three billboards in Martin's film." On March 24, 2018, signs inspired by "Three Billboards" appeared at March for Our Lives gun safety rallies across the US and around the world. Wang Qishan, China's vice-president, said that he understood supporters of
A video shows two people waving guns at protesters in front of their home. [SEP] Patriot Prayer // using rubber bullets and flashbangs when protestors refused to move. At one point, the police forces came under attack from rocks and bottles. Police reported that they confiscated weapons including fireworks, long sticks, baseball bats, pepper spray and home-made shields. There were injuries, and arrests were made, but the police characterized the event as a "civil disturbance" and not a "riot". In October 2018, the Portland police announced that it had found members of the organization carrying loaded firearms on the roof of a parking garage overlooking the site of the August protest; the people carrying them had concealed carry
A video shows two people waving guns at protesters in front of their home. [SEP] Shooting of Stephon Clark // grandmother's driveway and shout "Hey, show me your hands. Stop. Stop." The video shows that the officers chased Clark into the backyard and an officer yells, "Show me your hands! Gun!" About three seconds elapse and then the officer yells, "Show me your hands! Gun, gun, gun", before shooting Clark. According to the police, before being shot Clark turned and held an object that he "extended in front of him" while he moved towards the officers. The officers said they believed that Clark was pointing a gun at them. The police stated that the officers feared for their safety, and
A video shows two people waving guns at protesters in front of their home. [SEP] Ferguson unrest // and rubber bullets at lines of protesters and reporters. At least seven protesters were arrested on the evening of August 12 and 13 after police told protesters to "'go home" or face arrest. CNN cameras filmed an officer addressing a group of protesters by saying "Bring it, you fucking animals, bring it." On the night of August 12, a peaceful protester was shot in the head non-fatally by police. The gunshot survivor, Mya Aaten-White, complained that police had failed to interview her in connection with the shooting. Police had attempted to interview Aaten-White alone, but she refused to speak with
A video shows two people waving guns at protesters in front of their home. [SEP] Dana Loesch // speechwriter for President Obama, called the video "revolting and frightening". U.S. Senator Chris Murphy (D, Ct.) said, "I think the NRA is telling people to shoot us. Now might be the right time to cancel your membership." Conservative columnist Anne Applebaum said that it called on Americans "to arm themselves to fight liberals. Violence is coming". An online petition calling for the video to be removed from Facebook said, "The video tries to create an 'us-vs-them' narrative and pit Americans against one another. It paints liberals as liars and as violent, unruly protesters who law-abiding gun owners need protection from."
A video shows two people waving guns at protesters in front of their home. [SEP] Gaza flotilla raid // boat announcing over the public address system, "Stop your resistance ... They are using live ammunition ... Be calm, be very calm." Gunshots are heard. At the end a woman shouts, "We have no guns here, we are civilians taking care of injured people. Don't use violence, we need help." One of the activists shows the camera a waterproofed booklet allegedly taken from the Israeli commandos listing the names, with photos, of several key people among the passengers. Lee says the video was smuggled off the ship in her underwear due to the Israeli confiscation of all photographic and film
A video shows two people waving guns at protesters in front of their home. [SEP] Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri // High School shooting that took place on February 14, 2018, in Parkland, Florida, activist group Avaaz had three vans circle Florida senator Marco Rubio's offices displaying ", ", " On the night of February 15, 2018, the movement #OccupyJustice set up three billboards and a number of banners in Malta, marking the four-month anniversary of the murder of the journalist Daphne Caruana Galizia. The billboards bore the text ", ", and " The authorities removed the billboards the following day, stating that they were illegal. The government was criticized for this move, and a day after their removal, activists laid
A video shows two people waving guns at protesters in front of their home. [SEP] Hijab by country // filmed standing on top of a tall box, unveiled, waving her white scarf at people passing by her. The video then shows a man in a police uniform tackling the woman to the ground. Shortly after the video went viral on Twitter, the Ministry of Interior (Iran) scolded police for using physical force against the woman protesting. Salman Samani, a spokesman for Ministry of Interior (Iran) released a statement on 25 February 2018 saying "No one has a license to act against the law even in the role of an officer dealing with crimes." On 8 March 2018, a video
A video shows two people waving guns at protesters in front of their home. [SEP] Death of Abdulredha Buhmaid // birdshot to disperse protesters, inflicting more injuries among them. A cameraman working for the Associated Press said he saw "army units shooting anti-aircraft weapons, fitted on top of armored personnel carriers, above the protesters in apparent warning shots and attempts to drive them back from security cordons". Bahraini photojournalist Mazen Mahdi said that the army shot "live fire from machine guns" and that paramedics were blocked from helping the wounded. "The first was a warning shot in the air. But after that, they just opened fire at the people ... They shot at the ambulances when they came in", he
Canadians worried by plan to let Americans import drugs. [SEP] American entry into Canada by land // trafficking of controlled substances and narcotics. A number of travelers, including Americans, have been arrested for attempting to smuggle khat, an herbal stimulant from East Africa, into Canada. Smugglers risk substantial fines, a permanent bar from Canada, and imprisonment. It is recommended that prescription medicines be in their original prescription container. Suspicious looking or unidentifiable pills found during a search can be tested for narcotics. Entry into Canada can be delayed until the tests have completed. Moreover, their discovery can lead to being denied entry even if the tests passed. A person or organization may disagree with the CBSA about
Canadians worried by plan to let Americans import drugs. [SEP] Online pharmacy // from online pharmacies in Canada." According to a Wall Street Journal/Harris Online poll in 2006, 80 percent of Americans favor importing drugs from Canada and other countries. Factors independently associated with importation by U.S. residents are age greater than 45 years, south or west region of residence, Hispanic ethnicity, college education, poor or near poor poverty status, lack of U.S. citizenship, travel to developing countries, lack of health insurance, high family out-of-pocket medical costs, trouble finding a healthcare provider, fair or poor self-reported health status, filling a prescription on the Internet, and using online chat groups to learn about health.
Canadians worried by plan to let Americans import drugs. [SEP] Canada–United States relations // produced a compromise settlement that permanently ended the problems. In 2003 the American government became concerned when members of the Canadian government announced plans to decriminalize marijuana. David Murray, an assistant to U.S. Drug Czar John P. Walters, said in a CBC interview that, "We would have to respond. We would be forced to respond." However the election of the Conservative Party in early 2006 halted the liberalization of marijuana laws for the foreseeable future. A 2007 joint report by American and Canadian officials on cross-border drug smuggling indicated that, despite their best efforts, "drug trafficking still occurs in significant
Canadians worried by plan to let Americans import drugs. [SEP] Canada–United States trade relations // of US$10.5 billion cost to businesses in delays and uncertain travel time have affected trade. One ongoing and complex trade issue involves the importation of cheaper prescription drugs from Canada to the United States. Due to the Canadian government's price controls as part of their Single-payer medical system, prices for prescription drugs can be a fraction of the price paid by consumers in the unregulated U.S. market. While laws in the United States have been passed at the national level against such sales, specific state and local governments have passed their own legislation to allow the trade to continue. American
Canadians worried by plan to let Americans import drugs. [SEP] Consumer import of prescription drugs // in another. People in the United States have easy access to Canada. The quality of medicine in Canada is comparable to that of the United States. Drug prices are often much lower in Canada than in the United States. To save money, some consumers in the United States seek to purchase drugs in Canada. Different people have published different perspectives on this practice. One major on-line supplier, CanadaDrugs.com, has announced it will close on July 13, 2018 as part of an agreement with the U.S. Department of Justice. Consumers may feel that prescription drugs which are available to multiple countries
Canadians worried by plan to let Americans import drugs. [SEP] Crime in Canada // penalties tended to favor drug smuggling. In particular, Canada did not criminalize the possession of precursor chemicals for drugs like methamphetamine. After the 1970s, synthetic drugs overtook liquor as the main item smuggled into the US and by the 1990s Canada supplied large amounts of high-grade marijuana, ecstasy and methamphetamine. Quebec mobsters, relocated to Florida, maintained two large pill making operations in Quebec from 1981 to 1986, shipping 13.5 million methaqualone tablets to the US. By the early 2000s, Canada was a net exporter of marijuana to US, although comprised only one-fifth the amount coming from Mexico. A pound valued
Canadians worried by plan to let Americans import drugs. [SEP] Reg Alcock // Canada's regulatory system in March 2005. He argued that his reforms would reduce delays for patent drug approval and avoid the duplication of existing foreign research without compromising safety standards. Critics of the plan suggested that it could jeopardize Canadian sovereignty and lead to the adoption of American regulatory standards. In February 2004, the "National Post" identified Alcock as a leading cabinet supporter of private-public partnerships. In early 2005, Alcock publicly criticized his government's position against the legalization of marijuana, saying, "If we actually wanted to break the back of organized crime, we would be better off to control it.
Canadians worried by plan to let Americans import drugs. [SEP] Health care reforms proposed during the Obama administration // room and coming to an agreement, with the government stepping in to set prices if they fail. Congressional proponents argue that drugs manufactured overseas by U.S. companies could be imported and purchased more cheaply in the U.S. Drug manufacturers argue that certain foreign countries have price controls, which they recoup by charging higher prices in the U.S. Whitehouse spokesman Robert Gibbs said President Obama is supportive of importing drugs, provided safety concerns related to the drugs can be addressed. This is because drugs manufactured outside the country may be held to different standards. According to Bloomberg News, drugmakers agreed in
Canadians worried by plan to let Americans import drugs. [SEP] Pharmacy // to U.S. consumers, who pay one of the world's highest drug prices. In recent years, many consumers in the US and in other countries with high drug costs, have turned to licensed Internet pharmacies in India, Israel and the UK, which often have even lower prices than in Canada. In the United States, there has been a push to legalize importation of medications from Canada and other countries, in order to reduce consumer costs. While in most cases importation of prescription medications violates Food and Drug Administration (FDA) regulations and federal laws, enforcement is generally targeted at international drug suppliers,
Canadians worried by plan to let Americans import drugs. [SEP] Visa policy of Canada // passport controls, a potential rise in fake asylum claims, the increase of human and illegal drug trafficking, and the involvement of organized crime of some travelers. In addition, the U.S. can potentially tighten border controls which may slow the cross-border trades between the two countries and harm Canada's economy. Opposition parties criticized that the move was "a completely political quid pro quo" in exchange for the Mexican government to lift the ban on Canadian beef since 2003. On 31 October 2016, the Canadian government announced that Canada intends to lift visa requirement for Romanian and Bulgarian citizens on 1 December
Breast-Feeding Linked to Reduced Risk of Preemie Eye Problem [SEP] Breast milk // problems, decreased risk of obesity later in life, and a decreased risk of developing psychological disorders, including in adopted children. In addition, feeding an infant breast milk is associated with lower insulin levels and higher leptin levels compared feeding an infant via powdered-formula. Breastfeeding also provides health benefits for the mother. It assists the uterus in returning to its pre-pregnancy size and reduces post-partum bleeding, as well as assisting the mother in returning to her pre-pregnancy weight. Breastfeeding also reduces the risk of breast cancer later in life. Lactation protects both mother and infant from both types of diabetes. Lactation
Breast-Feeding Linked to Reduced Risk of Preemie Eye Problem [SEP] Breastfeeding // of babies is associated with a lower chance of developing diabetes mellitus type 1. Breastfed babies also appear to have a lower likelihood of developing diabetes mellitus type 2 later in life. Breastfeeding is also associated with a lower risk of type 2 diabetes among mothers who practice it. The majority of mothers intend to breastfeed at birth. Many factors can disrupt this intent. Research done in the US shows that information about breastfeeding is rarely provided by a women's obstetricians during their prenatal visits and some health professionals incorrectly believe that commercially prepared formula is nutritionally equivalent to breast
Breast-Feeding Linked to Reduced Risk of Preemie Eye Problem [SEP] Breastfeeding // have fewer problems with snoring and sleep apnea in later life. A 2016 review found that breastfeeding protected against malocclusions. Breastfeeding duration has been correlated with child maltreatment outcomes, including neglect and sexual abuse. It is unclear whether breastfeeding improves intelligence later in life. Several studies found no relationship after controlling for confounding factors like maternal intelligence (smarter mothers were more likely to breastfeed their babies). However, other studies concluded that breastfeeding was associated with increased cognitive development in childhood, although the cause may be increased mother–child interaction rather than nutrition. Hormones released during breastfeeding help to strengthen the maternal
Breast-Feeding Linked to Reduced Risk of Preemie Eye Problem [SEP] Nutriepigenomics // risk of schizophrenia. Several studies suggest that breast-feeding promotes long-term neurodevelopment by providing the nutrients necessary for proper brain development. A study in mice showed that choline-deficient diets during the late gestation period impaired fetal brain development, including decreased cell proliferation and reduced visual-spatial and auditory memory. These cognitive changes appeared to be due to altered histone and DNA methylation patterns in the fetal hippocampus, thus providing a link between maternal nutrition, epigenetics, and early brain development. It has been postulated that breast-feeding may also protect against type-1 diabetes, with research showing that formula-fed infants are at an increased risk
Breast-Feeding Linked to Reduced Risk of Preemie Eye Problem [SEP] Breastfeeding // by lower cholesterol and C-reactive protein levels in breastfed adult women. Breastfed infants have somewhat lower blood pressure later in life, but it is unclear how much practical benefit this provides. A 1998 study suggested that breastfed babies have a better chance of good dental health than formula-fed infants because of the developmental effects of breastfeeding on the oral cavity and airway. It was thought that with fewer malocclusions, breastfed children may have a reduced need for orthodontic intervention. The report suggested that children with a well rounded, "U-shaped" dental arch, which is found more commonly in breastfed children, may
Breast-Feeding Linked to Reduced Risk of Preemie Eye Problem [SEP] Breastfeeding // number of benefits to both mother and baby, which infant formula lacks. Deaths of an estimated 820,000 children under the age of five could be prevented globally every year with increased breastfeeding. Breastfeeding decreases the risk of respiratory tract infections and diarrhea, both in developing and developed countries. Other benefits include lower risks of asthma, food allergies, type 1 diabetes, and leukemia. Breastfeeding may also improve cognitive development and decrease the risk of obesity in adulthood. Mothers may feel pressure to breastfeed, but in the developed world children generally grow up normally when bottle fed. Benefits for the mother include
Breast-Feeding Linked to Reduced Risk of Preemie Eye Problem [SEP] Breast milk // for the first six months of life, with solids gradually being introduced around this age when signs of readiness are shown. Supplemented breastfeeding is recommended until at least age two and then for as long as the mother and child wish. Breastfeeding offers health benefits to mother and child even after infancy. These benefits include a 73% decreased risk of sudden infant death syndrome, increased intelligence, decreased likelihood of contracting middle ear infections, cold and flu resistance, a tiny decrease in the risk of childhood leukemia, lower risk of childhood onset diabetes, decreased risk of asthma and eczema, decreased dental
Breast-Feeding Linked to Reduced Risk of Preemie Eye Problem [SEP] Breast milk // may protect the infant from specifically developing Type 2 diabetes because studies have shown that bioactive ingredients in human breast milk could prevent excess weight gain during childhood via contributing to a feeling of energy and satiety. A lower risk of child-onset diabetes may more applicable to infants who were born from diabetic mothers. The reason is because while breastfeeding for at least the first 6 months of life minimizes the risk of Type 1 diabetes from occurring in the infant, inadequate breastfeeding in an infant prenatally exposed to diabetes was associated with a higher risk of the child developing
Breast-Feeding Linked to Reduced Risk of Preemie Eye Problem [SEP] Infant nutrition // better iron absorption and digestion. Allowing the baby to absorb more iron leads to a better gut health of the infant. Breastfed infants tend to have lower incidences of obesity later in life. Breast milk leads to a slower weight gain in early infancy, and is protective against obesity and development of type 2 diabetes. Diabetes is a serious health problem where the body does not use insulin correctly. This diagnosis can cause many complications of the skin, eyes, feet, nervous system, heart, and kidneys. Therefore, it is important to prevent diabetes when possible, because it goes hand-in-hand with obesity.
Breast-Feeding Linked to Reduced Risk of Preemie Eye Problem [SEP] Breastfeeding // mildly increased risk of developing acute and chronic diseases, including lower respiratory infection, ear infections, bacteremia, bacterial meningitis, botulism, urinary tract infection and necrotizing enterocolitis. Breastfeeding may protect against sudden infant death syndrome, insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus, Crohn's disease, ulcerative colitis, lymphoma, allergic diseases, digestive diseases, obesity, develop diabetes, or childhood leukemia later in life. and may enhance cognitive development. The average breastfed baby doubles its birth weight in 5–6 months. By one year, a typical breastfed baby weighs about 2-1/2 times its birth weight. At one year, breastfed babies tend to be leaner than formula-fed babies, which improves long-run health.
Robotic surgeries costlier but safer: study [SEP] Robot-assisted surgery // smoother, feedback-controlled motions than could be achieved by a human hand. The main object of such smart instruments is to reduce or eliminate the tissue trauma traditionally associated with open surgery without requiring more than a few minutes' training on the part of surgeons. This approach seeks to improve open surgeries, particularly cardio-thoracic, that have so far not benefited from minimally-invasive techniques. Robotic surgery has been criticized for its expense, by one estimate costing $1,500 to $2000 more per patient. Major advances aided by surgical robots have been remote surgery, minimally invasive surgery and unmanned surgery. Due to robotic use,
Robotic surgeries costlier but safer: study [SEP] Robot-assisted surgery // the hefty cost of the robotic system it is not clear that it is cost-effective for hospitals and physicians despite any benefits to patients since there is no additional reimbursement paid by the government or insurance companies when the system is used. Robot-assisted pancreatectomies have been found to be associated with "longer operating time, lower estimated blood loss, a higher spleen-preservation rate, and shorter hospital stay[s]" than laparoscopic pancreatectomies; there was "no significant difference in transfusion, conversion to open surgery, overall complications, severe complications, pancreatic fistula, severe pancreatic fistula, ICU stay, total cost, and 30-day mortality between the two groups."
Robotic surgeries costlier but safer: study [SEP] Robot-assisted surgery // chose the procedure based on expectations of decreased morbidity, improved outcomes, reduced blood loss and less pain. Higher expectations may explain higher rates of dissatisfaction and regret. Compared with other minimally invasive surgery approaches, robot-assisted surgery gives the surgeon better control over the surgical instruments and a better view of the surgical site. In addition, surgeons no longer have to stand throughout the surgery and do not tire as quickly. Naturally occurring hand tremors are filtered out by the robot's computer software. Finally, the surgical robot can continuously be used by rotating surgery teams. Critics of the system, including the
Robotic surgeries costlier but safer: study [SEP] Robot-assisted surgery // hernia repair, kasai portoenterostomy, congenital diaphragmatic hernia repair, and others. Robotic devices started to be used in minimally invasive spine surgery starting in the mid-2000s. As of 2014, there were too few randomized clinical trials to allow judgements as to whether robotic spine surgery is more or less safe than other approaches. Transplant surgery (organ transplantation) has been considered as highly technically demanding and virtually unobtainable by means of conventional laparoscopy. For many years, transplant patients were unable to benefit from the advantages of minimally invasive surgery. The development of robotic technology and its associated high resolution capabilities, three dimensional
Robotic surgeries costlier but safer: study [SEP] Robot-assisted surgery // For surgical removal of the uterus and cervix for early cervical cancer robotic and laparoscopic surgery resulted in similar outcomes with respect to the cancer. As of 2004, three types of heart surgery are being performed on a routine basis using robotic surgery systems. These three surgery types were: Many studies have been undertaken in order to examine the role of robotic procedures in the field of colorectal surgery. Results to date indicate that robotic-assisted colorectal procedures outcomes are "no worse" than the results in the now "traditional" laparoscopic colorectal operations. Robotic-assisted colorectal surgery appears to be safe as well.
Robotic surgeries costlier but safer: study [SEP] Robot-assisted surgery // the surgery is done with precision, miniaturization, smaller incisions; decreased blood loss, less pain, and quicker healing time. Articulation beyond normal manipulation and three-dimensional magnification helps resulting in improved ergonomics. Due to these techniques there is a reduced duration of hospital stays, blood loss, transfusions, and use of pain medication. The existing open surgery technique has many flaws like limited access to surgical area, long recovery time, long hours of operation, blood loss, surgical scars and marks. The robot normally costs $1,390,000 and while its disposable supply cost is normally $1,500 per procedure, the cost of the procedure is higher.
Robotic surgeries costlier but safer: study [SEP] Remote surgery // of deploying remote surgery units is likely to increase rapidly. The possibility of being able to project the knowledge and the physical skill of a surgeon over long distances has many attractions. There is considerable research underway in the subject. The armed forces have an obvious interest since the combination of telepresence, teleoperation, and telerobotics can potentially save the lives of battle casualties by providing them with prompt attention in mobile operating theatres. Another potential advantage of having robots perform surgeries is accuracy. A study conducted at Guy’s Hospital in London, England compared the success of kidney surgeries in 304
Robotic surgeries costlier but safer: study [SEP] Remote surgery // that, telesurgery is something that is possible and generally safe for large areas within the United States. As the techniques of expert surgeons are studied and stored in special computer systems, robots might one day be able to perform surgeries with little or no human input. Carlo Pappone, an Italian surgeon, has developed a software program that uses data collected from several surgeons and thousands of operations to perform the surgery without human intervention. This could one day make expensive, complicated surgeries much more widely available, even to patients in regions which have traditionally lacked proper medical facilities. The ability
Robotic surgeries costlier but safer: study [SEP] Hysterectomy // required to determine the benefits and risks involved, compared to conventional laparoscopic surgery. A 2014 Cochrane review found that robotic assisted surgery may have a similar complication rate when compared to conventional laparoscopic surgery. In addition, there is evidence to suggest that although the surgery make take longer, robotic assisted surgery may result in shorter hospital stays. More research is necessary to determine if robotic assisted hysterectomies are beneficial for people with cancer. Previously reported marginal advantages of robotic assisted surgery could not be confirmed; only differences in hospital stay and cost remain statistically significant. In Canada, the "number" of
Robotic surgeries costlier but safer: study [SEP] Robot-assisted surgery // 2000, the first robot-assisted laparoscopic radical prostatectomy was performed. Breast Surgery Robotic breast surgery involves using the robot to assist in performing nipple-sparing mastectomy and breast reconstruction. In 2015, a group of surgeons led by Dr. Antonio Toesca, in Milan, Italy demonstrated the feasibility and safety of robotic nipple-sparing mastectomy and robotic breast reconstruction. The Italian surgeons published their results in their first 29 consecutive patients. In this report, all patients had robotic mastectomy and reconstruction done through a 3 cm extra-mammary incision, hidden by the arm. Thereafter, a surgeon, Dr. Benjamin Sarfati, in Paris began performing robotic mastectomy and
On Syria, "a lot of the allies signed on. At the last minute, Obama backed off. [SEP] American-led intervention in the Syrian Civil War // a move sought by Russia. In his address to the nation on 10 September 2014, U.S. President Obama announced his intention to bomb ISIL targets in Syria and called on Congress to authorize a program to train and arm rebels who were fighting ISIL and the Syrian forces of Bashar al-Assad. For the first time, he authorized direct attacks against the militant group in Syria. In his address, he said the United States were going on offensive, launching "a steady, relentless effort to take out" the group "wherever they exist." Obama also announced creating of a broader coalition against ISIL.
On Syria, "a lot of the allies signed on. At the last minute, Obama backed off. [SEP] Nikki Haley // former president Barack Obama's initial stance on Assad. On April 5, speaking to the U.N. Security Council a day after the Khan Shaykhun chemical attack, Haley said Russia, Assad, and Iran "have no interest in peace" and attacks similar to this would continue occurring should nothing be done in response. A day later, the U.S. launched 59 Tomahawk cruise missiles toward the Shayrat Air Base in Syria. Haley called the strike a "very measured step" and warned that the U.S. was prepared "to do more" despite wishing it would not be required. On April 12, after Russia blocked a draft
On Syria, "a lot of the allies signed on. At the last minute, Obama backed off. [SEP] Presidency of Barack Obama // soldiers, while continuing to oppose Assad's regime. The Obama administration also cooperated with Syrian Kurds in opposing the ISIL, straining relations with Turkey, which accused the Syrian Kurds of working with the Kurdish terrorist groups inside Turkey. Russia launched its own military intervention to aid Assad's regime, creating a complicated multi-party proxy war, though the United States and Russia sometimes cooperated to fight ISIL. In November 2015, Obama announced a plan to resettle at least 10,000 Syrian refugees in the United States. Obama's "light-footprint" approach to the Syrian conflict was criticized by many as the Syrian Civil War became a
On Syria, "a lot of the allies signed on. At the last minute, Obama backed off. [SEP] Barack Obama // programs run by the CIA and the Pentagon to train anti-Assad rebels. The Pentagon-run program was later found to have failed and was formally abandoned in October 2015. In the wake of a chemical weapons attack in Syria, formally blamed by the Obama administration on the Assad government, Obama chose not to enforce the "red line" he had pledged and, rather than authorize the promised military action against Assad, went along with the Russia-brokered deal that led to Assad giving up chemical weapons; however attacks with chlorine gas continued. In 2014, Obama authorized an air campaign aimed primarily at ISIL,
On Syria, "a lot of the allies signed on. At the last minute, Obama backed off. [SEP] Samantha Power // and Assad make war. Instead of helping get life-saving aid to civilians, Russia and Assad are bombing the humanitarian convoys, hospitals and first responders who are trying desperately to keep people alive," Power said. A Sept. 9 ceasefire deal between U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry and Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov aimed at putting Syria's peace process back on track effectively collapsed on Monday when an aid convoy was bombed. Power, in her last major speech in the role, told the international community it must do everything it can to stop what she described as a Russian assault on
On Syria, "a lot of the allies signed on. At the last minute, Obama backed off. [SEP] American-led intervention in the Syrian Civil War // Commenting on Obama's address, Russian Foreign Ministry spokesman opposed the U.S. intervention against ISIL in Syria "without the consent of the legitimate government" and said that "this step, in the absence of a UN Security Council decision, would be an act of aggression, a gross violation of international law". Ali Haidar, Syrian minister of national reconciliation, said that "any action of any kind without the consent of the Syrian government would be an attack on Syria". On 17 September, the U.S. House of Representatives approved Obama's plan to train and arm the Syrian rebels in their fight against ISIL. In
On Syria, "a lot of the allies signed on. At the last minute, Obama backed off. [SEP] Foreign involvement in the Syrian Civil War // Ahrar ash-Sham. In autumn 2015, the US ruled out military cooperation with Russia in Syria. However, on 20 October 2015, the US and Russia signed a secret technical memorandum of understanding to avoid air incidents over Syria. On 22 November 2015, Syria′s president Bashar Assad said that within two months of its air strikes Russia had achieved more than the U.S.-led coalition in its fight against Islamic State for a year. Two days later, the US president Barack Obama, speaking after a meeting with his French counterpart François Hollande, said: "Russia right now is a coalition of two, Iran and
On Syria, "a lot of the allies signed on. At the last minute, Obama backed off. [SEP] Foreign policy of the Barack Obama administration // demanded the resignation of Syria's president Bashar al-Assad, said that the use of chemical weapons by the Assad government would be crossing a red line and would entail U.S. military action. After reports on 21 August 2013 about the usage of chemical weapons in Syria, the Obama administration formally blamed the incident on the Syrian government and sought Congressional approval for military action in Syria. Besides, Obama sought support from Britain and France for an attack in Syria. The Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel approved plans for a barrage of Tomahawk cruise missile strikes to have those called off by Obama
On Syria, "a lot of the allies signed on. At the last minute, Obama backed off. [SEP] United States involvement in regime change // aside" and imposed an oil embargo against the Syrian government to bring it to its knees. Starting in 2013, the U.S. also provided training, weapons and cash to Syrian vetted "moderate" rebels, and in 2014, the Supreme Military Council. In March 2017 Ambassador Nikki Haley told a group of reporters that the US's priority in Syria was no longer on "getting Assad out." Earlier that day at a news conference in Ankara, Secretary of State Rex Tillerson also said that the "longer term status of President Assad will be decided by the Syrian people." While the US Defense Department's program
On Syria, "a lot of the allies signed on. At the last minute, Obama backed off. [SEP] Syria–United States relations // all". Turkey unveiled a new proposal for safe zones to Sunni Arab states meeting February 13 in Bahrain. On 29 March 2017, during the Presidency of Donald Trump the United States Secretary of State Rex Tillerson expressed that the longer term status of president Bashar al-Assad is to be "decided by the Syrian people". This appears as a policy shift, since under president Barack Obama’s administration, the US made the departure of Assad a key policy aim. On March 30, 2017, United States Ambassador to the United Nations Nikki Haley reaffirmed that the priority of the United States policy concerning
A photograph shows the Arch of Baal erected on the National Mall in Washington, D.C. [SEP] Gateway Arch National Park // the south leg. On October 28, 1965, it was completed, costing approximately $15 million to build. The adjacent park was designed by landscape architect Dan Kiley. Along with all other historical areas of the National Park Service, the memorial was listed on the National Register of Historic Places on October 15, 1966. Vice President Hubert Humphrey and Secretary of the Interior Stewart Udall dedicated the Arch on May 25, 1968. In 1984, Congress authorized the enlargement of the Memorial to include up to on the east bank of the Mississippi River in East St. Louis, Illinois. Funds were authorized to
A photograph shows the Arch of Baal erected on the National Mall in Washington, D.C. [SEP] National Memorial Arch // simplified version of the Triumphal Arch of Titus in Rome (marked the capture of Jerusalem by Emperor Titus in A.D. 70). Paul Philippe Cret was a professor at the University of Pennsylvania and was originally from France, studying at the Ecole des Beaux Arts. In classical architecture, the triumphal arch was erected to honor generals and emperors. The United States National Memorial Arch does so by offering a national tribute to George Washington and his army. The Arch stands at 60 feet tall. In 1907, the Valley Forge Park Commission planned the construction of two arches, the Washington Arch at
A photograph shows the Arch of Baal erected on the National Mall in Washington, D.C. [SEP] House of the Temple // stands in Washington, D.C. Grand Master J. Claude Keiper, of the Grand Lodge of the District of Columbia, laid the cornerstone in the northeast corner on October 18, 1911. The temple was designed by architect John Russell Pope, who modeled it after the tomb of Mausolus at Halicarnassus, one of the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World. The building was dedicated four years later on October 18, 1915. The building's design was widely praised by contemporary architects, and it won Pope the Gold Medal of the Architectural League of New York in 1917. In his 1920 book "L'Architecture aux Etatis-Unis",
A photograph shows the Arch of Baal erected on the National Mall in Washington, D.C. [SEP] National World War II Memorial // on the National Mall since the Lincoln Memorial opened in 1922. The location, between the Washington Monument and the Lincoln Memorial, represents the first addition in more than 70 years to the grand corridor of open space that stretches from the Capitol west to the Potomac River. A nationwide design competition drew 400 submissions from architects from around the country. Friedrich St. Florian's initial design was selected in 1997. St. Florian's design evokes a classical monument. Under each of the two memorial arches, the Pacific and Atlantic baldacchinos, four eagles carry an oak laurel wreath. Each of the 56 pillars
A photograph shows the Arch of Baal erected on the National Mall in Washington, D.C. [SEP] George Washington Masonic National Memorial // unwanted attention from potential terrorists. In April 2005, Syed Haris Ahmed, a naturalized American citizen and student at the Georgia Institute of Technology, took videos of the George Washington Masonic National Memorial as well as the U.S. Capitol, the Pentagon, the headquarters of the World Bank, and other buildings and infrastructure in the D.C. area. American law enforcement authorities later learned that Ahmed had shared the video with Younes Tsouli and Aabid Hussein Khan (men later convicted of terrorism-related crimes in the United Kingdom). Ahmed was arrested in March 2006, and convicted in 2009. A scene from the 2007 mystery-adventure
A photograph shows the Arch of Baal erected on the National Mall in Washington, D.C. [SEP] Wilson's Arch (Jerusalem) // Agency (ISA/Shin Bet). Worshippers were allowed into the main plaza during the hours prior to the Pope's scheduled arrival, but moved into the enclosed Wilson's Arch prayer before his actual arrival. Video and audio streaming of some special events are available online from the "Wilson's Arch camera" (webcam). It does not operate on Shabbat, the Jewish Sabbath, or on those Jewish holy days when photography is prohibited by Jewish religious law. Wilson's Arch (Jerusalem) Wilson's Arch is the modern name for the ancient stone arch whose top is still visible today, where it is supported against the Northeast corner of
A photograph shows the Arch of Baal erected on the National Mall in Washington, D.C. [SEP] National Mall // Purple Tunnel of Doom). The Joint Congressional Committee on Inaugural Ceremonies subsequently announced that ticket holders that were not admitted would receive copies of the swearing-in invitation and program, photos of Obama and Vice President Joe Biden, and a color print of the ceremony. The National Mall has long served as a spot for jogging, picnics, and light recreation for the Washington population. The Smithsonian Carousel, located on the Mall in front of the Arts and Industry Building, is a popular attraction that operates seasonally. The carousel was built by the Allan Herschell Company and arrived at Gwynn Oak Park
A photograph shows the Arch of Baal erected on the National Mall in Washington, D.C. [SEP] Temple of Bel // vicinity" reported by the United Nations Institute for Training and Research (UNITAR). The BBC issued a video report showing the satellite images and the destruction described by Einar Bjorgo, manager of UN Satellite Imaging (UNOSAT UNITAR). The main entrance arch survived the destruction of the temple. The Institute for Digital Archaeology proposed that replicas of this arch be installed in Trafalgar Square, London and Times Square, New York City. It was later decided that instead of the temple's main entrance, the replica would be of part of the Monumental Arch. Following the recapture of Palmyra by the Syrian Army in
A photograph shows the Arch of Baal erected on the National Mall in Washington, D.C. [SEP] Washington Square Arch // Calder) with flanking Justice (right) and Wisdom (left) figures. In the latter sculpture, a hand holds a book bearing the Latin phrase "Exitus Acta Probat" ("the end justifies the deed"). These sculptures are commonly referred to as "Washington at War" and "Washington at Peace", respectively. These figures and most of the rest of the carving on the arch was performed by the Piccirilli Brothers. In 1889, a large plaster and wood memorial arch was erected over Fifth Avenue just north of Washington Square Park by local businessman and philanthropist William Rhinelander Stewart (1852-1929). Stewart lived at 17 Washington Square North
A photograph shows the Arch of Baal erected on the National Mall in Washington, D.C. [SEP] World War II Memorial Prayer Act of 2013 // Americans who served in the armed forces and as civilians during World War II. Consisting of 56 pillars and a pair of small triumphal arches surrounding a plaza and fountain, it is located on the National Mall in Washington, D.C., on the former site of the Rainbow Pool at the eastern end of the Reflecting Pool, between the Lincoln Memorial and the Washington Monument. The act reads as follows: SEC. 2. PLACEMENT OF PLAQUE OR INSCRIPTION AT WORLD WAR II MEMORIAL The Secretary of the Interior-- (1) shall install in the area of the World War II Memorial in the
There is no good data showing secondhand smoke kills people. [SEP] Center for Indoor Air Research // at work and at home. The study concluded that homes were a greater source of exposure to second-hand smoke than workplaces, which led the tobacco industry to use its conclusions to argue that workplace smoking restrictions were unnecessary. This study has been criticized for suffering from "serious biases" that led to low values of exposure being reported. In 1995, a CIAR-funded study on secondhand smoke exposure by Peter Lee was published. The tobacco industry hoped that the study would undermine the validity of a 1981 study by Takeshi Hirayama, which reported a positive association between secondhand smoke and lung cancer
There is no good data showing secondhand smoke kills people. [SEP] Center for Indoor Air Research // the center was published in the "BMJ". Authored by James Enstrom and Geoffrey Kabat, the study found little association between secondhand smoke and coronary heart disease or lung cancer. This study has been criticized for failing to distinguish between those who were exposed to second-hand smoke and those who were not, because, according to the American Cancer Society, the study's participants were enrolled in 1959, "when exposure to secondhand smoke was so pervasive that virtually everyone was exposed to ETS, whether or not they were married to a smoker." In the 1990s, the CIAR's executive director met with head investigators
There is no good data showing secondhand smoke kills people. [SEP] Takeshi Hirayama // Hirayama published a study of 265,000 people which found an association between exposure to secondhand smoke and an increased risk of lung cancer. This study has been described as "one of the most frequently cited studies in regulatory proceedings, risk assessments, and the media" with regard to secondhand smoke. It has also been described as the first study linking secondhand smoke to lung cancer in nonsmokers, although two other studies were published around the same time with similar findings. In response to the study, the tobacco industry decided to produce a study of their own, dubbed the "Japanese spousal study",
There is no good data showing secondhand smoke kills people. [SEP] Cigarette // by 25–30% and their lung cancer risk by 20–30%. Second-hand smoke has been estimated to cause 38,000 deaths per year, of which 3,400 are deaths from lung cancer in nonsmokers. Sudden infant death syndrome, ear infections, respiratory infections, and asthma attacks can occur in children who are exposed to second-hand smoke. Scientific evidence shows that no level of exposure to second-hand smoke is safe. Smoking cessation (quitting smoking) is the process of discontinuing the practice of inhaling a smoked substance. Smoking cessation can be achieved with or without assistance from healthcare professionals or the use of medications. Methods that have
There is no good data showing secondhand smoke kills people. [SEP] Passive smoking // 1997 meta-analysis found that second-hand smoke exposure increased the risk of heart disease by a quarter, and two 1999 meta-analyses reached similar conclusions. Evidence shows that inhaled sidestream smoke, the main component of second-hand smoke, is about four times more toxic than mainstream smoke. This fact has been known to the tobacco industry since the 1980s, though it kept its findings secret. Some scientists believe that the risk of passive smoking, in particular the risk of developing coronary heart diseases, may have been substantially underestimated. In 1997, a meta-analysis on the relationship between secondhand smoke exposure and lung cancer concluded
There is no good data showing secondhand smoke kills people. [SEP] Michael Siegel // to secondhand smoke increased the risk of heart attacks or presented any other significant cardiovascular risk to nonsmokers. He also published a study in 2013 that found that in the United States, "states with higher rates of gun ownership had disproportionately large numbers of deaths from firearm-related homicides." He published a similar study the following year, which concluded that "state-level gun ownership...is significantly associated with firearm and total homicides but not with non-firearm homicides." In 2016, he and Emily Rothman published another study that found a "substantial" association between gun ownership rates and the rate at which women died from
There is no good data showing secondhand smoke kills people. [SEP] Smoking in China // Control Report) detailing alarming levels of secondhand smoke exposure (affecting over 540 million Chinese citizens), recommendations for legislation to reduce harm from secondhand smoke, and the feasibility of implementing public smoking bans based upon polling data. Notably, the report agreed with international scientific consensus about secondhand smoke, citing numerous findings from public health authorities in other countries. to assert the conclusion that "there is no safe level of exposure to second-hand smoke", that ventilation equipment is ineffective in reducing the harm from exposure to second-hand smoke, and that the most effective protective public health measure against smoking is a legislative
There is no good data showing secondhand smoke kills people. [SEP] Third-hand smoke // second-hand smoke. Third-hand smoke-contaminated surfaces like carpet, walls, and car interiors are also especially hard to clean whereas second-hand smoke can be removed with ventilation. Smoking rates in the United States have fallen considerably from a high of 42.4% in 1965 to around 17.8% in 2016. But the downward trend is slowing and it is estimated that 23% to 42% of adults in America with low education or living in poverty still smoke. This exposes millions of nonsmokers, many of which are children. Awareness campaigns for THS are steadily growing in number and primarily focus on the health risks for
There is no good data showing secondhand smoke kills people. [SEP] Tobacco // Inhaling secondhand tobacco smoke can cause lung cancer in nonsmoking adults. In the United States, about 3,000 adults die each year due to lung cancer from secondhand smoke exposure. Heart disease caused by secondhand smoke kills around 46,000 nonsmokers every year. The addictive alkaloid nicotine is a stimulant, and popularly known as the most characteristic constituent of tobacco. Nicotine is known to produce conditioned place preference, a sign of enforcement value. Nicotine scores almost as highly as opioids on drug effect questionnaire liking scales, which are a rough indicator of addictive potential. Users may develop tolerance and dependence. Thousands of
There is no good data showing secondhand smoke kills people. [SEP] Comprehensive Smoking Education Act // disease: 126,000 deaths, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease: 92,900 deaths, stroke: 15,900 deaths and other diagnoses: 44,000 deaths Second-hand smoke is also another major problem from cigarettes, and it has the same effects on nonsmokers as it does to smokers. There are two types of second-hand smoke, with Type 1 being sidestream smoke and Type 2 being mainstream smoke. Sidestream smoke is the smoke that comes from the lighted cigarette, while mainstream smoke is the smoke that is exhaled by smokers. Sidestream is the more deadly of the two because it has more carcinogens and contains smaller particles that can easily
Testosterone gel linked to heart problems. [SEP] Testosterone (medication) // safety of testosterone have been established for low testosterone levels due to aging. The FDA has required that testosterone pharmaceutical labels include warning information about the possibility of an increased risk of heart attacks and stroke. They have also required the label include concerns about abuse and dependence. Adverse effects of testosterone supplementation may include increased cardiovascular events (including strokes and heart attacks) and deaths based on three peer-reviewed studies involving men taking testosterone replacement. In addition, an increase of 30% in deaths and heart attacks in older men has been reported. Due to an increased incidence of adverse cardiovascular
Testosterone gel linked to heart problems. [SEP] Testosterone and the cardiovascular system // can be attributed to its conversion via aromatase activity in adipose tissue into 17-beta estradiol and its subsequent activation of estrogen alpha-receptors; thus, more testosterone leads to greater conversion into estrogen and thus a healthier lipid profile. It should be noted that this understanding has been determined in several studies, although results of these studies are contradictory. Testosterone replacement therapy in men diagnosed with pre-existing heart disease has been related to an increased risk of myocardial infarction. Furthermore, recent research has linked testosterone replacement therapy to an increase in deaths and other cardiovascular occurrences in men whom document a history
Testosterone gel linked to heart problems. [SEP] Testosterone and the cardiovascular system // men has also been reported in men with heart failure, whereby the severity of the disease is proportional to the reduction in systemic testosterone levels. Although a direct mechanism of action is not fully understood, some research attribute low testosterone to advancing side effects of heart failure, such as decreased exercise ability, decreased muscle mass, fatigue/dyspnea and cachexia. Physiological testosterone is crucial for normal functionality in men. Long-term administration of physiological testosterone in mouse models has shown to be atheroprotective by increasing the HDL portion of cholesterol (the anti-atherosclerotic cholesterol). The beneficial action of testosterone in elevating the HDL fraction
Testosterone gel linked to heart problems. [SEP] Testosterone (medication) // to those who had normal menopause. In addition to beneficial effects on sexual function, testosterone was associated with changes in blood lipids including decreased levels of total cholesterol, triglycerides, and high-density lipoprotein and increased levels of low-density lipoprotein. However, such changes were small in magnitude, and their long-term influence on cardiovascular outcomes is unclear. The changes were more pronounced with oral testosterone undecanoate compared to parenteral (e.g., transdermal) testosterone. Testosterone showed no significant effect on depressed mood or anxiety, anthropomorphic measures like body weight or body mass index, or bone mineral density. Conversely, it was associated with a significant incidence
Testosterone gel linked to heart problems. [SEP] Testosterone and the cardiovascular system // of coronary artery disease. Further research is required to determine the full extent to which testosterone replacement therapy in aging men plays a role in the risk and/or advantage of cardiovascular occurrences. Testosterone and the cardiovascular system The predominant androgen in men, testosterone, has shown to substantially decline throughout the aging process. The decline in both serum and total testosterone with age have been linked to several disease states in men. In particular, cardiac failure and ischemic heart disease have been linked to this natural biochemical decline in testosterone. Previously, the higher cardiovascular risk in men has been attributed in
Testosterone gel linked to heart problems. [SEP] Testosterone and the cardiovascular system // in men is influential in the pathogenesis of cardiovascular risk and the potential benefits of testosterone therapy has yet to be fully determined. Low testosterone is associated with an increased risk for coronary artery disease through the promotion of a pro-atherosclerotic environment. Some research has identified testosterone as a vasodilator and an endothelium-repairing hormone within many regions in the body, including the coronary arteries. Recent research depicts testosterone as important in decreasing the production of inflammatory cytokines such as tumor necrosis factor alpha, interleukin-1beta and interleukin-6, which are influential in atherosclerotic profiles. Although it is believed that the reduction in
Testosterone gel linked to heart problems. [SEP] Testosterone and the cardiovascular system // Testosterone and the cardiovascular system The predominant androgen in men, testosterone, has shown to substantially decline throughout the aging process. The decline in both serum and total testosterone with age have been linked to several disease states in men. In particular, cardiac failure and ischemic heart disease have been linked to this natural biochemical decline in testosterone. Previously, the higher cardiovascular risk in men has been attributed in part to the negative effects of systemic testosterone, however, more recent research has highlighted the protective nature of testosterone against cardiovascular disease. The magnitude and mechanism of action by which low testosterone
Testosterone gel linked to heart problems. [SEP] Late-onset hypogonadism // confirmation is not done about 25% of the time, as of 2015. Testosterone levels should also be monitored during therapy. Adverse effects of testosterone supplementation may include increased cardiovascular (CV) events (including strokes and heart attacks) and deaths, especially in men over 65 and men with pre-existing heart conditions. The potential for CV risks from testosterone therapy led the FDA to issue a requirement in 2015 that testosterone pharmaceutical labels include warning information about the possibility of an increased risk of heart attacks and stroke. However, the data are mixed, so the European Medicines Agency, the American Association of Clinical
Testosterone gel linked to heart problems. [SEP] Rhonda Voskuhl // with MS with a 10g gel containing 100 mg testosterone. Based upon the shift in cellular and chemical composition, particularly a decrease in IL-2 cell production, an increase in production growth factor TGFβ1, a decrease in CD4+ T cells, and an increase in NK (natural killer) cells, it was found that testosterone may play an important role in immunomodulation and neuroprotection. In a 2009 review article discussing the effects of sex hormones on MS, Voskuhl and Gold noted that one small trial conducted by a research team headed by Dr. Nancy Sicotte suggested testosterone could be effective in preserving cognitive
Testosterone gel linked to heart problems. [SEP] Androgen replacement therapy // possibility of an increased risk of heart attacks and stroke. On January 31, 2014, reports of strokes, heart attacks, and deaths in men taking testosterone-replacement led the FDA to announce that it would be investigating this issue. The FDA's action followed three peer-reviewed studies of increased cardiovascular events and deaths. Due to an increased rate of adverse cardiovascular events compared to a placebo group, a randomized trial stopped early. Also, in November 2013, a study reported an increase in deaths and heart attacks in older men. Even after a correction was published, the "Androgen Study Group", a group with many
Waste not, want not: P&G venture aims to squeeze new life out of Italy's dirty diapers. [SEP] Open-crotch pants // to toilet-train him the traditional Chinese way. Western manufacturers of consumer products, including disposable diapers, continued to push for entry into the vast Chinese market. In 1998 the American company Procter & Gamble (P&G) was able to introduce its popular Pampers brand to China; competitors soon followed. However, Chinese parents at first saw no reason to abandon "kaidangku" for diapers, and the company struggled to gain market share. After re-engineering its diapers to be softer and selling them at a lower price than it offered them for in the U.S., P&G launched its "Golden Sleep" campaign in 2007 suggested by
Waste not, want not: P&G venture aims to squeeze new life out of Italy's dirty diapers. [SEP] Waste Italia // Waste Italia Waste Italia S.p.A. is a leading company in Italy in the environmental field that deals with collection, treatment and disposal of non-hazardous waste. Waste Italia was founded in 2000 by the acquisition by some Italian businessmen, including Pietro Colucci, of the American company Waste Management Inc.. In 2014 Waste Italia joined Kinexia SpA, through the reverse merger that led Kinexia to merge with Sostenya and its subsidiary Waste Italia. The company adopts an integrated quality and environmental management that meets international standards UNI EN ISO 9001 and ISO 14001, certified by ANCIS (National Association for the Certification and
Waste not, want not: P&G venture aims to squeeze new life out of Italy's dirty diapers. [SEP] Adema Sangale // a campaign with David Johnston, Governor General of Canada behind the spirit of a more caring Canada. P&G is the world’s number one FMCG Company with an estimated daily turnover of $3 billion daily. The range of products includes sanitary pads, diapers, detergents, hair and beauty care products. Adema received one of the prestigious Chevening Award and has a Masters of Business Administration degree from the University of Oxford, UK and a Master of Public Administration Degree from Harvard University where she was an Edward S. Mason Fellow. She was recently nominated a New Generation Leader by the African Leadership
Waste not, want not: P&G venture aims to squeeze new life out of Italy's dirty diapers. [SEP] Waste Italia // Quality Service Industry). Waste Italia Corporate Social Responsibility implementation is carried out an organic way with the other companies of the Gruppo Waste Italia (formerly known as Kinexia), in order to integrate environmental activities with those on renewable energy. Waste Italia Waste Italia S.p.A. is a leading company in Italy in the environmental field that deals with collection, treatment and disposal of non-hazardous waste. Waste Italia was founded in 2000 by the acquisition by some Italian businessmen, including Pietro Colucci, of the American company Waste Management Inc.. In 2014 Waste Italia joined Kinexia SpA, through the reverse merger that led
Waste not, want not: P&G venture aims to squeeze new life out of Italy's dirty diapers. [SEP] GDiapers // GDiapers gDiapers is a diaper company headquartered in Portland, Oregon that focuses on reducing the environmental impact of disposable diapers. The company sells a hybrid diaper, called a gDiaper, that is used with cloth inserts or disposable inserts that can be flushed or composted (wet ones only). An investigation by the Federal Trade Commission in 2014 determined that gDiapers' product claims of having "green" and "eco-friendly" baby products were deceptive and a form of false advertising. gDiapers was founded in 2004 by Australian couple Jason and Kim Graham-Nye when they discovered they would be having a child, and they began
Waste not, want not: P&G venture aims to squeeze new life out of Italy's dirty diapers. [SEP] GDiapers // regions: GDiapers gDiapers is a diaper company headquartered in Portland, Oregon that focuses on reducing the environmental impact of disposable diapers. The company sells a hybrid diaper, called a gDiaper, that is used with cloth inserts or disposable inserts that can be flushed or composted (wet ones only). An investigation by the Federal Trade Commission in 2014 determined that gDiapers' product claims of having "green" and "eco-friendly" baby products were deceptive and a form of false advertising. gDiapers was founded in 2004 by Australian couple Jason and Kim Graham-Nye when they discovered they would be having a child, and they
Waste not, want not: P&G venture aims to squeeze new life out of Italy's dirty diapers. [SEP] Patrick Dovigi // As Dovigi has mentioned to the media in the past, in establishing GFL, Dovigi had two goals in mind: first, to unlock the potential value hidden in small, mom-and-pop waste companies in Canada; second, to conveniently offer bundled environmental services under one company brand, an offering that was not present in the Canadian waste industry at the time. Dovigi successfully led in merging and acquiring several local haulers, including National Waste Services. GFL would go on to successfully acquire nearly a dozen waste management companies. Dovigi and GFL gained a significantly higher level of prominence when the company won a
Waste not, want not: P&G venture aims to squeeze new life out of Italy's dirty diapers. [SEP] GDiapers // looking for an alternative diaper option to reduce the environmental impact of disposable diapers. According to co-founder Jason Graham-Nye, the goal was to create "the world's first hybrid diaper, essentially the best of cloth and disposable" (diapers). In 2010, gDiapers won Green America's People's Choice Award for Green Business of the Year. gDiapers became a Certified B Corporation (Benefit Corporation) in May 2011, and later became a partner of a maternal health organization called Every Mother Counts. Also, gDiapers' Disposable Diaper Inserts are recognized as a Cradle to Cradle Certified (cm) Silver product. gDiapers provides reusable and hybrid diapers, as
Waste not, want not: P&G venture aims to squeeze new life out of Italy's dirty diapers. [SEP] GDiaper // tears along the perforation to allow the fluff mixture contents to be emptied into a toilet before dropping in the outer teabag-like containment, stirs the contents to encourage it to break up, then flushes the insert. The wet-only Disposable Inserts can alternatively be home composted; inserts with fecal material should be flushed or disposed of through standard waste collection. The outer pant features back closure to prevent infants and toddlers from removing the diaper themselves. gDiapers gPants are available in a variety of colors and limited-edition prints, some with coordinating tops. gDiapers can also be used with a cloth diaper
Waste not, want not: P&G venture aims to squeeze new life out of Italy's dirty diapers. [SEP] Piracy off the coast of Somalia // front companies created by the Italian mafia. The European Green Party followed up these revelations by presenting before the press and the European Parliament in Strasbourg copies of contracts signed by two European companies—the Italian Swiss firm, Achair Partners, and an Italian waste broker, Progresso—and representatives of the warlords then in power, to accept 10 million tonnes of toxic waste in exchange for $80 million (then about £60 million). According to a report by the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) assessment mission, there are far higher than normal cases of respiratory infections, mouth ulcers and bleeding, abdominal hemorrhages and unusual
Mike Pence Says Hillary Clinton "wants to increase Syrian refugees to this country by 550 percent. [SEP] Executive Order 13769 // Mike Pence defended the Trump–Pence ticket's plan to suspend immigration from countries or regions of the world with a history of terrorism on "Meet the Press". He gave Syria as an example of such a country or region: "Donald Trump and I believe that we should suspend the Syrian refugee program" because, Pence said, Syria was a region of the world that was "imploding into civil war" and had "been compromised by terrorism". In late November following the Ohio State attack, President-elect Trump claimed the attacker was a "Somali refugee who should not have been in" the U.S. In early
Mike Pence Says Hillary Clinton "wants to increase Syrian refugees to this country by 550 percent. [SEP] Executive Order 13769 // immigration to the U.S; the campaign did not announce the details of the plan at the time, but Jeff Sessions, an advisor to Trump campaign on immigration, said the proposal was a statement of purpose to be supplied with details in subsequent months. On 15 July, Pence, who as governor of Indiana attempted to suspend settlement of Syrian refugees to the state but was prevented from doing so by the courts, said that decision was based on the fall 2015 FBI assessment that there is risk associated with bringing in refugees. Pence cited the infiltration of Iraqi refugees in Bowling
Mike Pence Says Hillary Clinton "wants to increase Syrian refugees to this country by 550 percent. [SEP] Refugees of the Syrian Civil War // to the US, 51% of Independents and 22% of Democrats. 4% to 5% of people in each party had no answer. The poll had a margin of error of plus or minus 2.9. This poll indicates that Democrats are largely in favor of Syrian refugees entering the US while Republicans are largely opposed and considering the margin of error, Independents are completely split on the issue. In another poll taken by Gallup in January 30 and 31st of 2017 Gallup asked people "Thinking now about some of the specific actions Donald Trump has taken since he has been in office,
Mike Pence Says Hillary Clinton "wants to increase Syrian refugees to this country by 550 percent. [SEP] Political positions of Hillary Clinton // Clinton also "sharply criticized Republican presidential candidates who favor granting legal status for some undocumented immigrants, but oppose citizenship," saying: "When they talk about 'legal status,' that is code for 'second-class status.'" Clinton said that she supported President Obama's Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, which grants undocumented youth (those who entered the U.S. as children) the chance to apply for a stay of deportation. In 2015, Clinton said that she wanted the United States to accept 65,000 Syrian refugees, a significant increase to the 10,000 that the Obama administration pledged to accept. On July 14, 2016, Clinton expressed support
Mike Pence Says Hillary Clinton "wants to increase Syrian refugees to this country by 550 percent. [SEP] Immigration policy of Donald Trump // U.S. By September 2015, Trump had expressed support for taking in some Syrian refugees and praised Germany's decision to take in Syrian refugees. On a number of occasions in 2015, Trump asserted that "If you're from Syria and you're a Christian, you cannot come into this country, and they're the ones that are being decimated. If you are Islamic ... it's hard to believe, you can come in so easily." PolitiFact rated Trump's claim as "false" and found it to be "wrong on its face", citing the fact that 3 percent of the refugees from Syria have been Christian (although
Mike Pence Says Hillary Clinton "wants to increase Syrian refugees to this country by 550 percent. [SEP] Immigration policy of Donald Trump // US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo that the United States would cap the number of refugees allowed into the country at 30,000 for fiscal year 2019. On January 27, 2017, Trump signed an executive order (Number 13769), titled "Protecting the Nation From Terrorist Attacks by Foreign Nationals", that suspended entry for citizens of seven countries for 90 days: Iraq, Iran, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen, totaling more than 134 million people. The order also stopped the admission of refugees of the Syrian Civil War indefinitely, and the entry of all refugees to the United States for 120 days. Refugees
Mike Pence Says Hillary Clinton "wants to increase Syrian refugees to this country by 550 percent. [SEP] John Garamendi // HR 4038, legislation that would effectively halt the resettlement of refugees from Syria and Iraq to the United States. On March 31, 2018, he described Trump's approach to Syria as "helter-skelter" and "chaos." "There is no policy in the Middle East," he said. He expressed opposition in April 2018 to a military strike on Syria. "You have to have a strategy. This president doesn't have a clue about how to build a strategy." In January 2018 he called the latest Republican's tax bill a "tax scam" that would primarily benefit the so-called "1 percent." He asserted that House "deficit hawks"
Mike Pence Says Hillary Clinton "wants to increase Syrian refugees to this country by 550 percent. [SEP] Refugees of the Syrian Civil War // United States as the second-largest donor of Syrian refugees after Turkey. On 27 January 2017, new US President Donald Trump announced that he had signed an executive order suspending any further resettlement of Syrian refugees to the United States indefinitely until further notice due to security concerns (excluding "refugee claims made by individuals on the basis of religious-based persecution, provided that the religion of the individual is a minority religion in the individual's country of nationality" which could include Christians, Shia Muslims and Yazidis in Syria). It will resume once an enhanced security screening procedure is implemented. Two days before
Mike Pence Says Hillary Clinton "wants to increase Syrian refugees to this country by 550 percent. [SEP] Refugees of the Syrian Civil War // original two efforts. Advocates against the ban include the American Civil Liberties Union which represent several groups challenging the ban and will continue to do so with American Civil Liberties Union's director Omar Jadwat saying "President Trump's anti-Muslim prejudice is no secret." In the 2016 Fiscal Year, the US dramatically increased the number of refugees admitted from Syria, totaling 12,587 refugees from the war-torn country. Ninety-nine percent of these refugees were Muslims (with few Shia Muslims admitted) and approximately one percent were Christian according to the Pew Research Center analysis of State Department Refugee Processing Center data. The religious breakdown
Mike Pence Says Hillary Clinton "wants to increase Syrian refugees to this country by 550 percent. [SEP] Executive Order 13769 // the U.S. selects refugees. António Guterres, then-UN High Commissioner for Refugees, said in October 2015 that many Syrian Christians have ties to the Christian community in Lebanon and have sought the UN's services in smaller numbers. During 2016 the U.S. had admitted almost as many Christian as Muslim refugees. Pew research also pointed out that over 99% of admitted Syrian refugees were Muslim and less than 1% Christian, despite the demographics of Syria being estimated by Pew to be 93% Muslim and 5% Christian. Senator Chris Coons (D-DE) accused Trump of spreading "false facts" and "alternative facts". In January 2016,
Ohio officials say tick-borne Lyme Disease still a threat. [SEP] Los Peñasquitos Lagoon // are often inadvertently transferred to hikers. Ticks can carry Lyme disease or Tularemia (rabbit fever). Lyme disease, if left untreated, can cause heart and brain disorders, including paraplegia in severe cases, and Tularemia can lead to incapacitating fever and in rare cases death. The canyon on the west side of Interstate 5 between Genesee Avenue and Sorrento Valley Road is particularly abundant with ticks, and a sign on the Del Mar trail near Carmel Valley Road warns hikers that ticks are found along that trail. Fortunately, Lyme disease happens to be "quite rare" in San Diego County, unlike most other
Ohio officials say tick-borne Lyme Disease still a threat. [SEP] Lyme disease // (i.e. the typical rash found in about 70-80% of people infected). Outdoor workers are at risk of Lyme disease if they work at sites with infected ticks. In 2010, the highest number of confirmed Lyme disease cases were reported from New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Wisconsin, New York, Massachusetts, Connecticut, Minnesota, Maryland, Virginia, New Hampshire, Delaware, and Maine. U.S. workers in the northeastern and north-central States are at highest risk of exposure to infected ticks. Ticks may also transmit other tick-borne diseases to workers in these and other regions of the country. Worksites with woods, bushes, high grass, or leaf litter are
Ohio officials say tick-borne Lyme Disease still a threat. [SEP] Occupational exposure to Lyme disease // normally lives in mice, squirrels, and other small mammals. Cat fleas and ticks can carry pathogenic organisms that infect a person with Lyme disease and other tick-borne diseases. Outdoor workers are at risk of Lyme disease if they work at sites with infected ticks. In 2010, the highest number of confirmed Lyme disease cases were reported from New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Wisconsin, New York, Massachusetts, Connecticut, Minnesota, Maryland, Virginia, New Hampshire, Delaware, and Maine. U.S. workers in the northeastern and north-central States are at highest risk of exposure to infected ticks. Ticks may also transmit other tick-borne diseases to workers in
Ohio officials say tick-borne Lyme Disease still a threat. [SEP] Western Connecticut State University // research opportunities the lake offers, working with WCSU faculty to study invasive water species such as Eurasian milfoil. Tick Research Dr. Neeta Connally, Ph.D., a full-time faculty member at WCSU, conducts research on Lyme disease and other tick-borne diseases in Fairfield County. Along with undergraduate students, Dr. Connally works with nearby towns to study local ticks. She also serves as scientific advisor to the BLAST (Bathe, Look for ticks, Apply repellent, Spray your yard, Treat your pets) program in Ridgefield, Connecticut. WestConn has the only bachelor's degree program in meteorology in southern New England. It is part of the Department
Ohio officials say tick-borne Lyme Disease still a threat. [SEP] Dermacentor variabilis // before disease transmission occurs. Dermacentor variabilis Dermacentor variabilis, also known as the American dog tick or wood tick, is a species of tick that is known to carry bacteria responsible for several diseases in humans, including Rocky Mountain spotted fever and tularemia ("Francisella tularensis"). It is one of the most well-known hard ticks. Diseases are spread when it sucks blood from the host, which could take several days for the host to experience some symptoms. Though "D. variabilis" may be exposed to "Borrelia burgdorferi", the causative agent of Lyme disease, these ticks are not competent vectors for the transmission of
Ohio officials say tick-borne Lyme Disease still a threat. [SEP] Tick-borne disease // an individual to acquire infection, the feeding tick must also be infected. Not all ticks are infected. In most places in the US, 30-50% of deer ticks will be infected with "Borrelia burgdorferi" (the agent of Lyme disease). Other pathogens are much more rare. Ticks can be tested for infection using a highly specific and sensitive qPCR procedure. Several commercial labs provide this service to individuals for a fee. The Laboratory of Medical Zoology (LMZ), a nonprofit lab at the University of Massachusetts, provides a comprehensive TickReport for a variety of human pathogens and makes the data available to the
Ohio officials say tick-borne Lyme Disease still a threat. [SEP] Lyme disease microbiology // Mongolia as well. In South America, tick-borne disease recognition and occurrence is rising. Ticks carrying "B. burgdorferi" "s.l.", as well as canine and human tick-borne diseases, have been reported widely in Brazil, but the subspecies of "Borrelia" has not yet been defined. The first reported case of Lyme disease in Brazil was made in 1993 in Sao Paulo. "B. burgdorferi" "sensu stricto" antigens in patients have been identified in Colombia and in Bolivia. B. burgorferi has been reported in Bay Islands of Honduras. In Northern Africa, "B. burgdorferi" "s.s." has been identified in Morocco, Algeria, Egypt, and Tunisia. In western
Ohio officials say tick-borne Lyme Disease still a threat. [SEP] Lyme disease // transmission is quite rare, with only about 1% of recognized tick bites resulting in Lyme disease. In Europe, the vector is "Ixodes ricinus", which is also called the sheep tick or castor bean tick. In China, "Ixodes persulcatus" (the taiga tick) is probably the most important vector. In North America, the black-legged tick or deer tick ("Ixodes scapularis") is the main vector on the East Coast. The lone star tick ("Amblyomma americanum"), which is found throughout the Southeastern United States as far west as Texas, is unlikely to transmit the Lyme disease spirochetes, though it may be implicated in a
Ohio officials say tick-borne Lyme Disease still a threat. [SEP] Lyme disease microbiology // 50 states in the U.S (all but Hawaii), about 99% of all reported cases are confined to just five geographic areas (New England, Mid-Atlantic, East-North Central, South Atlantic, and West North-Central). In Europe, cases of "B. burgdorferi" "s.l."-infected ticks are found predominantly in Norway, the Netherlands, Germany, France, Italy, Slovenia, and Poland, but have been isolated in almost every country on the continent. Lyme disease statistics for Europe can be found at Eurosurveillance website. "Borrelia burgdorferi" "s.l."-infested ticks are being found more frequently in Japan, as well as in northwest China and far eastern Russia. "Borrelia" has been isolated in
Ohio officials say tick-borne Lyme Disease still a threat. [SEP] Dermacentor variabilis // Dermacentor variabilis Dermacentor variabilis, also known as the American dog tick or wood tick, is a species of tick that is known to carry bacteria responsible for several diseases in humans, including Rocky Mountain spotted fever and tularemia ("Francisella tularensis"). It is one of the most well-known hard ticks. Diseases are spread when it sucks blood from the host, which could take several days for the host to experience some symptoms. Though "D. variabilis" may be exposed to "Borrelia burgdorferi", the causative agent of Lyme disease, these ticks are not competent vectors for the transmission of this disease. The primary
Missouri faces vaccination hesitancy amid measles case. [SEP] Measles // and was taking immunosuppressive drug for another condition. The drugs suppressed the woman's immunity to measles, and the woman became infected with measles; she did not develop a rash, but contracted pneumonia, which caused her death. In June 2017, the Maine Health and Environmental Testing Laboratory confirmed a case of measles in Franklin County. This instance marks the first case of measles in 20 years for the state of Maine. In 2018 one case occurred in Portland, Oregon, with 500 people exposed; 40 of them lacked immunity to the virus and were being monitored by county health officials as of
Missouri faces vaccination hesitancy amid measles case. [SEP] Epidemiology of measles // unvaccinated or whose vaccination status was unknown accounted for 122 cases. Some of these were under the age when vaccination is recommended, but in 63 cases, the vaccinations had been refused for religious or philosophical reasons. On May 24, 2011, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reported that the United States has had 118 measles cases so far this year. The 118 cases were reported by 23 states and New York City between Jan 1 and May 20. Of the 118 cases, 105 (89%) were associated with cases abroad and 105 (89%) of the 118 patients had not been
Missouri faces vaccination hesitancy amid measles case. [SEP] Epidemiology of measles // schedule or discourage vaccination, among them Bob Sears and Jay Gordon for reducing vaccination rates and thus weakening herd immunity, and creating a situation in which an outbreak was more likely. California passed a mandatory vaccination law in June 2015. In Spring 2015, a death of an immune-suppressed woman in Washington State caused by measles was diagnosed after autopsy. This was the first U.S. measles death since 2003. In spring 2017, a measles outbreak occurred in Minnesota. As of June 16, 78 cases of measles had been confirmed in the state, 71 were unvaccinated and 65 were Somali-Americans. The outbreak
Missouri faces vaccination hesitancy amid measles case. [SEP] Measles // initiated in Ohio when two unvaccinated Amish men returned to the United States from missionary work in the Philippines, harboring asymptomatic measles. Their return to a community with low vaccination rates led to an outbreak that rose to include a total of 383 outbreak-related cases across nine counties. Of the 383 cases, 340 (89%) occurred in unvaccinated individuals. From January 4 to April 2, 2015, there were 159 cases of measles reported to the CDC. Of those 159 cases, 111 (70%) were determined to have come from an earlier exposure in late December 2014. This outbreak was believed to have
Missouri faces vaccination hesitancy amid measles case. [SEP] Epidemiology of measles // declined to have them vaccinated. The typical vaccine would be the MMR vaccine. The incident drew attention to the controversy over MMR vaccination. This was San Diego County's first measles outbreak since 1991. In February 2008 there was an outbreak of measles in Pima County, Arizona. There were 13 laboratory confirmed and 4 probable measles cases, though 22 cases were previously reported. The outbreak started with a visitor from Switzerland and resulted in a public health emergency declaration by Pima County. The last confirmed Pima County case occurred in 1994, and the last outbreak occurred in 1991. By July 9,
Missouri faces vaccination hesitancy amid measles case. [SEP] Epidemiology of measles // 2008, a total of 127 cases were reported in 15 states (including 22 in Arizona), making it the largest U.S. outbreak since 1997 (when 138 cases were reported). Most of the cases were acquired outside of the United States and afflicted individuals who had not been vaccinated. By July 30, 2008, the number of cases had grown to 131. Of these, about half involved children whose parents rejected vaccination. The 131 cases occurred in seven different outbreaks. There were no deaths, and 15 hospitalizations. Eleven of the cases had received at least one dose of measles vaccine. Children who were
Missouri faces vaccination hesitancy amid measles case. [SEP] Vaccine controversies // refused to have their children vaccinated. In 2000, measles was declared eliminated from the United States because internal transmission had been interrupted for one year; remaining reported cases were due to importation. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) reported that the three biggest outbreaks of measles in 2013 were attributed to clusters of people who were unvaccinated due to their philosophical or religious beliefs. As of August 2013, three pockets of outbreak—New York City, North Carolina, and Texas—contributed to 64% of the 159 cases of measles reported in 16 states. The number of cases in 2014 quadrupled to
Missouri faces vaccination hesitancy amid measles case. [SEP] Epidemiology of measles // cases were reported). Most of the cases were acquired outside of the United States and afflicted individuals who had not been vaccinated. In early 2008 there was an outbreak of measles in San Diego, California. The outbreak is traced to an unvaccinated 7-year-old child who went on a family trip to Europe. The CDC refers to this as an "import-associated outbreak". The final diagnosis included 11 additional cases of measles in unvaccinated children in San Diego. All of the confirmed patients were not vaccinated because they were younger than 1, the minimum age for measles inoculation, or because their parents
Missouri faces vaccination hesitancy amid measles case. [SEP] Epidemiology of measles // in the Americas since 2002. The outbreak began on 8 January with unvaccinated individuals acquiring the disease whilst traveling to France, a country with high measles incidence, and returning home to Quebec. Public health officials responded to the outbreak by launching a mass vaccination campaign, and on 22 December, the outbreak ended with a total of 776 cases having occurred. 615 cases (79%) had not been vaccinated, including 29 infants too young to receive the vaccine. 11% of cases required hospitalization, and complications occurred in 64 cases (8%), with pneumonia being the most common complication observed (3% of cases). No
Missouri faces vaccination hesitancy amid measles case. [SEP] MMR vaccine // and 2013, measles vaccination resulted in a 75% decrease in deaths from the disease. Measles is common in many areas of the world. Although it was declared eliminated from the U.S. in 2000, high rates of vaccination and good communication with persons who refuse vaccination are needed to prevent outbreaks and sustain the elimination of measles in the U.S. Of the 66 cases of measles reported in the U.S. in 2005, slightly over half were attributable to one unvaccinated individual who acquired measles during a visit to Romania. This individual returned to a community with many unvaccinated children. The resulting
Southeast Asian nations, among worst ocean polluters, aim to curb plastic debris. [SEP] Marine debris // bags below 2000m depth off the west coast of North America and around Hawaii. The 10 largest emitters of oceanic plastic pollution worldwide are, from the most to the least, China, Indonesia, Philippines, Vietnam, Sri Lanka, Thailand, Egypt, Malaysia, Nigeria, and Bangladesh, largely through the rivers Yangtze, Indus, Yellow, Hai, Nile, Ganges, Pearl, Amur, Niger, and the Mekong, and accounting for "90 percent of all the plastic that reaches the world's oceans." An estimated 10,000 containers at sea each year are lost by container ships, usually during storms. One spillage occurred in the Pacific Ocean in 1992, when thousands of
Southeast Asian nations, among worst ocean polluters, aim to curb plastic debris. [SEP] Gulf of Thailand // "Severe erosion", more than five metres of coastline loss per year, afflicts 670 kilometres of that total. At least some of the erosion is attributable to the clearing of mangrove forests to make way for shrimp farms. In February 2017, a 10 kilometer-long patch of plastic refuse was found floating off Chumphon Province. Thailand is among the world's worst plastic polluters. More than half of "land-based plastic-waste leakage" into the sea originates from just five countries: China, Indonesia, the Philippines, Thailand, and Vietnam. The Thai Marine and Coastal Resources Department has noted that at least 300 sea animals on average—60
Southeast Asian nations, among worst ocean polluters, aim to curb plastic debris. [SEP] Plastic pollution // published by "Science", Jambeck "et al" (2015) estimated that the 10 largest emitters of oceanic plastic pollution worldwide are, from the most to the least, China, Indonesia, Philippines, Vietnam, Sri Lanka, Thailand, Egypt, Malaysia, Nigeria, and Bangladesh. In a study published by "Environmental Science & Technology", Schmidt "et al" (2017) calculated that the Yangtze, Indus, Yellow River, Hai River, Nile, Ganges, Pearl River, Amur, Niger, and the Mekong "transport 88–95% of the global [plastics] load into the sea." A source that has caused concern is landfills. Most waste in the form of plastic in landfills are single-use items such as
Southeast Asian nations, among worst ocean polluters, aim to curb plastic debris. [SEP] South Pacific garbage patch // continues, combined with overfishing, will result in plastics outweighing fish in the oceans by 2050. South Pacific garbage patch The South Pacific garbage patch is an area of elevated levels of marine debris and plastic particle pollution, most of which is concentrated within the ocean's pelagic zone. It is located within the South Pacific Gyre, which itself spans from waters east of Australia to the South American continent, as far north as the Equator, and south until reaching the Antarctic Circumpolar Current. The degradation of plastics in the ocean also leads to a rise in the level of toxins in
Southeast Asian nations, among worst ocean polluters, aim to curb plastic debris. [SEP] Indian Ocean garbage patch // Atlantic gyres. On the Indian Ocean leg of their trip, they travelled between Perth, Australia, and Port Louis, Mauritius (east of Madagascar); each of the water samples they collected in the between contained plastic. They found that the South Atlantic, South Pacific, and Indian Ocean gyres were affected in the same way as the North Pacific and North Atlantic gyres. Anna Cummins, cofounder of 5 Gyres Institute called the pollution they found "a thin plastic soup". On April 11, 2013, in order to create awareness, artist Maria Cristina Finucci founded The garbage patch state at UNESCO –Paris in front of
Southeast Asian nations, among worst ocean polluters, aim to curb plastic debris. [SEP] Great Pacific garbage patch // published in the journal "Science" sought to discover where exactly all of this garbage is coming from. According to the researchers, the discarded plastics and other debris floats eastward out of countries in Asia from six primary sources: China, Indonesia, the Philippines, Vietnam, Sri Lanka and Thailand. On 9 September 2018, the first collection system was deployed to the gyre to begin the collection task. This initial trial run of the Ocean Cleanup Project started towing its "Ocean Cleanup System 001" from San Francisco to a trial site some 240 nautical miles (260 miles) away. The Great Pacific garbage patch
Southeast Asian nations, among worst ocean polluters, aim to curb plastic debris. [SEP] Marine debris // worlds ocean currents. On 11 April 2013 in order to create awareness, artist Maria Cristina Finucci founded The Garbage patch state at UNESCO –Paris in front of Director General Irina Bokova. First of a series of events under the patronage of UNESCO and of Italian Ministry of the Environment. Forty-eight plastics manufacturers from 25 countries, are members of the Global Plastic Associations for solutions on Marine Litter, have made the pledge to help prevent marine debris and to encourage recycling. Marine debris is a problem created by all of us, not only those in coastal regions. Ocean debris can come
Southeast Asian nations, among worst ocean polluters, aim to curb plastic debris. [SEP] Plastic pollution // coast of Japan and the latter between Hawaii and California. The two garbage patches are both part of the great Pacific garbage patch, and are connected through a section of plastic debris off the northern coast of the Hawaiian islands. It is approximated that these garbage patches contain 100 million tons of debris. The waste is not compact, and although most of it is near the surface of the pacific, it can be found up to more than 100 feet deep in the water. Research published in April 2017 reported "the highest density of plastic rubbish anywhere in the world"
Southeast Asian nations, among worst ocean polluters, aim to curb plastic debris. [SEP] Bali // mile stretch of coastline in plastic waste brought in by the tide, amid concerns that the pollution could dissuade visitors from returning. Indonesia is one of the world's worst plastic polluters, with some estimates suggesting that the 260 million-population, 3,000-mile-wide, 17,000-island archipelago is the source of around 10 per cent of the world's plastic waste. Indonesia’s capital city Jakarta features several huge rubbish dumps and it is common to see swaths of plastics bobbing on the city's few waterways. The province is divided into eight regencies ("kabupaten") and one city ("kota"). These are: In 1970s, the Balinese economy was largely
Southeast Asian nations, among worst ocean polluters, aim to curb plastic debris. [SEP] The Ocean Cleanup // of the input stemming from rivers in Asia. In December 2017, they published a paper in "Environmental Science & Technology" about pollutants in oceanic plastic, based upon data from the Mega Expedition. They found that 84% of their plastic samples had at least one PBT chemical with concentrations exceeding safe levels. Furthermore, they found 180 times more plastic than naturally occurring biomass on the surface in the Great Pacific Garbage Patch. On March 22, 2018, The Ocean Cleanup published a paper in "Scientific Reports", summarizing the combined findings from the Mega- and Aerial Expedition. They estimate that the Patch contains
The use of cellular phones poses a danger of touching off explosions at gas stations [SEP] Filling station // point. The Petroleum Equipment Institute has recorded incidents of static-related ignition at refueling sites since early 2000. Although urban legends persist that a mobile phone can cause sparks, this has not been duplicated under any controlled condition. Nevertheless, mobile phone manufacturers and gas stations ask users to switch off their phones. One suggested origin of this myth is said to have been started by gas station companies because the cell phone signal would interfere with the fuel counter on some older model fuel pumps causing it to give a lower reading. In the MythBusters episode "Cell Phone Destruction", investigators concluded
The use of cellular phones poses a danger of touching off explosions at gas stations [SEP] Mobile telephony // a similar vein, signs are put up in many countries, such as Canada, the UK and the U.S., at petrol stations prohibiting the use of mobile phones, due to possible safety issues. However, it is unlikely that mobile phone use can cause any problems, and in fact "petrol station employees have themselves spread the rumour about alleged incidents." Like all high structures, cellular antenna masts pose a hazard to low flying aircraft. Towers over a certain height or towers that are close to airports or heliports are normally required to have warning lights. There have been reports that warning lights
The use of cellular phones poses a danger of touching off explosions at gas stations [SEP] Filling station // that explosions attributed to cell phones could be caused by static discharges from clothing instead and also observed that such incidents seem to involve women more often than men. The U.S. National Fire Protection Association does most of the research and code writing to address the potential for explosions of gasoline vapor. The customer fueling area, up to above the surface, normally does not have explosive concentrations of vapors, but may from time to time. Above this height, where most fuel filler necks are located, there is no expectation of an explosive concentration of gasoline vapor in normal operating conditions.
The use of cellular phones poses a danger of touching off explosions at gas stations [SEP] Filling station // some gasoline — which has historically been used to "thin" diesel fuel in winter. In most countries, petrol stations are subjected to guidelines and regulations which exist to minimise the potential of fires, and increase safety. It is prohibited to use open flames and, in some places, mobile phones on the forecourt of a filling station because of the risk of igniting gasoline vapor. In the U.S. the fire marshal is responsible for regulations at the gas pump. Most localities ban smoking, open flames and running engines. Since the increased occurrence of static-related fires many stations have warnings about leaving
The use of cellular phones poses a danger of touching off explosions at gas stations [SEP] Mobile phones on aircraft // could solve the present problems. On the other hand, official aviation agencies and safety boards are resisting any relaxation of the present safety rules unless and until it can be conclusively shown that it would be safe to do so. There are both technical and social factors which make the issues more complex than a simple discussion of safety versus hazard. In the United States, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) restricts cell phone usage on aircraft in order to prevent disruption to cellular towers on the ground. As mentioned above, the FAA allows the in-flight use of wireless devices but
The use of cellular phones poses a danger of touching off explosions at gas stations [SEP] Mobile phone // are able to track a phone's location, read messages, and record calls, just by knowing the phone number. Mobile phone use while driving, including talking on the phone, texting, or operating other phone features, is common but controversial. It is widely considered dangerous due to distracted driving. Being distracted while operating a motor vehicle has been shown to increase the risk of accidents. In September 2010, the US National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) reported that 995 people were killed by drivers distracted by cell phones. In March 2011, a U.S. insurance company, State Farm Insurance, announced the results of
The use of cellular phones poses a danger of touching off explosions at gas stations [SEP] Base station // phone radiation and health. Hand-held mobile telephones are relatively low power so the RF radiation exposures from them are generally low. The World Health Organization has concluded that "there is no convincing scientific evidence that the weak RF signals from base stations and wireless networks cause adverse health effects." The consensus of the scientific community is that the power from these mobile phone base station antennas is too low to produce health hazards as long as people are kept away from direct access to the antennas. However, current international exposure guidelines (ICNIRP) are based largely on the "thermal" effects of
The use of cellular phones poses a danger of touching off explosions at gas stations [SEP] Mobile phone overuse // potentially hazardous and can be "toxic" to the back of the eye. He states that an over exposure to blue violet light can lead to a greater risk of macular degeneration which is a leading cause of blindness. There are concerns that some mobile phone users incur considerable debt, and that mobile phones are being used to violate privacy and harass others. In particular, there is increasing evidence that mobile phones are being used as a tool by children to bully other children. There is a large amount of research on mobile phone use, and its positive and negative influence
The use of cellular phones poses a danger of touching off explosions at gas stations [SEP] Mobile phones and driving safety // Mobile phones and driving safety Mobile phone use while driving is common, but it is widely considered dangerous due to its potential for causing distracted driving and accidents. Due to the number of accidents that are related to conducting calls on a phone and texting while driving, some jurisdictions have made the use of calling on a phone while driving illegal. Many jurisdictions have enacted laws to ban handheld mobile phone use. Nevertheless, many jurisdictions allow use of a hands-free device. Driving while using a hands-free device is not safer than using a handheld phone to conduct calls, as concluded
The use of cellular phones poses a danger of touching off explosions at gas stations [SEP] Mobile telephony // the terrorists. The Finnish government decided in 2005 that the fastest way to warn citizens of disasters was the mobile phone network. In Japan, mobile phone companies provide immediate notification of earthquakes and other natural disasters to their customers free of charge. In the event of an emergency, disaster response crews can locate trapped or injured people using the signals from their mobile phones. An interactive menu accessible through the phone's Internet browser notifies the company if the user is safe or in distress. In Finland rescue services suggest hikers carry mobile phones in case of emergency even when deep
Britain to complete plan next year to reach net zero transport emissions. [SEP] Conservation movement // country, with the expectation of influencing policy decisions in other major countries. The proposal hopes to ignite the interest of private companies to engage in practices that reduce their emissions, for example, using more fuel efficient routes in transportation, relying more on digital documents than printed ones, adopting LED lighting in offices and using more efficient air conditioning systems. The government's approach to attain zero net emissions has yielded positive results overall, but has been described as insufficient and lacking by experts because it neglects vehicular emissions which account for nearly 20% of the country's total emissions. The 2021 target
Britain to complete plan next year to reach net zero transport emissions. [SEP] Air transport in the United Kingdom // account the total impact of emissions attributable to aviation is estimated to be twice that of its carbon emissions alone. Although the Government has committed to reducing total UK carbon emissions by 80 per cent from existing levels by 2050, its policy is based on the use of "… economic instruments to ensure that growing industries are catered for within a reducing total." Even if this reduction in total carbon emissions is achieved, research published in February 2006 concluded that aviation could account for between 24 per cent and 50 per cent of the UK's carbon budget by 2050. The
Britain to complete plan next year to reach net zero transport emissions. [SEP] Energy conservation in the United Kingdom // fuel tax, and stated that fuel prices should rise each year 'at least in line with inflation'. From 2008, a Renewable Transport Fuel Obligation is being introduced, under which petrol and diesel are likely to be blended with 5% biofuels by 2010. It is anticipated that this will cut carbon emissions in the transport sector by between 2% and 3%. The 'Low Carbon Vehicle Partnership' is pursuing the goal that new cars should produce no more than 100 g/km of CO by 2012. It also works in on reducing carbon emissions from commercial vehicles and in the area of alternative
Britain to complete plan next year to reach net zero transport emissions. [SEP] Energy policy of the United Kingdom // regulated under the Kyoto Protocol, so that if the UK is successful in carbon emission reduction, aviation will constitute 25 percent of UK generated greenhouse gases by the year 2030. The UK government has one project in the planning stage for natural gas fed power generation with carbon capture by seawater. This facility is contemplated at Peterhead, Scotland, a relatively remote exposure to the North Sea. Prof Kevin Anderson raised concern about the growing effect of air transport on the climate in a paper and a presentation in 2008. Anderson holds a Chair in Energy and Climate Change at the
Britain to complete plan next year to reach net zero transport emissions. [SEP] Energy policy of the United Kingdom // emissions is 80 percent decrease by the year 2050. A scheme of trading for carbon emission credits has been developed in Europe that will allow some of the reduction to arise from economic transactions. Road transport emissions reduction has been stimulated since 1999 by the banding of Vehicle Excise Duty. Bands for new vehicles are based on the results of a laboratory test, designed to calculate the theoretical potential emissions of the vehicle in grammes of CO per kilometre travelled, under ideal conditions. Average carbon emissions fell from 192 to 172 grams/mile between 1995 and 2004. Aviation fuel is not
Britain to complete plan next year to reach net zero transport emissions. [SEP] Sustainable transport // Prime Minister Tony Blair stated that We recognise that we cannot simply build our way out of the problems we face. It would be environmentally irresponsible – and would not work. A companion document to the White Paper called "Smarter Choices" researched the potential to scale up the small and scattered sustainable transport initiatives then occurring across Britain, and concluded that the comprehensive application of these techniques could reduce peak period car travel in urban areas by over 20%. A similar study by the United States Federal Highway Administration, was also released in 2004 and also concluded that a more
Britain to complete plan next year to reach net zero transport emissions. [SEP] Air transport in the United Kingdom // emissions made at ground-level; and that social pressures and marketing programs such as frequent flyer miles programs that both encourage a growing amount of travel and means to go. Climate scientist Kevin Anderson of the Tyndall Centre for Climate Change Research demonstrated in 2009 that continued annual growth in UK air travel at the usual seven percent until 2012 and at three percent thereafter will lead to such travel consuming 70 percent of the UK's total planned national carbon emissions by 2030. In that less-than-business-as-usual scenario, UK air travel emissions would increase from 11 MT in 2006, to 17 MT
Britain to complete plan next year to reach net zero transport emissions. [SEP] Air transport in the United Kingdom // rail lines) and includes plans for one of the World's largest airports. It would be capable of handling 150 million passengers a year, have 4 runways and be built on a platform in the Hoo Peninsula in Kent. Whilst carbon emissions from all UK activities other than aviation had declined by 9 per cent in the 10 years between 1990 and 2000, carbon emissions from aviation activities doubled in the same period. Air transport in the UK accounted for 6.3 per cent of all UK carbon emissions in 2006. When the radiative forcing impact of other emissions are taken into
Britain to complete plan next year to reach net zero transport emissions. [SEP] Vision Zero // 2020. This is a significant step change in transport policy at the European level. All new roads are built to this standard and older roads are modified. Transport appraisal in the United Kingdom is based on New Approach to Appraisal which was first published in 1998 and updated in 2007. In 2006 the Stockholm Environment Institute wrote a report at the request of the UK Department for Transport titled 'Vision zero: Adopting a Target of Zero for Road Traffic Fatalities and Serious Injuries'. In 2008 the Road Safety Foundation published a report proposing on UK road safety which referenced Vision
Britain to complete plan next year to reach net zero transport emissions. [SEP] Beyond Zero Emissions // 4-part Zero Carbon Australia Transport Plan. This is Beyond Zero Emissions' modelled costings to shift all of Australia's urban cars and buses to 100% battery electric vehicles (BEVs) powered by 100% renewable energy, cutting at least 6% of Australia's GHG emissions and fully a half of the nations transport emissions. Allowing for a 10-year transition costed over 20 years and assuming that battery prices drop in line with current trends the cost to the economy of a full transition was found to be the same as business-as-usual. All BZE publications are available as PDFs free of charge. Research for the
Senators: Double funding for universal flu vaccine research. [SEP] Influenza research // H5N1 contained, limiting its speed and extent of mutation, and buying time for new flu vaccine manufacturing methods and factories to come on line so that when the next flu pandemic happens the death toll can be minimized. See Prospects for universal flu vaccines The US government on May 4, 2006 awarded five-year contracts for "more than $1 billion to five drug manufacturers developing technology for speedier mass production of vaccines in the event of a pandemic" from the $3.8 billion pandemic preparedness bill passed in 2005. "The federal government says its goal is to be able to distribute a
Senators: Double funding for universal flu vaccine research. [SEP] Biodefense and Pandemic Vaccine and Drug Development Act of 2005 // top recipient in the Senate was the bill's sponsor, Senator Richard Burr, who received $288,684, according to the non-partisan Center for Responsive Politics. Senator Burr said the legislation "creates a true partnership" between the federal government, the pharmaceutical industry and academia to "walk the drug companies through the Valley of Death" in bringing a new vaccine or drug to market. Exemptions from open records and meetings laws would streamline the development process, safeguard national security and protect the proprietary interests of drug companies, say Republican backers of the bill. Senator Chris Dodd (D-Connecticut) said "Their plan will protect companies that
Senators: Double funding for universal flu vaccine research. [SEP] Prizes as an alternative to patents // Foundation have tried such a prize fund model. In their model, all applicants for funding from the Gates foundation must waive all claims to patents. “A World Health Organization (WHO) report, called 'Research and Development to Meet health Needs in Developing Countries', backs prize funds, saying it is a financially viable model” In 2012 the two bills were referred to the committee level in the Senate. They have not been put to a vote in either the Senate or the House. In 2009-2010 only 3% of all bills proposed in the senate were enacted. US President Barack Obama has pushed
Senators: Double funding for universal flu vaccine research. [SEP] Public Readiness and Emergency Preparedness Act // purview of the secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS). PREPA provides $3.8 billion for pandemic influenza preparedness to protect public health in the case of a pandemic disease outbreak. Vaccine manufacturers lobbied for the legislation, which would effectively preempt state vaccine safety laws in the case of an emergency declaration by HHS, by making clear they would not produce new vaccines unless the legislation was enacted. Legislative leaders Senator Bill Frist and Congressman Dennis Hastert were among the backers of PREPA legislation, which was tacked onto the end of a defense-spending bill (HR 2863). Of the $3.8 billion earmarked
Senators: Double funding for universal flu vaccine research. [SEP] 2017–18 United States flu season // cases in seven days, making it the state's highest weekly total on record. On February 11, 2018, United States Senator Amy Klobuchar from Minnesota announced a new bill called the Flu Vaccine Act, calling for further research on a better vaccine at the US National Institutes of Health. At the time, there had been 400 outbreaks of flu that season in Minnesota's schools, and 130 outbreaks in long-term care facilities, with one child in the state dying. Additionally, Klobuchar continued to push the US Food and Drug Administration to fix the national IV bag and saline shortage, for adversely affecting
Senators: Double funding for universal flu vaccine research. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic in the Philippines // day, in a hearing at the Philippine House of Representatives (Congress), Health secretary Francisco Duque requested PhP 19.8 billion fund for H1N1 resistance. He said that the money will be used for buying vaccines (PhP 16 billion), subsidizing poor patients and assistance to the families of poor victims (PhP 3 billion), and implementing rules and rehabilitation of target hospitals for H1N1 patients (PhP 800 million). The Congress questioned the amount of fund largely it is too huge to award and that there are no vaccine yet to buy. On the same hand, Iloilo Representative Ferjenel Biron, also the chairman of
Senators: Double funding for universal flu vaccine research. [SEP] Universal flu vaccine // a flu vaccine, and announced it was seeking a corporate partner. In 2010, the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID) of the U.S. NIH announced a breakthrough; the effort targets the stem, which mutates less often than the head of the virus. By 2010 some universal flu vaccines had started clinical trials. Other companies pursuing the vaccine as of 2009 and 2010 include Theraclone, VaxInnate, Crucell NV, Inovio Pharmaceuticals, Immune Targeting Systems (ITS) and iQur. Universal flu vaccine A universal flu vaccine is flu vaccine that is effective against all influenza virus strains regardless of the virus subtype
Senators: Double funding for universal flu vaccine research. [SEP] The Grand Challenges in Global Health // Committee of the scientific board and staff members from FNIH and BMGF reviewed the projects to move into the negotiations for grants. In May 2005, The Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation gave an additional $250 million to fund research for the initiative, bringing the foundation's commitment to $450 million. In June 2005, the initiative announced grants for 43 new projects, attracting international partners. Today, the work towards revolutionary advances in global health continues. 44 separate research projects are currently being managed, and solving even one of the 14 challenges could potentially improve the lives of millions. Goal 1: Improve Vaccines
Senators: Double funding for universal flu vaccine research. [SEP] Biodefense and Pandemic Vaccine and Drug Development Act of 2005 // Biodefense and Pandemic Vaccine and Drug Development Act of 2005 The Biodefense and Pandemic Vaccine and Drug Development Act of 2005 (), nicknamed "Bioshield Two" and sponsored by Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina), aims shorten the pharmaceutical development process for new vaccines and drugs in case of a pandemic, and to protect vaccine makers and the pharmaceutical industry from legal liability for vaccine injuries. The proposed bill would create a new federal agency, the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Agency (BARDA), that would act "as the single point of authority" to promote advanced research and development of drugs and vaccines
Senators: Double funding for universal flu vaccine research. [SEP] Gabriella Miller Kids First Research Act // planning. The bill would authorize $12.6 million out of the 10-Year Pediatric Research Initiative Fund for each of FY2014-FY2023 for pediatric research through the Common Fund. Requires such funds to supplement, not supplant, funds otherwise allocated by NIH for pediatric research. Prohibits the use of such amounts for any purpose other than allocating funds for making grants for pediatric research described in this Act. "This summary is based largely on the summary provided by the Congressional Budget Office, a public domain source." H.R. 2019 would amend federal law to end the taxpayers' option to designate a portion of their federal
Jury awards more than $70M to woman in baby powder lawsuit. [SEP] Johnson & Johnson // cancer after using the company's talc-based products like Johnson's Baby Powder for feminine hygiene. The verdict included $70 million in compensatory damages and $347 million in punitive damages. J&J said they will appeal the verdict. In October 2017, the Missouri Eastern District appeals court on Tuesday threw out a $72 million jury verdict. The appeals court ruled 3-0 that Jacqueline Fox's lawsuit lacked jurisdiction in Missouri because of a U.S. Supreme Court decision that imposed limits on where injury lawsuit can be filed which lawsuit's jurisdiction requires a stronger connection between the forum state and a plaintiff's claims. Fox, 62,
Jury awards more than $70M to woman in baby powder lawsuit. [SEP] Johnson & Johnson // still went ahead and made the product available. In February 2016, J&J was ordered to pay $72 million in damages to the family of Jacqueline Fox, a 62-year-old woman who died of ovarian cancer in 2015: the company said it would appeal. By March 2017, over 1,000 U.S. women had sued J&J for covering up the possible cancer risk from its Baby Powder product; the company says that 70 percent of its Baby Powder is used by adults. In August 2017, a California jury ordered Johnson & Johnson to pay $417 million to a woman who claimed she developed ovarian
Jury awards more than $70M to woman in baby powder lawsuit. [SEP] Talc // years before being diagnosed with ovarian cancer in 2011. In October 2016, a St. Louis jury awarded $70.1 million to a Californian woman with ovarian cancer who had used Johnson's Baby Powder for 45 years. In August 2017, a Los Angeles jury awarded $417 million to a Californian woman, Eva Echeverria, who developed ovarian cancer as a "proximate result of the unreasonably dangerous and defective nature of talcum powder", her lawsuit against Johnson & Johnson stated. At least 1,200 to 2,000 other talcum powder-related lawsuits are pending. On 20 October 2017, Los Angeles Superior Court judge Maren Nelson, dismissed the
Jury awards more than $70M to woman in baby powder lawsuit. [SEP] Johnson's Baby // 2016, J&J was ordered to pay $72 million in damages to the family of Jackie Fox, a 62-year-old woman who died of ovarian cancer in 2015. She had used Johnson's Baby Powder for many years. J&J claimed that the safety of cosmetic talc is supported by decades of scientific evidence and it plans to appeal the verdict. The British charity, Ovacome was quoted as saying that while there were 16 studies which showed that using talc increased the risk of ovarian cancer by around a third, and a 2013 review of US studies had similar results for genital, but not
Jury awards more than $70M to woman in baby powder lawsuit. [SEP] Talc // female genital area. Yet no federal agency in the US acted to remove talcum powder from the market or add warnings. In February 2016, as the result of a lawsuit against Johnson & Johnson (J&J), a St. Louis jury awarded $72 million to the family of an Alabama woman who died from ovarian cancer. The family claimed that the use of talcum powder was responsible for her cancer. In May 2016, a South Dakota woman was awarded $55 million as the result of another lawsuit against J&J. The woman had used Johnson & Johnson's Baby Powder for more than 35
Jury awards more than $70M to woman in baby powder lawsuit. [SEP] Johnson & Johnson // of Birmingham, Ala., died in 2015, about four months before her trial was held in St. Louis Circuit Court. She was among 65 plaintiffs, of whom only two were from Missouri. Subsequently, it also would kill three other recent St. Louis jury verdicts of more than $200 million combined. In July 2018, a St. Louis jury awarded nearly US$4.7 billion in damages to 22 women and their families after they claimed asbestos in Johnson & Johnson talcum powder caused their ovarian cancer. In August 2018, Johnson & Johnson said that it removed several chemicals from baby powder products and re-engineered
Jury awards more than $70M to woman in baby powder lawsuit. [SEP] Johnson & Johnson // them to make consumers more confident that products were safer for children. In December 2018, with 11,700 people suing Johnson & Johnson over cancers allegedly caused by baby powder, the company was forced to release internal documents. The documents showed that the company had known about asbestos contamination since at least as early as 1971 and had spent decades finding ways to conceal the evidence from the public. On December 19, the company lost its request to reverse a jury verdict that ruled in favor of the accusers, which required the company to pay $4.14 billion in punitive damages and
Jury awards more than $70M to woman in baby powder lawsuit. [SEP] W. Mark Lanier // 22 women who had filed suit against Johnson & Johnson. The lawsuit alleged that the company's talcum powder products contained asbestos and caused the women's ovarian cancer. The trial lasted six weeks, and resulted in $550 million in compensatory damages and $4.14 billion in punitive damages being awarded to the plaintiffs. Some of Lanier's trials have been carried on the Court-TV website and have been the subject of various articles and books. Lanier was the principle subject of "All the Justice Money Can Buy", by ex-NPR reporter Snigdha Prakash. Prakash was embedded in the Lanier trial team for the Vioxx
Jury awards more than $70M to woman in baby powder lawsuit. [SEP] Levy Konigsberg // a client who developed mesothelioma from exposure to asbestos contained in Johnson's Baby Powder. The award consisted of $37 million in compensatory damages and $80 million in punitive damages. In an article about the verdict published by Reuters, Mr. Maimon stated: "We are gratified that justice was achieved and that our clients will be fairly compensated." Levy Konigsberg is active in Qui Tam cases also known as Whistleblower of False Claims Act cases. In one case filed in 2009, the firm represented a whistleblower, Dr. Gabriel Feldman, who uncovered a large-scale Medicaid fraud. Founding partner Alan J. Konigsberg represented Feldman
Jury awards more than $70M to woman in baby powder lawsuit. [SEP] Anna Ayala // had won a suit against fast-food restaurant chain El Pollo Loco in which she was awarded US$30,000 in damages for medical expenses after her daughter Genesis contracted salmonella poisoning from eating at one of their Las Vegas-area restaurants. In mid-April 2004, El Pollo Loco spokeswoman Julie Weeks disputed this, saying that the company reviewed her claim and paid her nothing. In 2013, Ayala made international headlines again after being sentenced to two years in prison for being an accessory to a felony, filing a false police report and being a felon in possession of a firearm. In October the previous
Thailand reports new coronavirus death as total cases reach 1,245. [SEP] Coronavirus // 2013, a case of contamination from human to human in France was confirmed by the French Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. In addition, cases of person-to-person transmission have been reported by the Ministry of Health in Tunisia. Two confirmed cases seem to have caught the disease from their late father, who became ill after a visit to Qatar and Saudi Arabia. By Oct. 30 2013, there were 124 cases and 52 deaths in Saudi Arabia. After the Dutch Erasmus Medical Centre sequenced the virus, the virus was given a new name, Human Corona Virus-Erasmus Medical Centre (HCoV-EMC). The final
Thailand reports new coronavirus death as total cases reach 1,245. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // and from that family at least one additional person presented similar symptoms but tested negative for the novel coronavirus. On 21 February 2013, WHO stated that there had been 13 laboratory-confirmed cases, 6 cases (4 fatal) from Saudi Arabia, 2 cases (both fatal) from Jordan, 2 cases from Qatar, and 3 from the UK. In March 2013, the Saudi Arabia Ministry of Health reported the death of a 39-year-old man, the 15th case and 9th death reported to WHO. On 2 May 2013, the Saudi Ministry of Health announced five people died and two other people were in critical condition
Thailand reports new coronavirus death as total cases reach 1,245. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // deaths." On 31 October 2013, the WHO announced that three patients in Saudi Arabia died of MERS. The patients were one woman and two men and "all had underlying medical conditions but all reported having had no contact with animals before falling ill". Early of 23 April 2014, 11 new cases including a first case for Mecca were reported by the Health Ministry. An additional 13 cases were reported on the same day. With the additional reported cases, there are now a total of 285 cases with 83 deaths in the Kingdom. A hospital-related outbreak in Riyadh brought the total
Thailand reports new coronavirus death as total cases reach 1,245. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // government, in November 2013, reported a woman in Spain, who had recently traveled to Saudi Arabia for the Islamic pilgrimage, contracted the disease. On 14 April 2014, one Filipino paramedic died in the United Arab Emirates, with six other reported to be infected with the virus. On 17 April, the UAE Ministry of Health reported another fatality and four additional cases, including the Filipino medical worker who travelled to the Philippines on 16 April. On 21 April 2014, the Health Ministry of UAE reported an additional 9 cases. In April 2012, six hospital workers were diagnosed with acute respiratory failure
Thailand reports new coronavirus death as total cases reach 1,245. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // United Kingdom, France, Germany, and the United Arab Emirates. According to a European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) publication, on April 2014, Tunisia had a total of 3 cases with 1 fatality. In May 2015, the first case in South Korea was confirmed in a man who had visited several Middle Eastern countries. As of 16 June 2015, a total of 150 cases has been infected, including 18 deaths, according to the World Health Organization (WHO). As of 29 June 2015, 32 people in South Korea have died from this outbreak, with 182 confirmed cases of infection. There
Thailand reports new coronavirus death as total cases reach 1,245. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // Saudi Arabia. In the latest cluster of infections, 15 cases had been confirmed, and nine of those patients had died. Ten of the 22 people who died and 22 of 44 cases reported were in Saudi Arabia. An unconfirmed case in another Saudi citizen, for which no clinical information was available, was also reported around this time. On 22 September 2012, the Saudi Ministry of Health (MOH) announced that the two cases involving Saudi citizens, caused by what they termed a "rare pattern of coronavirus," had both proven fatal. Two of the Saudi Arabia cases were from the same family
Thailand reports new coronavirus death as total cases reach 1,245. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // 73 to 85 years, but they have all chronic diseases." With this announcement, the unofficial global case count reached 49 while the death toll stands at 24 according to the CDC. As of 26 June 34 deaths have been recorded in the kingdom. On 1 August 2013, the World Health Organization announced three new MERS-CoV cases in that Saudi Arabia, all of them in women, two of whom were healthcare workers. "With the three new cases, Saudi Arabia's posted MERS tally increases to 74 cases with 39 deaths. The cases raise the WHO's MERS count to 94 cases and 46
Thailand reports new coronavirus death as total cases reach 1,245. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // Saudi Arabia revised the country's total cases of MERS to date to 688 cases after re-examining the data as part of an effort to better understand the disease. A total of 282 people had died from MERS. The numbers represented a jump of 113 cases and 92 deaths. Despite the jump in reported cases, the number of new cases was on the decline according to Tariq Madany, head of the medical advisory council. At the same time, the Saudi deputy health minister was fired, the second high level health official fired within two months. On 4 June 2014, a study
Thailand reports new coronavirus death as total cases reach 1,245. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // have been at least 3800 quarantined. On 16 April 2014, Malaysia reported its first MERS-COV related death. The person was a 54-year-old man who had traveled to Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, together with pilgrimage group composed of 18 people, from 15–28 March 2014. He became ill by 4 April, and sought remedy at a clinic in Johor on 7 April. He was hospitalized by 9 April and died on 13 April. On May 11, 2014, two persons on Medan were suspected infected by MERS-Cov (Middle Eastern Respiratory Syndrome-Corona Virus). On 31 October 2013, the World Health Organization (WHO) confirmed that one
Thailand reports new coronavirus death as total cases reach 1,245. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // of unknown origin. Of the six, two died. All the cases were reported to the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC). After the September identification of a novel CoV strain, a retroactive analysis of the hospital workers was performed. Epidemiologists discovered the Jordan cases. Using stored laboratory samples for all six, it was found that samples from the two patients who had died tested positive for nCoV. On 24 April 2014, a 25-year-old male was found positive for the coronavirus. He had history of exposure to camels and had consumed camel milk. The Ministry of Health and Medical
Democrats push new $3T coronavirus relief bill through House. [SEP] Dianne Primavera // cervical cancer vaccinations, and later introduced another bill, that was signed into law, to create a public awareness program for cervical cancer vaccinations, and require that Medicaid and private health insurance cover the costs of the vaccine. The bill also used tobacco settlement money to create a fund to provide the vaccine to underinsured women. Primavera also sponsored a successful bill to require that minors be required to wear helmets while riding motorcycles, which passed despite strong opposition from House Republicans. During the session, she was one of only a few Democrats to oppose a controversial plan by Governor Bill
Democrats push new $3T coronavirus relief bill through House. [SEP] 2016 United States House of Representatives sit-in // on June 23 to vote on a bill to fund the Department of Veterans Affairs, military construction, and the country's response to the outbreak of the Zika virus, both times to chaotic scenes in the chamber. The House was then adjourned until July 5, without having taken action on any of the measures demanded by Democrats. Despite this, many Democrats insisted they would remain on the floor regardless, with California congresswoman Maxine Waters saying she would remain in place "until hell freezes over". A group of the Democrats ultimately occupied the floor through the night, only leaving on the afternoon
Democrats push new $3T coronavirus relief bill through House. [SEP] James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Act // Senate to do the same. In a Senate vote held on December 9, 2010, Democrats were unable to break a Republican filibuster against the bill. Opposed Republicans expressed concerns over the $7.4 billion cost of the bill. According to Republicans, the provisions to cover the cost of the healthcare program via an excise tax increase on foreign-made goods would violate international tax treaties. They also raised concerns about creating an expansive new healthcare entitlement program and re-opening the 9/11 Victims Compensation Fund. Many Republicans refused to end the filibuster until the Bush tax cuts were extended. Forty-two Senate Republicans had
Democrats push new $3T coronavirus relief bill through House. [SEP] Hurricane Sandy // including Fuse.tv, MTV.com, YouTube, and the sites of AOL and Yahoo! planned to stream the performance. On December 28, 2012, the United States Senate approved an emergency Hurricane Sandy relief bill to provide $60 billion for US states affected by Sandy, but the House in effect postponed action until the next session which began January 3 by adjourning without voting on the bill. On January 4, 2013 House leaders pledged to vote on a flood insurance bill and an aid package by January 15. On January 28, the Senate passed the $50.5 billion Sandy aid bill by a count of
Democrats push new $3T coronavirus relief bill through House. [SEP] Biodefense and Pandemic Vaccine and Drug Development Act of 2005 // top recipient in the Senate was the bill's sponsor, Senator Richard Burr, who received $288,684, according to the non-partisan Center for Responsive Politics. Senator Burr said the legislation "creates a true partnership" between the federal government, the pharmaceutical industry and academia to "walk the drug companies through the Valley of Death" in bringing a new vaccine or drug to market. Exemptions from open records and meetings laws would streamline the development process, safeguard national security and protect the proprietary interests of drug companies, say Republican backers of the bill. Senator Chris Dodd (D-Connecticut) said "Their plan will protect companies that
Democrats push new $3T coronavirus relief bill through House. [SEP] Hurricane Sandy relief bill // On January 4 the Bill was considered by the House. The vote was made under suspension of the rules, so it required a two-thirds majority. It was passed 354-67. The Bill was passed in the Senate by a voice vote on January 4. The Bill was presented to President Obama on January 4 and signed into law on January 6. On December 28, 2012, the Senate passed H.R. 1 of the 112th Congress, with an amendment in nature of a substitute, by a vote of 62 – 32. The bill would have provided for $60.4 billion in supplemental disaster assistance.
Democrats push new $3T coronavirus relief bill through House. [SEP] Jim Sensenbrenner // United States. Sensenbrenner, in spite of unanimous Congressional support, attempted to delay a bill in December 2010 that would have been benefited Hotaru Ferschke, the Japanese-born widow of a United States Marine killed in combat. Congressman John Duncan was able to use "a loophole" to get the bill passed in spite of Sensenbrenner's objections. By adding language in the Senate indicating the bill would not impact the federal budget Sensenbrenner could no longer block the bill by himself according to House rules. The measure was passed unanimously. On September 8, 2005, Sensenbrenner voted against a bill to provide $50 billion
Democrats push new $3T coronavirus relief bill through House. [SEP] Pia Cayetano // Act (RA 10070), National Anti-Rabies Act (RA 9482), and the Environmental Awareness and Education Act (RA 9512), among others. Most recently, Senator Cayetano worked for the passage of two landmark laws, the Reproductive Health Act (RA 10354), for which she was the principal sponsor, and the Sin Tax Reform Act (RA 10351) which sought to fund government health programs from tax proceeds from cigarettes and alcohol products. In 2016, she won as Congresswoman of Taguig City's second district. She would later be named one of twelve Deputy Speakers of the House of Representatives under the 17th Congress. Cayetano is an
Democrats push new $3T coronavirus relief bill through House. [SEP] Jess Herbst // to the bill. In spite of this they passed to bill on to the full senate which then passed it with little debate. Herbst returned to testify in the house hearing, waiting until 3:15am to give her testimony. Again the testimony was greater than 85% against. The House committee on State Affairs declined to vote, thus allowing the bill to die. Texas Lt. Governor Dan Patrick orchestrated a plan to force the issue by blocking critical spending legislation, thus forcing a special session. In July 2017 at a cost of an estimated $1 million to Texas tax payers, the special
Democrats push new $3T coronavirus relief bill through House. [SEP] Customer Protection and End User Relief Act // Office (CBO) estimates that implementing H.R. 4413 would cost $207 million in 2015 and $948 million over the 2015-2019 period, assuming appropriation of the necessary amounts. The CBO expects that enacting H.R. 4413 would affect direct spending and revenues; therefore, pay-as-you-go procedures apply. However, the CBO estimates that those effects would not be significant. H.R. 4413 contains no intergovernmental or private-sector mandates as defined in the Unfunded Mandates Reform Act. The Customer Protection and End User Relief Act was introduced into the United States House of Representatives on April 7, 2014 by Rep. Frank D. Lucas (R, OK-3). The bill
Students at Emory University were offered "emergency counseling" after pro-Trump graffiti appeared overnight in campus "safe spaces. [SEP] Chalkening // hate speech in the form of pro-Trump chalkings on the campus. The criticism of the anti-Trump Emory students was a backlash that arose out of a perceived pattern of coddling by university administrators of certain groups of university students that hold unreasonable views on the standards of public discourse. The "chalkening" phenomenon has come amid heightened tensions on American university campuses surrounding the 2016 Presidential Campaign, which has sometimes included violence. Perceived microagressions, such as "the chalkening", has been belittled by some commentators attempting to contrast it with world events in 2016 such as genocide and war. In mid-April 2016,
Students at Emory University were offered "emergency counseling" after pro-Trump graffiti appeared overnight in campus "safe spaces. [SEP] Students for Trump // Students for Trump president Chevy Swanson, and S4T senior advisor James Allsup, lasted for an approximately an hour and a half, and was met with ten Trump supporters and over 100 protestors. The wall was painted with a brick design, with "Trump Wall" written in gold paint, and "Blues Lives Matter" and "Make America Great Again" written in blue. At one point, a student attempted to scale the wall. Shortly after this, the organizers were asked by the University Police to take the wall down, which they did. Portland State University Students for Trump, a group unaffiliated with the S4T
Students at Emory University were offered "emergency counseling" after pro-Trump graffiti appeared overnight in campus "safe spaces. [SEP] Students for Trump // and April 2016, college students at universities across the United States used chalk to write slogans in support of Donald Trump's presidential campaign. The event was publicized on Twitter by Dan Scavino and the Students for Trump official account. The event, and ensuing student reaction, led to DePaul University to ban the use of chalk on campus property. On May 9, 2016, a group of students at the University of Washington constructed an 8'x10' "Trump Wall" out of plywood and lumber in the center of the Red Square courtyard. The event, led by UW College Republicans president Jessie Gamble, UW
Students at Emory University were offered "emergency counseling" after pro-Trump graffiti appeared overnight in campus "safe spaces. [SEP] Chalkening // DePaul University banned the use of chalk on campus sidewalks after the College Republicans organized a chalking event where students wrote pro-Trump messages. Chalkening The Chalkening was a protest that occurred on university campuses across the United States in March and April 2016 in support of the presidential candidacy of Donald Trump. Those who promoted it included Students for Trump and the Trump campaign. This protest mainly took the form of chalk writing in public areas on campus with slogans such as "Trump 2016". This mass, chalk-based protest happened alongside an outpouring of media criticism of an incident at Emory
Students at Emory University were offered "emergency counseling" after pro-Trump graffiti appeared overnight in campus "safe spaces. [SEP] Kappa Alpha Order // in New Orleans, Louisiana, constructed a sand-bag wall around its house that contained spray-painted slogans in reference to Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump's proposal to build a wall between the U.S. and Mexico. The chapter said that the wall had been built for an annual "capture the flag" game and that the pro-Trump slogans were satirical and not in support of the candidate or his message. Some students protested that the wall was offensive and anti-immigrant or anti-Latino. The wall was later forcefully dismantled, allegedly in part by members of the Tulane football team. In 1980, several students at Vanderbilt
Students at Emory University were offered "emergency counseling" after pro-Trump graffiti appeared overnight in campus "safe spaces. [SEP] Michael Williams (Georgia politician) // to build name recognition and lack of any significant accomplishment in the Georgia Legislature. Williams staged a protest at River Ridge School in protest of a teacher who had banned her students from wearing pro-Trump tee-shirts. The Williams campaign said, "Once again, the school is attempting to ignore the rights of Trump supporters to express their 1st Amendment rights. Just five days after Cherokee County Chief Marshal Ron Hunton told the "Cherokee Tribune" that our protest was lawful, the school is claiming it unlawful with threat of forceful police removal." Williams was quoted saying, "If politicians wanted to have a
Students at Emory University were offered "emergency counseling" after pro-Trump graffiti appeared overnight in campus "safe spaces. [SEP] Chalkening // Chalkening The Chalkening was a protest that occurred on university campuses across the United States in March and April 2016 in support of the presidential candidacy of Donald Trump. Those who promoted it included Students for Trump and the Trump campaign. This protest mainly took the form of chalk writing in public areas on campus with slogans such as "Trump 2016". This mass, chalk-based protest happened alongside an outpouring of media criticism of an incident at Emory University in March 2016. An Emory university administrator sent an email expressing support for students who claimed to feel threatened and unsafe by
Students at Emory University were offered "emergency counseling" after pro-Trump graffiti appeared overnight in campus "safe spaces. [SEP] Milo Yiannopoulos // event. One person was arrested for failure to disperse, and there was about $100,000 in damage. The police were criticised for their "hands off" policy whereby they did not arrest any of the demonstrators who committed assault, vandalism, or arson. President Trump criticised the university on Twitter for failing to allow freedom of speech, and threatened to defund UC Berkeley. After the incident, Yiannopoulos' upcoming book, "Dangerous", returned to number one for a few days on Amazon's "Best Sellers" list. According to Yiannopoulos' Facebook post, he planned to return to Berkeley, "hopefully within the next few months." He was invited
Students at Emory University were offered "emergency counseling" after pro-Trump graffiti appeared overnight in campus "safe spaces. [SEP] A Rape on Campus // following publication, Phi Kappa Psi's fraternity house at UVA was vandalized with spray-painted graffiti that read "suspend us", "UVA Center for Rape Studies", and "Stop raping people". In addition, several windows were broken with bottles and cinder blocks, and police officials said that the group received "disparaging messages" on social media. A few hours after the incident, several news groups received an anonymous letter claiming responsibility for the vandalism and demanding that the university implement harsher consequences for sexual assault (mandatory expulsion), conduct a review of all fraternities on campus, the resignation of Nicole Eramo, and the implementation of harm
Students at Emory University were offered "emergency counseling" after pro-Trump graffiti appeared overnight in campus "safe spaces. [SEP] Phi Gamma Delta // on social media of waving Donald Trump signs and screaming, "grab them by the pussy," and then announcing which marchers they would and would not want to "grab by the pussy". Multiple protesters have said that they heard the fraternity members chanting, which a spokesperson for the fraternity has denied. One week later, a protest was held outside the fraternity's chapter-house. The protest was attended by about 50 people, include an antifa group which flung tampons dipped in red paint at the building. In 1997, as part of an allegedly mandatory hazing event at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology chapter,
President Donald Trump has targeted the family of California Senate President Pro Tempore Kevin de León for deportation. [SEP] Kevin de León // Kevin de León Kevin Alexander Leon (born December 10, 1966), known professionally as Kevin de León, is an American politician who was a candidate in the United States Senate election in California, 2018. A Democrat, de León served in the California State Senate from 2010 to 2018 and served as the State Senate President pro tempore from October 15, 2014, to March 21, 2018. De León represented the 24th Senate district, which encompasses Downtown and East Los Angeles. Before the 2010 redistricting, he represented the 22nd Senate district. De León was elected Senate President Pro Tempore on June 19, 2014,
President Donald Trump has targeted the family of California Senate President Pro Tempore Kevin de León for deportation. [SEP] Kevin de León // elected to the United States Senate. He supported SB 562, a proposed bill to create a single payer health care system in California, which stalled in 2017. In 2016, de León was accused of nepotism and influence peddling when his daughter, Lluvia Carrasco, was hired by an Encino-based political firm Shallman Communications, which counts de León and a number of other prominent California Democrats as clients. In 2015, de León's daughter also secured a job with the Greenlining Institute, an organization whose bill de León was shepherding through the State Legislature. De León later admitted that he called the organization
President Donald Trump has targeted the family of California Senate President Pro Tempore Kevin de León for deportation. [SEP] Kevin de León // vote of the legislature to expel Mendoza. Mendoza resigned before a vote could be called, claiming de León's position was politically motivated. On October 15, 2017, de León announced his bid to challenge incumbent United States Senator Dianne Feinstein in the 2018 election. The following day a super PAC created by California political strategists Dave Jacobson and Maclen Zilber was formed to support his candidacy. On June 5, de León came in second place in the "jungle primary" with 12% of the total vote, enough to advance to the November general election. Feinstein received 44% while Republican candidates collectively received
President Donald Trump has targeted the family of California Senate President Pro Tempore Kevin de León for deportation. [SEP] Kevin de León // and was sworn in on October 15, 2014. A member of the California Latino Legislative Caucus, he is the first Hispanic American to hold the former position in over 130 years. Prior to being elected to the State Senate in 2010, de León served in the California State Assembly, representing the 45th Assembly District. Kevin Leon was born in Los Angeles, to Carmen Osorio and Andrés Leon. Both his parents were born in Guatemala with his father being of full or partial Chinese descent. His mother moved from Guatemala to Tijuana, Mexico in the 1960s; she later moved to Los
President Donald Trump has targeted the family of California Senate President Pro Tempore Kevin de León for deportation. [SEP] Kevin de León // the University of California, Santa Barbara before dropping out. He later earned a bachelor's degree from Pitzer College in 2003. While attending UC Santa Barbara, he began going by "Kevin de León" though he has never legally changed his name. After dropping out of college, de León worked for One Stop Immigration Center, a nonprofit organization in Los Angeles that assists undocumented immigrants. He later became a labor organizer for the California Teachers Association, and served as the campaign manager for Fabian Nuñez's campaign for California State Assembly in 2002. De León and Nuñez have been close political allies for
President Donald Trump has targeted the family of California Senate President Pro Tempore Kevin de León for deportation. [SEP] Kevin de León // De Leon won many of the same counties won by Republican gubernatorial nominee John Cox. De León has said that he did not know his father, Andres, but remembers meeting him as a boy. He currently lives in Los Angeles and has a grown daughter, Lluvia Carrasco. Carrasco's mother is San Jose Vice Mayor Magdalena Carrasco. De León has never been married. Kevin de León Kevin Alexander Leon (born December 10, 1966), known professionally as Kevin de León, is an American politician who was a candidate in the United States Senate election in California, 2018. A Democrat, de León served
President Donald Trump has targeted the family of California Senate President Pro Tempore Kevin de León for deportation. [SEP] Kevin de León // just over 33%. De Leon's 12% was the lowest ever recorded for a candidate who advanced to the general election since California instituted its jungle primary rules in 2016. In July, de León won the endorsement of California Democratic Party at their executive board meeting in Oakland. Despite the endorsement, De Leon's campaign has been marked by fundraising struggles and low name recognition. On November 6, 2018 De Leon was defeated by Senator Dianne Feinstein, 54.2% to 45.8%. The race had an undervote of around 1.3 million votes compared to the gubernatorial election, likely by Republican voters choosing neither candidate.
President Donald Trump has targeted the family of California Senate President Pro Tempore Kevin de León for deportation. [SEP] Kevin de León // to parts of Orange County, was killed by the State Senate appropriations committee. Opponents of the project blamed de León, then President pro Tempore of the Senate, and pointed out that the company behind the project had donated $5,000 to de León's political campaign. Fabian Nuñez, a close ally and donor to de León, also represented company as its lobbyist. DeLeón supported the construction of the state's high speed rail project, but argued that construction should have started in major cities like San Francisco and Los Angeles, rather than the state's Central Valley. In his argument, de León described the
President Donald Trump has targeted the family of California Senate President Pro Tempore Kevin de León for deportation. [SEP] Kevin de León // the vote was later changed. As a result of the controversy, Bass changed Assembly rules to enforce a ban on ghost voting. In 2009, he was defeated in a bid to become Speaker of the California State Assembly, after too many Assembly members found de León's ambitious nature grating, eroding his support, according to reports in the "Los Angeles Times." De León was elected to the California State Senate in 2010 and became President pro Tempore of the State Senate in 2014. As a Senator, de León has been generally regarded as a liberal and describes himself as a "proud
President Donald Trump has targeted the family of California Senate President Pro Tempore Kevin de León for deportation. [SEP] Kevin de León // of Justice before building or assembling a gun. De León has also criticized NRA Executive Vice President Wayne LaPierre. De León co-authored, with State Senator Hannah-Beth Jackson, SB 967, which required colleges in California to adopt an "affirmative consent standard" and prohibits various affirmative defenses, including prohibiting specified factors that may negate an accused's "mens rea" (for example testing the question of intention in a crime), in college disciplinary proceedings involving allegations of sexual misconduct. De León is a supporter of creating a single-payer health care system. He has promised to support Senator Bernie Sanders's "Medicare for All" legislation if
Massachusetts lawmakers weigh ‘Medicare for all’ bill. [SEP] Massachusetts health care reform // to operate an expanded Medicaid program. Under the existing waiver, the state was receiving $385 million in federal funds to reimburse hospitals for services provided to the uninsured. The free care pool had to be restructured so that individuals, rather than institutions, received the funding. Then-U.S. Senator Edward Kennedy (D-MA) made a special effort to broker a compromise between the Republican Governor and the Democratic State Legislature. In Fall 2005, the House and Senate each passed health care insurance reform bills. The legislature made a number of changes to Governor Romney's original proposal, including expanding MassHealth (Medicaid and SCHIP) coverage
Massachusetts lawmakers weigh ‘Medicare for all’ bill. [SEP] Massachusetts health care reform // Care Today) Coalition introduced a bill that expanded MassHealth (Medicaid and SCHIP) coverage and increased health coverage subsidy programs and required employers to either provide coverage or pay an assessment to the state. The coalition began gathering signatures to place their proposal on the ballot in November 2006 if the legislature did not enact comprehensive health care reform, resulting in the collection of over 75,000 signatures on the MassACT ballot proposal. The Blue Cross Blue Shield Foundation sponsored a study, "Roadmap to Coverage," to expand coverage to everyone in the Commonwealth. Attention focused on the House when then-Massachusetts House Speaker
Massachusetts lawmakers weigh ‘Medicare for all’ bill. [SEP] Single-payer healthcare // Health Care for All Illinois Act was introduced and the Illinois House of Representatives' Health Availability Access Committee passed the single-payer bill favorably out of committee by an 8–4 vote. The legislation was eventually referred back to the House rules committee and not taken up again during that session. Massachusetts had passed a universal healthcare program in 1986, but budget constraints and partisan control of the legislature resulted in its repeal before the legislation could be enacted. Question 4, a nonbinding referendum, was on the ballot in 14 state districts in November 2010, asking voters, "[S]hall the representative from this
Massachusetts lawmakers weigh ‘Medicare for all’ bill. [SEP] Massachusetts health care reform // the need for this fund. In 2006, MIT economics professor Jonathan Gruber predicted that the amount of money in the "free care pool" would be sufficient to pay for reform legislation without requiring additional funding or taxes. In November 2004, political leaders began advocating major reforms of the Massachusetts health care insurance system to expand coverage. First, the Senate President Robert Travaglini called for a plan to reduce the number of uninsured by half. A few days later, Governor Romney announced that he would propose a plan to cover virtually all the uninsured. At the same time, the ACT (Affordable
Massachusetts lawmakers weigh ‘Medicare for all’ bill. [SEP] Healthcare disparity in Massachusetts // out-of-pocket cost. Even once they had seen a primary physician, 15.4% reported not seeing a specialist due to out-of-pocket cost. In 2006, Massachusetts passed an expansive health care reform bill. The law had three key components aimed at combating healthcare inequality - mandating that every citizen has a minimum level of insurance coverage, providing free health care insurance for residents earning less than 150% of the federal poverty level and mandating employers with more than 10 "full-time" employees to provide healthcare insurance. Healthcare disparity in Massachusetts Healthcare disparity in Massachusetts refers to the issues in access to, and treatment of,
Massachusetts lawmakers weigh ‘Medicare for all’ bill. [SEP] Salvatore DiMasi // law. In April 2006, Governor Mitt Romney signed the first-in-the-nation universal health insurance bill into law. As a result of the law, Massachusetts reduced the number of uninsured adults by nearly half within the first year of mandatory health coverage and increased the percentage of people receiving routine preventive care, according to the first major study of the 2006 law conducted by the Urban Institute. In 2007, Massachusetts governor Deval Patrick submitted a bill that would allow the construction and operation of three resort-style casinos in the state. He argued that these casinos would generate $2 billion for the state
Massachusetts lawmakers weigh ‘Medicare for all’ bill. [SEP] Bundled payment // method in Massachusetts. As of 2010, provisions for bundled payments are included in both the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Affordable Health Care for America Act. The former bill establishes a national Medicare pilot program starting in 2013 with possible expansion in 2016, which is consistent with the Obama proposal. The latter bill requires "a plan to reform Medicare payments for post-acute services, including bundled payments." 450 healthcare organizations participated in the Bundled Payments for Care Improvement (BPCI) initiative held by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services. The program tested the ability of bundling payments for
Massachusetts lawmakers weigh ‘Medicare for all’ bill. [SEP] Massachusetts health care reform // to offer free, highly subsidized and full-price private insurance plans to residents, including through its web site. As such it is one of the models of the Affordable Care Act's health insurance exchanges. The 2006 Massachusetts law successfully covered approximately two-thirds of the state's then-uninsured residents, half via federal-government-paid-for Medicaid expansion (administered by MassHealth) and half via the Connector's free and subsidized network-tiered health care insurance for those not eligible for expanded Medicaid. Relatively few Massachusetts residents used the Connector to buy full-priced insurance. The healthcare insurance reform law was enacted as Chapter 58 of the Acts of 2006 of
Massachusetts lawmakers weigh ‘Medicare for all’ bill. [SEP] Massachusetts health care reform // Salvatore DiMasi, speaking at a Blue Cross Blue Shield Foundation Roadmap To Coverage forum in October 2005, pledged to pass a bill through the House by the end of the session. At the forum, the Foundation issued a series of reports on reform options, all of which included an individual mandate. At the end of the month, the Joint Committee on Health Care Financing approved a reform proposal crafted by House Speaker DiMasi, Committee co-chair Patricia Walrath, and other House members. The state faced pressure from the federal government to make changes to the federal waiver that allows the state
Massachusetts lawmakers weigh ‘Medicare for all’ bill. [SEP] Massachusetts health care reform // country faced unpaid bills and mounting expenses to care for the uninsured. In Massachusetts, a pool of over $1 billion in 2004/2005, funded by a tax on paying hospital customers and insurance premiums, known as the Uncompensated Care Pool (or "free care pool"), was used to partially reimburse hospitals and health centers for these ED expenses. A much larger portion of the pool was used for non-ED hospital care for the uninsured and for other care at Community Health Centers. It was predicted that implementation of the 2006 Massachusetts healthcare insurance reform law would result in almost complete elimination of
Dr. Leon Eisenberg, the ‘father’ of ADHD, said just before his death that ADHD ‘is a prime example of a fictitious disease.’ [SEP] Leon Eisenberg // timely, and concerned working scientists. A 2012 article in the German weekly publication "Der Spiegel" gives an account of an interview Eisenberg gave in 2009, seven months before his death. It quotes him as saying, "ADHD is a prime example of a fabricated disease. ... The genetic predisposition to ADHD is completely overrated." Instead of prescribing a 'pill', Eisenberg said, psychiatrists should determine whether there are psychosocial reasons that could lead to behavioral problems. Many of Leon Eisenberg's books and papers have been translated into both European and non-European languages and have been widely cited. Kleinman A, Eisenberg L, Desjarlais
Dr. Leon Eisenberg, the ‘father’ of ADHD, said just before his death that ADHD ‘is a prime example of a fictitious disease.’ [SEP] Leon Eisenberg // in Boston during formative periods in psychiatry for each institution. The reasons Leon Eisenberg is listed as a famous figure in world and American psychiatry are numerous; here are eight select reasons. Leon Eisenberg identified rapid return to school as the key to treatment in the management of the separation anxiety underlying school phobia. He completed the first outcome study of autistic children in adolescence and recognized patterns of language use as the best predictor of prognosis. Of the two first studies of the outcome of infantile autism, he reported the American study in the "American Journal of Psychiatry" in
Dr. Leon Eisenberg, the ‘father’ of ADHD, said just before his death that ADHD ‘is a prime example of a fictitious disease.’ [SEP] Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder controversies // who had coined the term ADDD in the 1950s, said "ADHD is a prime example of a fictitious disease". Snopes, a popular fact checking website found this to be mostly true. The pathophysiology of ADHD is unclear and there are a number of competing theories. Frequently observed differences in the brain between ADHD and non-ADHD patients have been discovered, but it is uncertain if or how these differences give rise to the symptoms of ADHD. Results from various types of neuroimaging techniques suggest there are differences in the brain, such as thinner regions of the cortex, between individuals with and
Dr. Leon Eisenberg, the ‘father’ of ADHD, said just before his death that ADHD ‘is a prime example of a fictitious disease.’ [SEP] Bruce D. Perry // of a variety of professional awards. Perry's Neurosequential Model of Therapeutics is currently the working model used by Youthville's Trauma Recovery Center in Wichita, Kansas. Perry contends that attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is not "a real disease... It is best thought of as a description. If you look at how you end up with that label, it is remarkable because any one of us at any given time would fit at least a couple of those criteria." Perry's first wife, Arlis Perry, was murdered in Stanford Memorial Church on the grounds of Stanford University in California on October 12,
Dr. Leon Eisenberg, the ‘father’ of ADHD, said just before his death that ADHD ‘is a prime example of a fictitious disease.’ [SEP] Leon Eisenberg // R (Eds) (1995), World Mental Health: Priorities and Problems in Low-Income Countries. New York: Oxford University Press. Several late-in-life and posthumous awards were developed to continue the historic legacy of Leon Eisenberg. Leon Eisenberg Leon Eisenberg, (August 8, 1922 – September 15, 2009) was an American child psychiatrist, social psychiatrist and medical educator who "transformed child psychiatry by advocating research into developmental problems" He is credited with a number of "firsts" in medicine and psychiatry - in child psychiatry, autism, and the controversies around autism, randomized clinical trials (RCTs), social medicine, global health, affirmative action, and evidence-based psychiatry. Having retired
Dr. Leon Eisenberg, the ‘father’ of ADHD, said just before his death that ADHD ‘is a prime example of a fictitious disease.’ [SEP] Leon Eisenberg // RCTs in child psychopharmacology. From a concern for evidence-based care, well before the phrase was coined, he introduced randomized controlled trials (RCTs) in psychopharmacology and showed that "tranquilizing" drugs were inferior to placebo in the treatment of anxiety disorders, whereas stimulant drugs were effective in controlling hyperactivity. He completed the first RCTs of psychiatric consultation to social agencies and of the utility of brief psychotherapy in anxiety disorders. He published a forceful critique of Konrad Lorenz's instinct theory. He established the usefulness of distinguishing "disease" from "illness". He has highlighted the environmental context as a determinant of the phenotype emerging
Dr. Leon Eisenberg, the ‘father’ of ADHD, said just before his death that ADHD ‘is a prime example of a fictitious disease.’ [SEP] David Keirsey // to the practice of medicating children with ADD as "The Great ADD Hoax". His main claim was that children labeled ADHD or ADD, typically, have an SP, or Artisan temperament, meaning concrete in thought and speech/utilitarian in implementing goals. David Keirsey David West Keirsey (; August 31, 1921 – July 30, 2013) was an American psychologist, a professor emeritus at California State University, Fullerton, and the author of several books. In his most popular publications, "Please Understand Me" (1978, co-authored by Marilyn Bates) and the revised and expanded second volume "Please Understand Me II" (1998), he laid out a self-assessed
Dr. Leon Eisenberg, the ‘father’ of ADHD, said just before his death that ADHD ‘is a prime example of a fictitious disease.’ [SEP] Keith Conners // the condition and hanged himself in November 2011 aged 24, after two years of taking Adderall. He believed the true amounts of childhood ADHD were 2-3%. Conners died on July 5, 2017 in Durham, North Carolina, aged 84. Keith Conners Carmen Keith Conners (March 20, 1933 – July 5, 2017) was an American psychologist, best known for establishing the first standards for the diagnosis of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). Carmen Keith Conners was born on March 20, 1933, in Bingham Canyon, Utah, one of three children of Michael Conners, a machinist, and Merle Conners, who worked in a department
Dr. Leon Eisenberg, the ‘father’ of ADHD, said just before his death that ADHD ‘is a prime example of a fictitious disease.’ [SEP] Leon Eisenberg // Leon Eisenberg Leon Eisenberg, (August 8, 1922 – September 15, 2009) was an American child psychiatrist, social psychiatrist and medical educator who "transformed child psychiatry by advocating research into developmental problems" He is credited with a number of "firsts" in medicine and psychiatry - in child psychiatry, autism, and the controversies around autism, randomized clinical trials (RCTs), social medicine, global health, affirmative action, and evidence-based psychiatry. Having retired in 1967 from Johns Hopkins Hospital Department of Child and adolescent psychiatry (he was the chairman of the department after Leo Kanner) and from Harvard Medical School in 1988, he continued as
Dr. Leon Eisenberg, the ‘father’ of ADHD, said just before his death that ADHD ‘is a prime example of a fictitious disease.’ [SEP] Gabor Maté (physician) // in risk. ACEs also exponentially increase the risk of diseases e.g. cancer, high blood pressure, heart disease, etc. and also suicide and early death. He argues that patients should therefore be encouraged to explore their childhoods and the impact on their adult behaviors. Overall, he argues people benefit by taking a holistic approach to their own health. For instance, he has seen people survive supposedly terminal diagnoses by seriously considering their "mind-body unity" and "spiritual unity"; going beyond "the medical model of treatment." He has also spoken about how the rise in bullying, ADHD and other mental disorders in American
The term "Black Friday" originated with the practice of selling off slaves on the day after Thanksgiving. [SEP] Black Friday (shopping) // corner the gold market. When President Grant learned of this manipulation, he ordered the Treasury to release a large supply of gold, which halted the run and caused prices to drop by eighteen percent. Fortunes were made and lost in a single day, and the president's own brother-in-law, Abel Corbin, was ruined. The earliest known use of "Black Friday" to refer to the day after Thanksgiving occurs in the journal, "Factory Management and Maintenance", for November 1951, and again in 1952. Here it referred to the practice of workers calling in sick on the day after Thanksgiving, in order to
The term "Black Friday" originated with the practice of selling off slaves on the day after Thanksgiving. [SEP] Black Friday (shopping) // day or weekend. The earliest evidence of the phrase "Black Friday" applied to the day after Thanksgiving in a shopping context suggests that the term originated in Philadelphia, where it was used to describe the heavy and disruptive pedestrian and vehicle traffic that would occur on the day after Thanksgiving. This usage dates to at least 1961. More than twenty years later, as the phrase became more widespread, a popular explanation became that this day represented the point in the year when retailers begin to turn a profit, thus going from being "in the red" to being "in the black".
The term "Black Friday" originated with the practice of selling off slaves on the day after Thanksgiving. [SEP] Black Friday (shopping) // Black Friday (shopping) Black Friday is an informal name for the Friday following Thanksgiving Day in the United States, which is celebrated on the fourth Thursday of November. The day after Thanksgiving has been regarded as the beginning of America's Christmas shopping season since 1952, although the term "Black Friday" didn't become widely used until more recent decades. Many stores offer highly promoted sales on Black Friday and open very early, such as at midnight, or may even start their sales at some time on Thanksgiving. Black Friday is not an official holiday, but California and some other states observe
The term "Black Friday" originated with the practice of selling off slaves on the day after Thanksgiving. [SEP] Black Friday (shopping) // the holiday season, beginning on the day after Thanksgiving. When this was recorded in the financial records, once-common accounting practices would use red ink to show negative amounts and black ink to show positive amounts. Black Friday, under this theory, is the beginning of the period when retailers would no longer be "in the red", instead taking in the year's profits. The earliest known published reference to this explanation occurs in "The Philadelphia Inquirer" for November 28, 1981. In 2013, an internet rumor alleged that the phrase originated in the American south before the Civil War, from the practice of
The term "Black Friday" originated with the practice of selling off slaves on the day after Thanksgiving. [SEP] Black Friday (shopping) // have a four-day weekend. However, this use does not appear to have caught on. Around the same time, the terms "Black Friday" and "Black Saturday" came to be used by the police in Philadelphia and Rochester to describe the crowds and traffic congestion accompanying the start of the Christmas shopping season. In 1961, the city and merchants of Philadelphia attempted to improve conditions, and a public relations expert recommended rebranding the days, "Big Friday" and "Big Saturday"; but these terms were quickly forgotten. Use of the phrase spread slowly, first appearing in "The New York Times" on November 29, 1975,
The term "Black Friday" originated with the practice of selling off slaves on the day after Thanksgiving. [SEP] Black Friday (shopping) // advertising before Thanksgiving. For this reason, in 1939, President Franklin D. Roosevelt issued a presidential proclamation proclaiming Thanksgiving to be the fourth Thursday in November rather than the last Thursday, meaning in some years one week earlier, in order to lengthen the Christmas shopping season. Most people adopted the President's change, which was later reinforced by an act of Congress, but many continued to celebrate Thanksgiving Day on the traditional date. Some started referring to the new date as Franksgiving. In 2015, Amazon.com held a "Prime Day" event in July and promised better deals than on Black Friday, with repeat
The term "Black Friday" originated with the practice of selling off slaves on the day after Thanksgiving. [SEP] Black Friday (shopping) // there have been attempts by retailers with origins in the United States to introduce a retail "Black Friday" to other countries around the world. In several countries, local retailers have attempted to promote the day to remain competitive with US-based online retailers. For centuries, the adjective "black" has been applied to days upon which calamities occurred. Many events have been described as "Black Friday", although the most significant such event in American History was the Panic of 1869, which occurred when financiers Jay Gould and James Fisk took advantage of their connections with the Grant Administration in an attempt to
The term "Black Friday" originated with the practice of selling off slaves on the day after Thanksgiving. [SEP] Black Friday (shopping) // "The Day After Thanksgiving" as a holiday for state government employees, sometimes in lieu of another federal holiday, such as Columbus Day. Many non-retail employees and schools have both Thanksgiving and the following Friday off, which, along with the following regular weekend, makes it a four-day weekend, thereby increasing the number of potential shoppers. Black Friday has routinely been the busiest shopping day of the year in the United States since 2005, although news reports, which at that time were inaccurate, have described it as the busiest shopping day of the year for a much longer period of time. Similar
The term "Black Friday" originated with the practice of selling off slaves on the day after Thanksgiving. [SEP] Black Friday (shopping) // selling slaves on the day after Thanksgiving. This was debunked by Snopes.com in 2015. The day after Thanksgiving as the unofficial start of the holiday shopping season may be linked together with the idea of Santa Claus parades. Parades celebrating Thanksgiving often include an appearance by Santa at the end of the parade, with the idea that 'Santa has arrived' or 'Santa is just around the corner' because Christmas is always the next major holiday following Thanksgiving. In the late 19th and early 20th centuries, many Santa or Thanksgiving Day parades were sponsored by department stores. These included the Toronto
The term "Black Friday" originated with the practice of selling off slaves on the day after Thanksgiving. [SEP] Black Friday (shopping) // extreme price cuts than Canadian retailers, even for the same international retailer. In the United Kingdom, the term "Black Friday" originated within the Police and NHS to refer to the Friday before Christmas. It is the day when emergency services activate contingency plans to cope with the increase in workload due to many people going out drinking on the last Friday before Christmas. Contingencies can include setting up mobile field hospitals near City Centre nightspots. The term has then been adopted outside those services to refer to the evening and night of the Friday immediately before Christmas, and would now
Judge considers Hammond Ranches grazing permit. [SEP] Timeline of the occupation of the Malheur National Wildlife Refuge // of Grant County, New Mexico, a convicted felon, renounced his federal grazing permit at the conference. The Oregon rancher was absent. Surprising other law enforcement officials, Grant County Sheriff Glenn Palmer made a statement saying that freeing the Hammonds "would be a start" in ending the occupation. On January 25, a man on his way to the occupation was arrested in Hines, Oregon, for driving under the influence of intoxicants and resisting arrest. Armed with a pellet gun, he claimed that he was planning on becoming a bodyguard for Ammon and Ryan Bundy, and also threatened to kill federal agents.
Judge considers Hammond Ranches grazing permit. [SEP] Hammond arson case // ranching in Harney County predates the 1908 establishment of the Malheur National Wildlife Refuge, with some cattle trails, including those used by the Hammond family, dating back to the 1870s. Disputes between cattle ranchers and the federal government over management of the Malheur National Wildlife Refuge have gone on for "generations" and the situation has regularly deteriorated to taunts and threats directed at federal officials from ranchers since at least the early 1970s. In an effort to address concerns of neighboring landowners and interests, the completion of a 15-year management plan for the refuge heavily involved various stakeholders, including ranchers,
Judge considers Hammond Ranches grazing permit. [SEP] Hammond arson case // in its development process. The plan was completed in 2013 and won praise from some area ranchers for its collaborative approach. In June 1994, the Malheur National Wildlife Refuge manager, Forrest Cameron, notified Dwight Hammond that his permit to graze his cattle and grow hay on the refuge was revoked. Two months later, Hammond and his son Steven obstructed the completion of a refuge boundary fence intended to keep their cattle out of the refuge's protected marsh and wetland, prompting their arrest by federal agents. The fence was needed to stop the Hammonds' cattle from moving onto the refuge after
Judge considers Hammond Ranches grazing permit. [SEP] Michael Robert Hogan // the United States Senate on September 12, 1991, and received commission on September 16, 1991. He served as Chief Judge from 1995 to 2002, and took senior status on September 24, 2011. In June 1994, the Malheur National Wildlife Refuge manager notified Dwight Hammond that his permit to graze his cattle and grow hay on the refuge was revoked. Two months later, Hammond and his son Steven obstructed the completion of a refuge boundary fence intended to keep their cattle out of the refuge's protected marsh and wetland, prompting their arrest by federal agents. The fence was needed to stop
Judge considers Hammond Ranches grazing permit. [SEP] Ann Aiken // ruled that the minimum sentences must be followed. Armed militiamen led by Ammon Bundy occupied the Malheur Wildlife Refuge near the Hammonds' ranch in protest of the ruling, demanding that the Hammonds be released and that the hundred-year-old wildlife refuge be given over to local control. The defendants in the case were granted a full Presidential pardon by President Donald J. Trump on July 10, 2018. Judge Aiken made a key decision in the case "Juliana v. United States", a suit brought by 21 youths against the U.S. government stating their rights to a clean environment were violated due to
Judge considers Hammond Ranches grazing permit. [SEP] Michael Robert Hogan // the Hammonds' cattle from moving onto the refuge after the ranchers had repeatedly violated the terms of their special grazing permit, which limited those times when they could move their cattle across refuge property. Officials also reported that Dwight had made death threats against refuge managers in 1986, 1988, 1991, and 1994; and that Steven Hammond also made incendiary remarks against them. In 1999 Steven started a fire, intending to burn off juniper trees and sagebrush, but the fire escaped onto BLM land. The agency reminded him of the required burn permit and that if the fires continued, there would
Judge considers Hammond Ranches grazing permit. [SEP] Grazing rights in Nevada // two miles of water sources he developed." In a similar case to Bundy's, ranchers in 2007 were sued by the Justice Department for trespassing on public domain lands in Nevada. The ranchers were alleged to have repeatedly grazed livestock without federal permits, despite repeated trespass notices from the BLM and the Department of Agriculture's Forest Service. In 2013, the court found in favor of the ranchers for all other charges, including water rights, grazing rights, and all but two livestock trespass charges in "United States v. Wayne Hage". In the ruling, the judge said, "government officials ... entered into a
Judge considers Hammond Ranches grazing permit. [SEP] Occupation of the Malheur National Wildlife Refuge // refuge as well as the releases of Dwight and Steven Hammond. He agreed to meet with the FBI again on the next day, but when the meeting occurred, Bundy left when the agent present declined to negotiate in front of the media. On January 23, the militants hosted a news conference at the refuge, promising news reporters that an Oregon cattle rancher and one from New Mexico would be present to sign papers renouncing their federal grazing permits. Only one rancher, Adrian C. Sewell of Grant County, New Mexico, a convicted felon, renounced his federal grazing permit at the conference.
Judge considers Hammond Ranches grazing permit. [SEP] Grazing rights in Nevada // Bunkerville allotment, and any livestock on that land are there illegally. The Bundy standoff is a 20-year legal dispute between the United States Bureau of Land Management (BLM) and cattle rancher Cliven Bundy in southeastern Nevada over unpaid grazing fees that eventually developed into an armed confrontation between protesters and law enforcement. The dispute began in 1993, when in protest against changes to grazing rules, Bundy declined to renew his permit for cattle grazing on BLM-administered lands near Bunkerville, Nevada. In 1998, Bundy was prohibited from grazing his cattle on the Bunkerville Allotment by the United States District Court for
Judge considers Hammond Ranches grazing permit. [SEP] Reactions to the occupation of the Malheur National Wildlife Refuge // as a peaceful and legal protest has become unlawful. It was instigated by outsiders whose tactics we Oregonians don't agree with. Those individuals illegally occupying the Malheur Wildlife Refuge need to decamp immediately and be held accountable." In a January 4 press release, Harney County Judge Steven Grasty said that "[T]he Refuge is under federal jurisdiction. The County Court will stay engaged within the limits of our legal authority. ... The Hammond family is well respected in Harney County, [the] motivation of the militia groups that have descended on Harney County goes far beyond the troubles of the Hammond family
China to ban smoking at indoor public places. [SEP] Smoking in China // ban of smoking in public places. With an explicitly stated objective of "building smoke-free environments for the sake of enjoying healthy life", the report has received strong support and praise from the Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids, a U.S. health advocacy group based in Washington, D.C. In addition, the report suggested a strong likelihood of success for the implementation of complete public smoking bans in seven major urban areas on the basis of demonstrated widespread popular support for such measures. According to an analysis by the Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids, polling data in the Ministry of Health report revealed: "Overwhelming public
China to ban smoking at indoor public places. [SEP] Smoking in China // in public and working places in the beginning of 2010; smoking may be prohibited in some places and violators may be fined up to 3000 yuan. Yang Tingzhong from Zhejiang University undertook campaigns and project sponsored by Bloomberg Global Initiative to ban smoking in university campuses at a nationwide scale. According to Medical News Today, seven provincial capitals in China are taking steps to ban smoking in workplaces and public places. The seven cities are Tianjin, Chongqing, Shenyang, Harbin, Nanchang, Lanzhou and Shenzhen. Although there are already some smoking bans in places in these cities, government officials have realized that
China to ban smoking at indoor public places. [SEP] Smoking in China // certain public places in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region has been banned from 1 January 2007 under the government's revised Smoking (Public Health) Ordinance (Cap. 371), first enacted in 1982 with several amendments subsequently. The latest amendment enlarges the smoking ban to include indoor workplaces, most public places including restaurants, Internet cafés, public lavatories, beaches and most public parks. Some bars, karaoke parlors, saunas and nightclubs were exempt until 1 July 2009. Smoking bans in lifts, public transport, cinemas, concert halls, airport terminal and escalators had been phased in between 1982 and 1997. The ban in shopping centres, department
China to ban smoking at indoor public places. [SEP] Smoking in China // host the 2010 World Expo, the city of Shanghai had recently heightened its anti-smoking legislation. The Shanghai People's Congress issued the city's first smoking control law in March 2010. The law bans smoking in 12 types of public places including indoor smoking at schools, hospitals, sport stadiums, public transport vehicles and Internet cafes. Anyone caught smoking would first be given a warning and then face a fine of 50 to 200 yuan if they resist. According to Li Zhongyang, the deputy head of the Shanghai Health Promotion Committee, the smoking ban was enacted to protect citizens' health and also promote
China to ban smoking at indoor public places. [SEP] Smoking in China // In light of the passage of national tobacco initiatives and international publicity for the 2008 Summer Olympics, the Beijing city government extended a public smoking ban on May 1, 2008 to include sports venues and all indoor areas of government offices, transport stations, schools and hospitals. The ban had a generally strong impact, with poll results suggesting that a majority of Chinese residents (69% out of over 10000 respondents) are "not only aware of a smoking ban in Beijing, but [95% of respondents] also hope that the authorities promote the move nationwide." According to China Daily News: The Beijing government
China to ban smoking at indoor public places. [SEP] Smoking in China // enforcement is rare to non-existent outside the most highly internationalized cities, such as Shanghai and Beijing. Outside the mainland however, enforcement is strong in the Hong Kong special administrative region. Furthermore, outside the largest cities in China, smoking is considered socially acceptable anywhere at any time, even if it is technically illegal. The Chinese Association on Tobacco Control (中国控制吸烟协会 "Zhōngguó kòngzhì xīyān xiéhuì") is engaged in tobacco control by members of the voluntary sector, including academic, social and mass organizations, as strong enforcement of existing tobacco control laws is not supported by the Chinese Government. Yang Gonghuan, deputy director of
China to ban smoking at indoor public places. [SEP] Smoking in China // support for the enactment of totally smoke-free public spaces ... support for total smoking bans exceeds support for partial smoking bans ... Among smokers, the polls found that 93.5% support a total ban on smoking in all schools, 75.5% support a total ban in hospitals, and 94.3% support a total ban in all public transport. Among non-smokers, 95.1% support a total ban in all schools, 78.1% support a total ban in hospitals and over 93.8% support a ban in public transport. Some 70.6% of non-smokers support some type of smoking ban in bars and restaurants. Although China still lags behind
China to ban smoking at indoor public places. [SEP] Smoking in China // many countries in implementing tobacco control policy, the Ministry of Health's May 20 initiative helped to establish more unified smoking controls and codify public health authority at broad administrative levels. From 2009, Projects sponsored by Bloomberg Initiative and directed by Yang Tingzhong were designed as the first program to prohibit all forms of smoking in University campuses in China. The Ministry's "Decision" formally requests local governmental units to "set up multi-agency FCTC Implementation Leading Small Groups" to assist with regional strategies of enforcement, with the explicit goal that: "by the year 2010, all health administration offices, both military and non-military,
China to ban smoking at indoor public places. [SEP] Smoking in China // new daily average [after the extended smoking ban] was less than half of what was reported in the first four months of this year, when the city's firefighters had to put out 325 fires caused by cigarette butts, or 2.7 per day." In 2007, Guangzhou and Jiangmen became Guangdong's first two cities for experimental enforcement of total smoking ban at some public places. The public places for smoking ban included restaurants, entertainment outlets, schools, supermarkets, and governmental offices. However, by March 2010, the Guangzhou Municipal People's Congress prepared to lift the smoking ban in work places, including offices, conference rooms
China to ban smoking at indoor public places. [SEP] Smoking in China // public approval of smoking bans among residents of urban areas. Various health experts, activists, and public advocacy groups regard the Chinese government's escalating efforts toward tobacco policy as "surely good news for the country's smoking control progress." Notable support also exists within the sphere of representative politics; allegedly, political advisors of the CPPCC have even gone so far as to call for smoke-free legislative sessions. However, widespread apathy and tacit acceptance toward smoking policy are likely to predominate within large portions of the Chinese population. China has a relatively low social disapproval rate of smoking—according to the International Tobacco Control
Abortionists have reduced our black population by more than 25 percent since 1973. [SEP] Maafa 21 // birth control made more available to blacks. It is certainly true that a higher percentage of African American women have abortions–about 40% of the pregnancies of black women end as induced abortion. Using data from 2009, black women had 477 abortions for every 1,000 live births, while Hispanics had 195 abortions per 1,000 live births, and whites had 140 abortions per 1,000 live births. Critics have said that this much higher rate of abortion among African Americans comes directly from a correspondingly high rate of unplanned pregnancies, which is in turn caused by very poor access to birth control among
Abortionists have reduced our black population by more than 25 percent since 1973. [SEP] Maafa 21 // Adolf Hitler appears in the film, presented as one of Sanger's "natural allies", and aborted babies are compared to Holocaust victims. The film states that abortion has reduced the black population in the United States by 25 percent. It discusses some of Planned Parenthood's origins (formerly the American Birth Control League), attributing to it a "150-year-old goal of exterminating the black population." The film features conservative African Americans, including politician Stephen Broden, and Martin Luther King, Jr.'s niece Alveda King, who claims that Sanger targeted black people. The film was released on June 15, 2009, and the premiere screening was
Abortionists have reduced our black population by more than 25 percent since 1973. [SEP] Abortion in the United States // have an abortion. In 2012, New York City reported abortions (31,328) outnumber live births (24,758) for black children. Black and Hispanic abortions combined (54,245), account for 73% of the total abortions in the city in 2012, according to a report by the New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene, Office of Vital Statistics. In 2004, the rates of abortion by ethnicity in the U.S. were 50 abortions per 1,000 black women, 28 abortions per 1,000 Hispanic women, and 11 abortions per 1,000 white women. A1998 study revealed that in 1987 to 1988, women reported the following as their
Abortionists have reduced our black population by more than 25 percent since 1973. [SEP] Black genocide // genocide, expanding on their earlier stance regarding family planning. However, most minority groups stood in favor of the decriminalization of abortion; the "New York Times" reported in 1970 that more non-white women than white women died as a result of "crude, illegal abortions". Legalized abortion was expected to produce fewer deaths of the mother. A poll in Buffalo, New York, conducted by the National Organization for Women (NOW), found that 75% of blacks supported the decriminalization of abortion. After the January 1973 "Roe v. Wade" Supreme Court decision made abortion legal in the US, "Jet" magazine publisher Robert E. Johnson
Abortionists have reduced our black population by more than 25 percent since 1973. [SEP] Black liberalism // commentators have addressed with varying opinions. According to the Center of Disease Control, African-American women accounted for 36% of all abortions in 2009. African-American conservatives have criticized the disparity, Clenard H. Childress calling it "black genocide" and niece of Martin Luther King, Jr. Alveda King questioning how his "dream" could be sustained with what she called killing the child, adding, "Every aborted baby is like a slave in the womb of his or her mother. The mother decides his or her fate." There has been criticism applied to the disparity between African-Americans and Caucasians on welfare, though some African-American commentators
Abortionists have reduced our black population by more than 25 percent since 1973. [SEP] Black genocide // and 1940s to 59% at the end of the 1950s, and rose further to 64% in the mid-1960s. In mid-1973 news stories revealed the forced sterilization of poor black women and children, paid for by federal funds. Two girls of the Relf family in Mississippi, deemed mentally incompetent at ages 12 and 14, and also 18-year-old welfare recipient Nial Ruth Cox of North Carolina, were prominent cases of involuntary sterilization. "Jet" magazine presented the story under the headline "Genocide". Critics said these stories were publicized by activists against legal abortion. African Americans pushed for equal participation in US military service
Abortionists have reduced our black population by more than 25 percent since 1973. [SEP] Abortion in the United States // rates tend to be higher among minority women in the U.S. In 2000-2001, due to lower access to health care and contraception, the rates among black and Hispanic women were 49 per 1,000 and 33 per 1,000, respectively, vs. 13 per 1,000 among non-Hispanic white women. Note that this figure includes all women of reproductive age, including women that are not pregnant. In other words, these abortion rates reflect the rate at which U.S. women of reproductive age have an abortion each year. While White women obtain 60% of all abortions, African American women are three times more likely to
Abortionists have reduced our black population by more than 25 percent since 1973. [SEP] Unintended pregnancy // of 5 to 6 abortions per 1,000 women. US birth rates declined in the 1970s. Factors that are likely to have led to this decline include: The introduction of the birth control pill in 1960, and its subsequent rapid increase in popularity; the completion of legalization of contraceptives in the 1960s and early 1970s; the introduction of federal funding for family planning in the 1960s and Title X in 1970; increased career and educational gains for women and its consequence of increased opportunity costs; and the legalization of abortion, which was completed in 1973. The decline in the birth rate
Abortionists have reduced our black population by more than 25 percent since 1973. [SEP] Black genocide // the 20th century, "backstreet" abortion providers in black neighborhoods were also sought out by poor white women who wanted to rid themselves of a pregnancy. Abortion providers who were black were prosecuted much more often than white ones. In the Tennessee General Assembly in 1967, Dorothy Lavinia Brown, MD, the first African-American woman surgeon and a state assemblywoman, was the first American to sponsor a proposed bill to fully legalize abortion. Though this early effort failed, abortion was made legal in various US states from 1967 to 1972. During this time the Black Panthers printed pamphlets describing abortion as black
Abortionists have reduced our black population by more than 25 percent since 1973. [SEP] Black genocide // "abortionists have done more to get rid of generations and cripple others than all of the years of slavery and lynching." In 2009, American pro-life activists in Georgia revived the idea that a black genocide was in progress. A strong response from this strategy was observed among blacks, and in 2010 more focus was placed on describing abortion as black genocide. White pro-life activist Mark Crutcher produced a documentary called "Maafa 21" which criticizes Planned Parenthood and its founder Margaret Sanger, and describes various historic aspects of eugenics, birth control and abortion with the aim of convincing the viewer that
This Blood Test Could Help Predict If A Pregnancy Is At Risk For Premature Labor [SEP] Preterm birth // rupture the membranes or bleed preterm. The use of the fibronectin test and ultrasonography improves the diagnostic accuracy and reduces false-positive diagnosis. While treatments to arrest early labor where there is progressive cervical dilatation and effacement will not be effective to gain sufficient time to allow the fetus to grow and mature further, it may defer delivery sufficiently to allow the mother to be brought to a specialized center that is equipped and staffed to handle preterm deliveries. In a hospital setting women are hydrated via intravenous infusion (as dehydration can lead to premature uterine contractions). Severely premature infants may
This Blood Test Could Help Predict If A Pregnancy Is At Risk For Premature Labor [SEP] Preterm birth // preterm labor. Specifically, the PPV, or positive predictive value, of the tests were 76%, 29%, and 30% for PAMG-1, fFN and CL, respectively (P < 0.01). Fetal fibronectin (fFN) has become an important biomarker—the presence of this glycoprotein in the cervical or vaginal secretions indicates that the border between the chorion and deciduas has been disrupted. A positive test indicates an increased risk of preterm birth, and a negative test has a high predictive value. It has been shown that only 1% of women in questionable cases of preterm labor delivered within the next week when the test was negative.
This Blood Test Could Help Predict If A Pregnancy Is At Risk For Premature Labor [SEP] Fetal fibronectin // A negative result means that there is little possibility of preterm labor within the next 7 to 10 days, and the test can be repeated weekly for women who remain at high risk. A negative fetal fibronectin says that a patient has less than 5% chance of giving birth in the next two weeks. A positive result is a less reliable indicator that a woman will go into preterm labor. A systematic review of the medical literature found that fetal fibronectin is a good predictor of spontaneous preterm birth before cervical dilation. The test may be run on patients between
This Blood Test Could Help Predict If A Pregnancy Is At Risk For Premature Labor [SEP] Placental alpha microglobulin-1 (PAMG-1) // (ROM) in non-laboring pregnant women presenting with unexplainable vaginal leakage. A small sub-segment of these investigations, however, have evaluated the ability of PAMG-1 to assess the risk of preterm delivery in pregnant patients presenting with signs or symptoms of preterm labor. The results of these studies suggested that a test for PAMG-1 that is more sensitive than the one investigated initially may prove to be a very powerful predictor of imminent spontaneous preterm delivery in patients with threatened preterm labor. Such a device was soon developed (commercially known as the PartoSure test) and was initially evaluated in a multicenter, multinational
This Blood Test Could Help Predict If A Pregnancy Is At Risk For Premature Labor [SEP] Pregnancy // to 15 days after fertilization. A quantitative blood test can determine approximately the date the embryo was conceived because HCG doubles every 36 to 48 hours. A single test of progesterone levels can also help determine how likely a fetus will survive in those with a threatened miscarriage (bleeding in early pregnancy). Obstetric ultrasonography can detect fetal abnormalities, detect multiple pregnancies, and improve gestational dating at 24 weeks. The resultant estimated gestational age and due date of the fetus are slightly more accurate than methods based on last menstrual period. Ultrasound is used to measure the nuchal fold in order
This Blood Test Could Help Predict If A Pregnancy Is At Risk For Premature Labor [SEP] Contraction stress test // monitoring. Uterine activity is monitored by tocodynamometer. The CST is used for its high negative predictive value. A negative result is highly predictive of fetal wellbeing and tolerance of labor. The test has a poor positive predictive value with false-positive results in as many as 30% of cases. A positive CST indicates high risk of fetal death due to hypoxia and is a contraindication to labor. Patient's obstetricians usually consider operative delivery in such situations. This "stress test" is usually not performed if there are any signs of premature birth, placenta praevia, vasa praevia, cervical incompetence, multiple gestation, previous classic
This Blood Test Could Help Predict If A Pregnancy Is At Risk For Premature Labor [SEP] Beginning of pregnancy controversy // cause breastfeeding to be considered an abortion method. A protein called early pregnancy factor (EPF) is detectable in a woman's blood within 48 hours of ovulation if fertilization has occurred. However, testing for EPF is time consuming and expensive; most early pregnancy tests detect human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG), a hormone that is not secreted until after implantation. Defining pregnancy as beginning at implantation thus makes pregnancy a condition that can be easily tested. The distinction in ethical value between existing persons and potential future persons has been questioned. Subsequently, it has been argued that contraception and even the decision not
This Blood Test Could Help Predict If A Pregnancy Is At Risk For Premature Labor [SEP] Labor induction // shown a slight increase in risk of infant mortality for births in the 41st and particularly 42nd week of gestation, as well as a higher risk of injury to the mother and child. Due to the increasing risks of advanced gestation, induction appears to reduce the risk for caesarean delivery after 41 weeks' gestation and possibly earlier. Inducing labor before 39 weeks in the absence of a medical indication (such as hypertension, IUGR, or pre-eclampsia) increases the risk of complications of prematurity including difficulties with respiration, infection, feeding, jaundice, neonatal intensive care unit admissions, and perinatal death. Inducing labour after
This Blood Test Could Help Predict If A Pregnancy Is At Risk For Premature Labor [SEP] Pregnancy test // Pregnancy test A pregnancy test attempts to determine whether or not a woman is pregnant. Indicative markers are found in blood and urine, and pregnancy tests require sampling one of these substances. The first of these markers to be discovered, human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG), was discovered in 1930 to be produced by the syncytiotrophoblast cells of the fertilised ova (eggs). While hCG is a reliable marker of pregnancy, it cannot be detected until after implantation; this results in false negatives if the test is performed during the very early stages of pregnancy. HCG can be detected via blood 8 days
This Blood Test Could Help Predict If A Pregnancy Is At Risk For Premature Labor [SEP] Prenatal testing // level 2 ultrasound, can detect about 97% of neural tube defects such as spina bifida . Ultrasound results may also show "soft signs," such as an Echogenic intracardiac focus or a Choroid plexus cyst, which are usually normal, but can be associated with an increased risk for chromosome abnormalities. Other screening tests, such as the Quad test, can also have false positives and false negatives. Even when the Quad results are positive (or, to be more precise, when the Quad test yields a score that shows at least a 1 in 270 risk of abnormality), usually the pregnancy is normal,
US lawmaker opposes drilling permit work during shutdown. [SEP] Bill Cassidy // Preservation Act to terminate the moratorium on deep water drilling and require the Secretary of the Interior to ensure the safety of deep water drilling operations. He worked to ensure that money from the Gulf Coast Restoration Trust Fund, which was established in the wake of the BP oil spill, is spent on coastal restoration efforts. In December 2010, Cassidy voted to extend the tax cuts enacted during the administration of President George W. Bush. He voted for the Constitutional Balanced Budget Amendment of 2011. In May 2013, Cassidy introduced the Energy Consumers Relief Act of 2013 () to require
US lawmaker opposes drilling permit work during shutdown. [SEP] Back to Work Coalition // and Louisiana state leaders over planning and drilling permits has come under tough scrutiny by those who agree and those who disagree with the existence of a permitorium. Democrats on the House Committee of Natural Resources, in particular, suggest that there is no such thing. Others agree that a permitorium is in fact taking place, but argue that the safety of oil-rig workers and the well-being of the environment are too important to risk with pre-mature drilling. Rep. Edward Markey, D-Mass., was quoted saying, "There is not a de facto moratorium, only a Republican moratorium on the facts. This hearing
US lawmaker opposes drilling permit work during shutdown. [SEP] United States federal government shutdown of 2013 // wrong to attack the ranger publicly — "a public servant, handling a bad situation with much more professionalism than the self-important Neugebauer displayed", and a Congressional ethics complaint was proposed by a Congressional watch group. Neugebauer has said that his words were taken out of context. David McCumber, the Washington bureau chief of Hearst Newspapers, said Neugebauer had shown "staggering hypocrisy" in attacking a ranger for enforcing the closure the congressman had helped create. At Acadia National Park, a hiker who was violating the closure order fell and injured her knee on October 5. All four rangers on duty were
US lawmaker opposes drilling permit work during shutdown. [SEP] Back to Work Coalition // to drill. This led to what many Louisiana lawmakers and workers now refer to as the "de facto" moratorium, or "permitorium,"on energy production in the Outer Continental Shelf of the Gulf Coast. This "de facto" moratorium is what Angelle's Back to Work Coalition seeks to combat. The coalition, Angelle says, serves to "identify the obstacles standing in the way of the issuance of new permits" and keep "working toward solutions." Angelle believes that "the deepwater drilling moratorium may have been lifted, but the federal regulatory challenges continue to delay the return of new drilling in the Gulf. It is time
US lawmaker opposes drilling permit work during shutdown. [SEP] Pat McCrory // at all levels of our economy, not just the energy sector." Once the state completes its regulations, the law will allow for permits to be issued without additional approval. The bill also criminalizes the disclosure of chemicals or substances used by oil and gas companies during the fracking process. The legislation also bans local governments from interfering with oil and gas exploration, development, and production activities. McCrory issued his first veto as governor in August 2013, of a bill that would have required people applying for welfare benefits to pass a drug test. He later also vetoed a bill that
US lawmaker opposes drilling permit work during shutdown. [SEP] Duncan D. Hunter // against an amendment offered by Justin Amash to rein in warrantless domestic surveillance conducted by the NSA. In October 2013 Hunter was the only representative from San Diego County to vote against the bill ending the nation's 16-day partial government shutdown, explaining that he voted against it because it did not reduce spending or the national debt. At a town-hall-style meeting in March 2017, Hunter was confronted by protesters. Before the crowd, Hunter asserted that the American intelligence community was filled with "seditious Obama folks" who "hate Donald Trump as much as you [those at the meeting] do" and are
US lawmaker opposes drilling permit work during shutdown. [SEP] Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2014 // the Senate would not pass any of the regular appropriation bills, the House passed the Continuing Appropriations Resolution, 2014 (H.J.Res 59), which would appropriate money to operate the federal government until December 15, 2013. The Senate rejected this measure as well, leading to the United States federal government shutdown of 2013. The National Electrical Contractors Association (NECA) was one of the lobbyist groups involved in the creation of the bill. On their website, NECA announced that they had lobbied moderate Republicans to prevent Rep. Steve King (R-IA) from offering an amendment to the bill that would "prohibit the application of
US lawmaker opposes drilling permit work during shutdown. [SEP] Political positions of John McCain // he had changed his views because of high gas prices and dependence on imports, he endorsed legislation that would give each coastal state the power to determine whether to allow offshore drilling. In May 2017, McCain joined two other Republicans in voting with Democrats against the repeal of Obama's regulations on drilling in public lands. "Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.) unexpectedly voted no against a motion to proceed with consideration of the resolution, along with GOP Sens. Susan Collins (Maine) and Lindsey O. Graham (S.C.)." McCain generally opposed drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, but did vote in favor of
US lawmaker opposes drilling permit work during shutdown. [SEP] Nancy Pelosi // She has also voted to remove an amendment that would allow for oil and gas exploration in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. Pelosi has blocked efforts to revive offshore oil drilling in protected areas, reasoning that offshore drilling could lead to an increase in dependence on fossil fuels. Pelosi opposed U.S. intervention in the 1991 Gulf War. Pelosi stands in favor of increased background checks for potential gun owners, as well as the banning of assault weapons. In February 2013, she called for the "Boldest possible move" on gun control, similar to a stance made just weeks earlier by former
US lawmaker opposes drilling permit work during shutdown. [SEP] Mike Lee (American politician) // was among six Republican senators, Jeff Flake, Pat Toomey, Rand Paul, David Perdue, and Ben Sasse, as well as Bernie Sanders, that voted against a $854 billion spending bill, meant to avoid another government shutdown. Said bill included funding for the departments of Defense, Health and Human Services, Labor and Education. In 2011, Mike Lee voted to limit the EPA's ability to regulate greenhouse gas emissions. In 2013, he voted to make it harder for Congress to put a price on carbon through a point of order opposing a carbon tax or a fee on carbon emissions. The measure did
Planned Parenthood funding in Texas at stake in hearing. [SEP] Maternal healthcare in Texas // to 8.4% in the counties with Planned Parenthood affiliates. In addition to the Women's Health Program, from September 2010 to August 2011, the Texas Department of State Health Services allocated $49.3 million in funding to private, public, and Planned Parenthood affiliated clinics through Title X, V, and XX funding to provide family planning services. In September 2011, preceding the exclusion of programs from WHP, the state of Texas reduced its family planning funding from $111.0 million to $37.9 million through the removal of Title V and Title XX block grants. The funds were re-allocated away from family planning providers to
Planned Parenthood funding in Texas at stake in hearing. [SEP] Texas Alliance for Life // the state's Medicaid program." In 2015, Pojman celebrated the Texas Legislature's passage of legislation laws that the group had pushed for to expel Planned Parenthood from a joint state-federal cancer screening program "and cut off the last bit of taxpayer money the organization received." Planned Parenthood clinics that had previous received cancer screening funds under the program were already barred from performing abortions." Pojman supported Texas's highly controversial proposed "fetal remains" regulation, which sought to compel the "cremation or interment of aborted or miscarried fetuses." The group has often clashed with another Texas anti-abortion group, the Texas Right to Life
Planned Parenthood funding in Texas at stake in hearing. [SEP] Texas Alliance for Life // 2013) that imposed targeted regulation of abortion providers, leading to the closure more than two dozen clinics across Texas. The legislation was struck down as unconstitutional by the U.S. Supreme Court in "Whole Woman's Health v. Hellerstedt" in 2016. After the ruling, the Texas Alliance for Life shifted its focus to pushing for "increasing funding to the state's Alternatives to Abortion program." The group has pushed for the defunding of Planned Parenthood. In the 2012 session, Pojman said the group's top priority was to "'continue to defund Planned Parenthood' by banning health providers affiliated with abortion providers from participating in
Planned Parenthood funding in Texas at stake in hearing. [SEP] Texas Policy Evaluation Project // E. (2016). Effect of removal of Planned Parenthood from the Texas Women’s Health Program. "New England Journal of Medicine", 374(9), 853–860. http://doi.org/10.1056/NEJMsa1511902 White, K., Carroll, E., & Grossman, D. (2015). Complications from first-trimester aspiration abortion: a systematic review of the literature. "Contraception", 92(5), 422–438. http://doi.org/10.1016/j.contraception.2015.07.013 White, K., Grossman, D., Hopkins, K., & Potter, J. E. (2012). Cutting family planning in Texas. "New England Journal of Medicine", 367(13), 1179–1181. http://doi.org/10.1056/Nejmp1207920 White, K., Hopkins, K., Aiken, A. R. A., Stevenson, A. J., Hubert, C., Grossman, D., & Potter, J. E. (2015). The impact of reproductive health legislation on family planning clinic services
Planned Parenthood funding in Texas at stake in hearing. [SEP] Texas Policy Evaluation Project // in Texas. "American Journal of Public Health", 105(5), 851–8. http://doi.org/10.2105/AJPH.2014.302515 White, K., Potter, J. E., Stevenson, A. J., Fuentes, L., Hopkins, K., & Grossman, D. (2016). Women’s knowledge of and support for abortion restrictions in Texas: findings from a statewide representative survey. "Perspectives on Sexual and Reproductive Health", 48(4). http://doi.org/10.1363/48e8716 Woo, C. J., Alamgir, H., & Potter, J. E. (2016). Women’s experiences after Planned Parenthood’s exclusion from a family planning program in Texas. "Contraception", 93(4), 298–302. http://doi.org/10.1016/j.contraception.2015.12.004 Texas Policy Evaluation Project The Texas Policy Evaluation Project, or TxPEP, began in the fall of 2011 with the purpose of documenting and
Planned Parenthood funding in Texas at stake in hearing. [SEP] Planned Parenthood // to Planned Parenthood for the provision of other medical services allows other funds to be reallocated for abortions. A coalition of national and local pro-life groups have lobbied federal and state governments to stop funding Planned Parenthood. As a result, federal and state legislators have proposed legislation to reduce funding levels. Eight statesAlabama, Arkansas, Indiana, Kansas, Louisiana, New Hampshire, Ohio, and Utahhave enacted such proposals. In some cases, the courts have overturned such actions, citing conflict with federal or state laws; in others the federal executive branch has provided funding in lieu of the states. In some states, Planned Parenthood
Planned Parenthood funding in Texas at stake in hearing. [SEP] War on Women // she called "vicious and inappropriate". Several Democrats used the phrase "War on Women" to criticize the Republican Party after House Republicans passed legislation to cut off funding for Planned Parenthood in February 2011. Texas, Indiana and Kansas have passed legislation in an effort to defund the organization. Arizona, Ohio and New Hampshire are considering similar legislation. In Texas, lawmakers reduced funds for family planning from $111M to $37M. The future of the Women's Health Program in Texas, which receives 90% of its funding from the federal government, is unclear. The Indiana legislature passed a bill restricting Medicaid funds for Planned
Planned Parenthood funding in Texas at stake in hearing. [SEP] Stuart Bowen // General, Bowen is charged with preventing, detecting, and deterring fraud, waste, and abuse in the Texas Health and Human Services System. On October 22, 2015, Bowen accused Planned Parenthood of misconduct and informed them all of the state's Planned Parenthood affiliates were being dropped as a Medicaid health care provider. He cited videos showing misconduct and sent investigators with letters to Planned Parenthood offices in San Antonio, Dallas, and the Houston area, requesting records. His letters cited the authority of Health and Human Services Commission to investigate allegations of potential fraud involving Medicaid payments. Bowen was forced to resign by
Planned Parenthood funding in Texas at stake in hearing. [SEP] Maternal healthcare in Texas // March 2012, discontinued federal funding for the WHP. The WHP was then replaced with a program that was 100% funded by revenue from the state of Texas. The exclusion of Planned Parenthood clinics from the WHP was found to be associated with a reduced use of contraception by clients. After the exclusion of Planned Parenthood clinics from the WHP, the claims in Planned Parenthood clinics for long-acting reversible contraception (LARC) reduced by 35.5% and the claims for injectable contraceptives reduced by 31.1%. After the exclusion, there was also found to be an increase in childbirth covered under Medicaid from 7.0%
Planned Parenthood funding in Texas at stake in hearing. [SEP] Maternal healthcare in Texas // afford contraception, and as a result, reduced access to IUDs and implants for patients. Clinics also began to reduce their service hours. With the loss of funding, clinics lost their participation in the 340B drug-pricing program, which had reduced contraception costs from 50 – 80%. Clinics also lost their exemption status from a Texas law requiring parental consent for provision of family planning services to adolescents. Family planning organizations reported a 41–92% reduction in clients after the reduction and reallocation of family planning funding. The changes in family planning funding and exclusion of Planned Parenthood clinics from the WHP did
VA will provide in-home care for Iraq veteran. [SEP] Veterans Health Administration // from previous conflicts. All community based Vet Centers provide readjustment counseling, outreach services and referral services to help veterans make a satisfying post-war readjustment to civilian life. Services are also available for their family members for military related issues. Vet Centers are staffed with small multidisciplinary teams some of whom are combat veterans themselves. The Operation Enduring Freedom/Operation Iraqi Freedom/Operation New Dawn (OEF/OIF/OND) Care Management Team helps returning service members achieve a smooth transition of health care services. A specialized OEF/OIF/OND care management team provides case management and care coordination for all severely ill, injured and impaired combat veterans, including
VA will provide in-home care for Iraq veteran. [SEP] Independent Living Program // into ILP does NOT affect any benefits the veteran is receiving from VA or the Social Security Administration. Enrollment is limited to 2,700 eligible veterans annually. Once the veteran has been identified as qualifying for the ILP, an evaluation of the veteran's independent living needs will be conducted. The VRC assigns a VA consultant to conduct an Assessment of Needs at the home of the veteran. The Assessment of Needs is used by the VRC to create an Individualized Independent Living Plan (IILP). Based on the amount required to fulfill the IILP, the IILP is either approved at the Local
VA will provide in-home care for Iraq veteran. [SEP] National Coalition for Homeless Veterans // satisfactory performance and congressional appropriations. The VA has a large branch in New York State that offer a wide variety of programs and resources for homeless veterans in the state. Health Care for Homeless Veterans (HCHV) is the central program which provides extensive support such as supported housing systems, physical and psychiatric exams, Drop-In-Centers, treatment, referrals and other services. Over 135 HCHV sites are operating in New York State currently, making it the largest arm of the NYSVA. Domiciliary Care for Homeless Veterans (DCHV) is the next largest branch and offers its services to homeless veterans who suffered some health
VA will provide in-home care for Iraq veteran. [SEP] United States House Veterans' Affairs Subcommittee on Health // centers, nursing homes, hundreds of community-based outpatient clinics organized into service networks located throughout the nation, now caring for an estimated 5.5 million veterans. Recent hearings by the Subcommittee on Health have explored important matters such as the adequacy of the Veteran's Health Administration's health care budget request; veterans access to health care in rural areas of the United States; VA's Polytrauma System of Care as well as the VA's capacity to adequately treat Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI); Gulf War Exposures, Women and Minority Veterans' issues; VA's long-term care program; and the Vet Center program and services. United States House
VA will provide in-home care for Iraq veteran. [SEP] Pets for Vets // life. Pets for Vets helps military veterans reclaim normalcy in their lives through companion dogs. Each companion dog is rescued in connection with local animal rescue groups. They are then given basic obedience training and any additional training that will help them assimilate into their new lives and then finally placed in their "forever" home. Estimates that anywhere from one in eight to one in five of all Iraq war veterans have some degree of PTSD and two thirds of those who screened positive for PTSD are not receiving treatment. People who suffer from PTSD experience anxiety, depression, sleeplessness, flashbacks,
VA will provide in-home care for Iraq veteran. [SEP] National Coalition for Homeless Veterans // problem but do not need to be hospitalized for an extended period of time. In addition to these programs, the NYSVA gives over 17 billion dollars a year to disabled veterans in need, which becomes the primary source of income for many veterans and enables them to combat homelessness. Three of the smaller programs available for homeless veterans are Inpatient and Outpatient Health Care, Readjustment Counseling Centers, and Outreach. Inpatient and Outpatient Health Care is simply the VA centers providing health services for veterans in-house. The Outpatient portion is provided by hospitals and clinics that can provide veterans out of
VA will provide in-home care for Iraq veteran. [SEP] Ohio Department of Veterans Services // in 1888 to care for veterans of the American Civil War. The home in Georgetown is much newer, having been erected in 2003. There are a total of 767 beds maintained between the two homes. The Ohio Veterans Bonus awards bonuses to Ohio veterans of $100 a month to those veterans who served during the eligible periods in the Persian Gulf theater, or in the Iraq or Afghanistan theaters, up to a maximum of $1,000. For veterans who served in other parts of the world during these times, the payment is $50 a month up to a $500. Veterans medically
VA will provide in-home care for Iraq veteran. [SEP] Iraq Veterans Against the War // Immigration and Refugee Protection Act, which would provide legal sanctuary for U.S. war resisters. Iraq Veterans Against the War Iraq Veterans Against the War (IVAW) is an advocacy group of formerly active-duty United States military personnel, Iraq War veterans, Afghanistan War veterans, and other veterans who have served since the September 11, 2001 attacks who were opposed to the U.S. military invasion and occupation in Iraq from 2003–2011. The organization advocated immediate withdrawal of all Coalition forces in Iraq, and reparations paid to the Iraqi people. It also provides support services for returning veterans to include health care and mental
VA will provide in-home care for Iraq veteran. [SEP] Veterans Health Administration // the U.S. Department of Defense Military Health System of which it is not a part. The VHA division has more employees than all other elements of the VA combined. The first Federal agency to provide medical care to veterans was the Naval Home in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. The home was created in 1812 and was followed by the creation of Soldiers Home in 1853 and St. Elizabeth's Hospital in 1855. Congress created the National Home for Disabled Volunteer Soldiers in 1865 in response to the high number of Civil War casualties. These homes were initially intended to be room and board
VA will provide in-home care for Iraq veteran. [SEP] Veterans Health Administration // care includes VA's Skilled Home Health Care Services (SHHC) and Homemakers and Home Health Aide Services (H/HHA). The Department of Veterans Affairs' Office of Patient Care Services has a Primary Care Program Office that has implemented a new patient-centered medical home (PCMH) model at VHA primary care sites. This PCMH model is referred to as Patient Aligned Care Teams (PACT). PAC Teams provide accessible, patient-centered care and are managed by primary care providers with the active involvement of other clinical and non-clinical staff. Veteran patients will be at the center of a "teamlet," which will include a primary care provider,
Hillary Clinton was forced to cancel a campaign event after a video showed her making lizard-like “bizarre eye movements” that prove she’s suffering the lingering effects of head trauma. [SEP] Mike Diva // salute amid swastikas and ultimately transforming into an earth-destroying robot. The video was shot over a month and a half with virtually no budget and stars the cosplayer and wig stylist known as Sushi Monster. Diva talked about the video when interviewed with KABC-TV. On August 11, 2016, Diva released a video poking fun of Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton for the Super Deluxe channel. The video depicted a fictionalized Clinton attempting to connect with the millennial generation by various internet memes such as Dat Boi, Damn Daniel, and Nyan Cat, as well as performing The Dab and telling her
Hillary Clinton was forced to cancel a campaign event after a video showed her making lizard-like “bizarre eye movements” that prove she’s suffering the lingering effects of head trauma. [SEP] Hillary Clinton 2008 presidential primary campaign // answer music video, "Hott4Hill", that earned national media attention for its sexually ambiguous declaration of support for Hillary Clinton's presidential bid. In both cases, the videos were created and produced independently of the Obama and Clinton campaigns. In December 2007 satirical site 23/6 produced two videos "against" Clinton by a purported "SwiftKids for Truth" that made fun of viral videos and negative ads in general. In January 2008, the Clinton campaign disseminated a video targeting the 18- to 29-year-old demographic in hopes of attracting voters away from Obama. According to a "Newsweek" blogger, Andrew Romano, the ad was created by
Hillary Clinton was forced to cancel a campaign event after a video showed her making lizard-like “bizarre eye movements” that prove she’s suffering the lingering effects of head trauma. [SEP] Mike Diva // supporters to "Pokémon Go to the polls". The video was said to be paid for by "Hillary for America", although that wasn't the case. In an interview with Creativity, Diva explained that the purpose of his video was to show that "Hillary is just kind of a dorky mom, and it's so hilariously cringey when she tries to appeal to a younger audience,". Diva has directed commercials for clients including Halo Top Creamery, Yelp, Microsoft, Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (LA Metro), GSN, and others, with celebrities including Danny Trejo and Steve Aoki. Diva's dystopian robot nightmare Halo Top
Hillary Clinton was forced to cancel a campaign event after a video showed her making lizard-like “bizarre eye movements” that prove she’s suffering the lingering effects of head trauma. [SEP] Palmer Luckey // a billboard campaign displaying 2016 presidential candidate Hillary Clinton with the caption "Too Big To Jail". This caused a number of developers to temporarily cancel plans to support Oculus, including Scruta Games, which announced it would cancel Oculus's support in their games unless Luckey stepped down. Scruta Games then reversed itself and announced they would resume work on Oculus Touch support, announcing it had "failed to find any evidence backing up the "Daily Beast"s claim that Luckey paid for hate speech". The developers of Newton VR, Tomorrow Today Labs, said they would not support the Oculus touch as long as
Hillary Clinton was forced to cancel a campaign event after a video showed her making lizard-like “bizarre eye movements” that prove she’s suffering the lingering effects of head trauma. [SEP] Hillary Clinton's tenure as Secretary of State // glasses (instead of her usual contact lens), which upon closer examination were seen to have Fresnel prisms attached to them, likely to counteract lingering blurred or double vision from her concussion. Use of special glasses was confirmed by the State Department, which said, "She'll be wearing these glasses instead of her contacts for a period of time because of lingering issues stemming from her concussion." On January 27, "60 Minutes" aired a joint interview with Obama and Clinton. The interview was Obama's idea and was the first he had done with a member of his administration. In it, Obama consistently
Hillary Clinton was forced to cancel a campaign event after a video showed her making lizard-like “bizarre eye movements” that prove she’s suffering the lingering effects of head trauma. [SEP] Hillary Clinton 2008 presidential primary campaign // God, I hope I'm going to be OK when I get out of this helicopter or when I get out of his tank.'" When spokesman Howard Wolfson was asked about her remarks, he said that she "misspoke". CBS News reported that hundreds of thousands of viewers had by then seen video of the 1996 event that offers evidence of Clinton's exaggeration, with Clinton aide Lissa Muscatine saying the event "was not quite as dramatic as Clinton put it." Clinton acknowledged her mistake, saying "I made a mistake. That happens. It proves I'm human, which you know, for some people, is
Hillary Clinton was forced to cancel a campaign event after a video showed her making lizard-like “bizarre eye movements” that prove she’s suffering the lingering effects of head trauma. [SEP] CAFE (media company) // her to refuse to commit to debating her own primary opponent, Tim Canova. After the video went viral, Canova used it in a political ad for his candidacy. Other popular videos in the series include dispatches from the 2016 Democratic National Convention, the 2017 Presidential Inauguration and the 2017 Conservative Political Action Conference (CPAC). In the 2017 CPAC video, "CAFE"'s Rob Whisman interviews numerous participants of the conference and cannot contain his misery at being there. In July 2016, "CAFE" Crashes investigated an alleged residential water poisoning cover up in Hoosick Falls, NY, which included interviews with politicians at the
Hillary Clinton was forced to cancel a campaign event after a video showed her making lizard-like “bizarre eye movements” that prove she’s suffering the lingering effects of head trauma. [SEP] Election Night (American Horror Story) // (coulrophobia, claustrophobia, haemophobia, and trypophobia). She credits Ivy and Barack Obama’s presidency for the previous assuagement of her anxiety. He suggests medication and a social media purge. Later, Ally visits a grocery store and greets Gary (Chaz Bono), a cashier who dons a MAGA hat. She becomes increasingly paranoid as she shops. In the produce section, she witnesses a pair of clowns having sex. She wields a bottle of Rosé to defend herself as clowns start to pursue her. She eventually flees the store and calls Ivy in a panic. She crashes her car after a clown pops up in
Hillary Clinton was forced to cancel a campaign event after a video showed her making lizard-like “bizarre eye movements” that prove she’s suffering the lingering effects of head trauma. [SEP] Sean Hannity // intended to treat seizures, when he in fact was holding a small flashlight. He booked doctors on his show to discuss Clinton's health; although these people had never personally examined Clinton, they made alarmist statements about her state of health which turned out to be false. At one point, Hannity promoted an unsubstantiated report that Clinton was drunk at a rally; at another point, he suggested that Clinton was drunk and that her campaign needed to "sober her up". In October 2016, Hannity claimed that WikiLeaks has revealed that "everything that conspiracy theorists have said over the years" about Clinton
Hillary Clinton was forced to cancel a campaign event after a video showed her making lizard-like “bizarre eye movements” that prove she’s suffering the lingering effects of head trauma. [SEP] Prosopometamorphopsia // history of seeing faces morph into dragon-like faces and reported hallucinating similar faces several times a day. Initially she would recognise the actual faces but after a while they would become black, grew long pointy ears and a protruding snout, displayed reptile-like skin and had large protruding eyes in bright colours. She would see these faces coming towards her several times in a day from objects like electric sockets. She has also had these hallucinations in the dark. She had previously suffered from recurrent headaches, passage hallucinations (to see movements in the corner of the eyes) and zoopsia (she saw
Chondroitin of little help for arthritis, study says [SEP] Chondroitin sulfate // of 2015 the largest trial conducted with the product was the Glucosamine and Chondroitin Arthritis Intervention Trial (GAIT), a double-blind, randomized, multicenter clinical trial sponsored by the US National Institutes of Health in 1583 people with knee osteoarthritis, which was published in the New England Journal of Medicine in 2006. Subjects were randomly assigned to one of five orally administered treatments: two 250 mg capsules of glucosamine hydrochloride three times daily, two 200 mg capsules of chondroitin sulphate three times daily, two capsules of 250 mg of glucosamine hydrochloride plus 200 mg of chondroitin sulphate three times daily, 200 mg
Chondroitin of little help for arthritis, study says [SEP] Chondroitin sulfate // also approved and regulated as a symptomatic slow-acting drug for this disease (SYSADOA) in Europe and some other countries. It is commonly sold together with glucosamine. A 2015 Cochrane review of clinical trials found that most were of low quality, but that there was some evidence of short-term improvement in pain and few side effects; it does not appear to improve or maintain the health of affected joints. Chondroitin, along with commonly used glucosamine, should not be used to treat people who have symptomatic osteoarthritis of the knee as evidence shows that these treatments fail to provide relief for that
Chondroitin of little help for arthritis, study says [SEP] Clinical trials on glucosamine and chondroitin // found to be clinically more effective (in 25% of the patients) in treating pain than celecoxib or chondroitin and glucosamine taken individually. Due to small sample sizes in the sub-group (roughly 250 people), the researchers concluded that this needs further validation. The study also found chondroitin sulfate to have no significant effect in reducing joint swelling, effusion, or both. These results indicate that glucosamine and chondroitin do not effectively relieve pain in the overall group of osteoarthritis patients, though it may be an effective treatment for those suffering from moderate-to-severe pain. In a follow-up study, 572 patients from the GAIT
Chondroitin of little help for arthritis, study says [SEP] Clinical trials on glucosamine and chondroitin // ways that glucosamine hydrochloride is not. The Osteoarthritis Research Society International advises arthritis sufferers to discontinue glucosamine therapy if they notice no benefit within six months and the National Institute of Clinical Excellence no longer recommends its use. Despite the difficulty in determining the efficacy of glucosamine, it remains a viable treatment option. Similar trials have been done with chondroitin. In general, the clinical trials of the mid-1990s that furnished positive results showing glucosamine efficacy were later deemed to be of poor quality due to shortcomings in their methods, including small size, short duration, poor analysis of drop-outs, and unclear
Chondroitin of little help for arthritis, study says [SEP] Clinical trials on glucosamine and chondroitin // glucosamine be discontinued if no effect is observed after six months and the National Institute of Clinical Excellence no longer recommends its use although the Arthritis Foundation compares the effectiveness of glucosamine to traditional NSAID therapy. Despite the difficulty in determining the efficacy of glucosamine, it remains a viable treatment option according to some experts. Chondroitin is not recommended as a treatment for osteoarthritis. Prior to publication of the negative review by Reichenbach and the equivocal GAIT trial, clinical practice guidelines recommended the use of chondroitin. The OARSI (OsteoArthritis Research Society International) recommended chondroitin sulfate as the second-most-effective treatment for
Chondroitin of little help for arthritis, study says [SEP] Chondroitin // Chondroitin Chondroitin is a chondrin derivative. Chondroitin sulfate is a chemical that is pre-dominantly found in cartilages around joints in the body. Its uses are a variety of treatments such as HIV/AIDS, osteoporosis, heart attack, muscle soreness and bladder retention or urinary tract disease. It is a common product that is used in eye drops and cornea transplants. The uses of chondroitin is well known for osteoarthritis, where cartilage degrades the joints in the body. Chondroitin helps slow that breakdown in either by mouth where studies have shown that within six months, pain has subsided. Uses in cream have shown
Chondroitin of little help for arthritis, study says [SEP] Clinical trials on glucosamine and chondroitin // changes to articular cartilage. One published in 2010 in the "British Medical Journal" arrived at the following conclusions:Compared with placebo, glucosamine, chondroitin, and their combination do not reduce joint pain or affect the narrowing of joint space. Health authorities and health insurers should not cover the costs of these preparations, and new prescriptions to patients who have not received treatment should be discouraged. These conclusions, however, are not shared by all researchers in the field. Specifically, the authors of the 2010 "BMJ" meta-analysis have been criticized for poor methodology by including too many dissimilar studies in their analysis. In a
Chondroitin of little help for arthritis, study says [SEP] Clinical trials on glucosamine and chondroitin // the knee. It reported initially in 2006, with further findings in 2008 and again in 2010. This multicenter, placebo-controlled, double-blind, six-month-long trial found that glucosamine plus chondroitin had no statistically significant effect on symptoms of osteoarthritis in the osteoarthritis patients studied. The study, in addition to an inactive placebo, also included an active control, the FDA-approved prescription analgesic drug celecoxib. The researchers found that those taking the active control drug fared no better or worse than those taking glucosamine, glucosamine and chondroitin combined or the inactive placebo. However, in the moderate-to-severe pain subgroup, the combination of chondroitin and glucosamine was
Chondroitin of little help for arthritis, study says [SEP] Clinical trials on glucosamine and chondroitin // moderate cases of osteoarthritis (although the guidelines were published in 2008, the developers closed their search date in January 2006 – prior to the GAIT trial). In 2003, the European League Against Rheumatism (EULAR) supported the usefulness of chondroitin sulfate in the management of knee osteoarthritis and granted the highest level of evidence, 1A, and strength of the recommendation, A, to this product. The major trial included in the two reviews above was the Glucosamine/Chondroitin Arthritis Intervention, or GAIT Trial. GAIT was funded by the National Institutes of Health to test the effects of chondroitin and glucosamine on osteoarthritis of
Chondroitin of little help for arthritis, study says [SEP] Clinical trials on glucosamine and chondroitin // of OA disease progression. Thus, while the researchers rightly concluded that no treatment in this study was found to produce a "a clinically important reduction" in joint space width loss none of the participants experienced clinically important progression of their disease during the study period either. In another 2-year follow-up study involving 662 patients from the GAIT trial, published in 2010, there was neither significant pain reduction nor improved function when comparing glucosamine and/or chondroitin to a placebo although the positive control also failed to perform significantly better that the placebo in this study. Glucosamine supplements are widely used for
Partial rather than full knee replacements better for many – report [SEP] Unicompartmental knee arthroplasty // a total knee replacement typically requires an incision of 8-12 inches. The partial replacement does not disrupt the knee cap, which makes for a shorter rehabilitation period. A partial replacement also causes minimal blood loss during the procedure, and results in considerably less post-operative pain. The hospitalization time compared with a total knee replacement is also greatly reduced. The potential benefits of UKA include a smaller incision because the UKA implants are smaller than the total knee replacements, and the surgeon may make a smaller incision. This may lead to a smaller scar. Another potential benefit is less post-operative pain
Partial rather than full knee replacements better for many – report [SEP] Knee replacement // the knee), lateral (the outside), and patellofemoral (the joint between the kneecap and the thighbone). Most patients with arthritis severe enough to consider knee replacement have significant wear in two or more of the above compartments and are best treated with total knee replacement. A minority of patients (the exact percentage is hotly debated but is probably between 10 and 30 percent) have wear confined primarily to one compartment, usually the medial, and may be candidates for unicompartmental knee replacement. Advantages of UKA compared to TKA include smaller incision, easier post-op rehabilitation, better post-operative range of motion, shorter hospital stay,
Partial rather than full knee replacements better for many – report [SEP] Knee replacement // replacement surgery is most commonly performed in people with advanced osteoarthritis and should be considered when conservative treatments have been exhausted. Total knee replacement is also an option to correct significant knee joint or bone trauma in young patients. Similarly, total knee replacement can be performed to correct mild valgus or varus deformity. Serious valgus or varus deformity should be corrected by osteotomy. Physical therapy has been shown to improve function and may delay or prevent the need for knee replacement. Pain is often noted when performing physical activities requiring a wide range of motion in the knee joint. Risks
Partial rather than full knee replacements better for many – report [SEP] Knee replacement // of knee replacement in combination with percutaneous bone anchoring device enabling amputees with short residual tibia and or knee joint arthritis to mobilise with ease. This technology provided a solution for individuals with amputation who are unable to wear a traditional socket prosthesis. Another variation in the total knee replacement procedure is to permit movement in the prostheses using a polyethylene insert, an approach called a mobile bearing total knee arthroplasty. There is no strong evidence that this approach improves a persons function compared to the fixed bearing approach for total knee replacement that retains the cruciate ligament. The mobile
Partial rather than full knee replacements better for many – report [SEP] Knee replacement // the PCL has been shown to reduce the maximal force that the individual can place on that knee. Typically individuals who have the PCL removed will lean forward while climbing in order to maximize the force of the quadriceps. A variation in the total knee replacement procedure is to permit movement in the prostheses using a polyethylene insert, an approach called a mobile bearing total knee arthroplasty. There is no strong evidence that this approach improves a persons knee function, mortality, number of adverse effects, or amount of pain compared to a fixed bearing approach for total knee replacement that
Partial rather than full knee replacements better for many – report [SEP] Unicompartmental knee arthroplasty // non-replaced knee as compared to a total knee replacement 2, Partial knee replacements leave other options open to further advances. By not replacing the rest of the knee with metal and plastic, if other options exist in years to come for arthritis in these areas then a partial knee replacement does not burn that bridge. Blood clots (also known as deep vein thrombosis) are a common complication after surgery. However, a doctor may prescribe certain medications to help prevent blood clots. Infection may occur after surgery. However, antibiotics may be prescribed by a doctor to help prevent infections. Individual factors
Partial rather than full knee replacements better for many – report [SEP] Unicompartmental knee arthroplasty // because less bone is removed. Also, a quicker operation and shorter recovery period may be a result of less bone being removed during the operation and the soft tissue may sustain less trauma. Also, the rehabilitation process may be more progressive. More specific benefits of UKA are that it may improve range of motion, reduce blood loss during surgery, reduce the person’s time spent in the hospital, and decrease costs. In 2018, two of the most significant benefits of UKA or partial knee replacements are: 1. Partial knee replacement subjects report that their replaced knee feels more like their original
Partial rather than full knee replacements better for many – report [SEP] Knee replacement // and ligament tears. Debilitating pain from osteoarthritis is much more common in the elderly. Knee replacement surgery can be performed as a partial or a total knee replacement. In general, the surgery consists of replacing the diseased or damaged joint surfaces of the knee with metal and plastic components shaped to allow continued motion of the knee. The operation typically involves substantial postoperative pain, and includes vigorous physical rehabilitation. The recovery period may be 6 weeks or longer and may involve the use of mobility aids (e.g. walking frames, canes, crutches) to enable the patient's return to preoperative mobility. Knee
Partial rather than full knee replacements better for many – report [SEP] Joint replacement // replacement or a hemi (half) replacement. A total hip replacement consists of replacing both the acetabulum and the femoral head while hemiarthroplasty generally only replaces the femoral head. Hip replacement is currently the most common orthopaedic operation, though patient satisfaction short- and long-term varies widely. Knee replacement involves exposure of the front of the knee, with detachment of part of the quadriceps muscle (vastus medialis) from the patella. The patella is displaced to one side of the joint, allowing exposure of the distal end of the femur and the proximal end of the tibia. The ends of these bones are
Partial rather than full knee replacements better for many – report [SEP] Knee replacement // should be advised to lose weight before surgery and, if medically eligible, would probably benefit from bariatric surgery. Fracturing or chipping of the polyethylene platform between the femoral and tibial components may be of concern. These fragments may become lodged in the knee and create pain or may move to other parts of the body. Advancements in implant design have greatly reduced these issues but the potential for concern is still present over the lifespan of the knee replacement. According to the American Academy of Orthopedic Surgeons (AAOS), deep vein thrombosis in the leg is "the most common complication of
French foie gras makers worry as bird flu spreads in Europe. [SEP] Foie gras // This led to Algeria, China, Egypt, Japan, Morocco, South Korea, Thailand and Tunisia banning French poultry exports, including foie gras, and France to initiate increased bio-security protocols which will cost an estimated 220 million euros. One of these measures was the halting of production in southwestern France from early April, 2016 for an anticipated period of three months to reduce the spread of the virus. Exports of foie gras from France are expected to decrease from 4,560 tonnes in 2015 to 3,160 tonnes in 2016. In the United States, the largest producer is Hudson Valley Foie Gras, which uses approximately
French foie gras makers worry as bird flu spreads in Europe. [SEP] Foie gras // producing 72% of world foie gras production of which 97% was from ducks. In 2015, it was reported that in France, sales of foie gras may be waning and an OpinionWay poll found that 47% of the French population supported a ban on force-feeding. In 2016, it was reported that France produces an estimated 75% of the world's foie gras and southwestern France produces approximately 70% of that total. In 2016, it can retail for upwards of $65 a pound. In late 2015, there were several outbreaks of the highly contagious H5N1 bird flu in France, which escalated during 2016.
French foie gras makers worry as bird flu spreads in Europe. [SEP] Foie gras // farm in New York state. The video showed workers forcefully pushing tubes down ducks' throats. One worker said of the force-feeding process: "Sometimes the duck doesn't get up and it dies. There have been times that 20 ducks were killed." Hudson Valley operations manager Marcus Henley replied that the farm's mortality statistics are not above average for the poultry industry. Because Hudson Valley provides foie gras to Amazon.com, Mercy for Animals began a campaign urging Amazon to stop selling foie gras, a move that has already been made by Costco, Safeway, and Target. In November 2013, the "Daily Mirror" published
French foie gras makers worry as bird flu spreads in Europe. [SEP] Animal welfare and rights in France // foie gras, which involves enlarging the livers of geese and ducks by force-feeding them for several weeks. Several European countries, including Britain, Norway, Sweden, Germany, and Switzerland, and well as the American state of California have banned foie gras production. In a 2014 survey by a French animal protection group, 47% of respondents said they would support a ban on force-feeding. In 2016, French animal activist group L214 released undercover video of an "organic" French slaughterhouse in which animals are seen to be tortured by slaughterhouse staff and slaughtered while still conscious. The video prompted authorities to close the slaughterhouse
French foie gras makers worry as bird flu spreads in Europe. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic actions concerning pigs // of the bird flu, then the swine flu, provided an opportunity to act on a plan that had been there for several years, . Josep Domènech, the chief veterinary officer at the U.N. Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) called the decision "a real mistake", saying that FAO had been trying to reach Egyptian officials but there has been no response. Egypt commenced the slaughter on 2 May 2009. This led to clashes between pig owners and the police in Cairo. On the next day in Cairo, an estimated 300 Coptic Christian residents of the Manshiyat Nasr district set up blockades
French foie gras makers worry as bird flu spreads in Europe. [SEP] Foie gras controversy // product of a diseased animal" an adulterated product. In the appeal, the Animal Legal Defense Fund will defend its legal standing to bring the case, noting it has diverted substantial resources to warn the public of the dangerous health risks posed by foie gras and, will assert that the Department's failure to regulate has resulted in the slaughter of hundreds of thousands of diseased birds whose organs are distributed into the human food supply. In July 2014, India banned the import of foie gras making it the first and only country in the world to do so, causing dismay among
French foie gras makers worry as bird flu spreads in Europe. [SEP] Foie gras // 2017 due to outbreaks of bird flu. In 2014, ducks accounted for 95% of foie gras production. The breeds primarily used are the Muscovy duck ("Cairina moschata") (also called the Barbary duck) and the hybrid cross of a male Muscovy duck and a female Pekin duck ("Anas platyrhynchos domestica") called the Mulard duck. This hybrid is sterile and is therefore sometimes referred to as a "mule" duck. Mulards are estimated to account for about 35% of all foie gras consumed in the US. About 95% of duck foie gras production from France comes from force fed Mulards and the remaining
French foie gras makers worry as bird flu spreads in Europe. [SEP] Foie gras // Bulgaria (which started production in 1960), 5 million mule ducks were raised for foie gras on 800 farms. This figure makes Bulgaria the second largest producer in Europe. In 2012, France produced around 19,000 tonnes of foie gras representing 75% of the world's production in that year. This required the force-feeding of around 38 million ducks and geese. World production in 2015 is estimated as 27,000 tonnes. In 2014, the whole of the EU produced approximately 25,000 tonnes of foie gras – 23,000 tonnes of duck foie gras and 2,000 tonnes of goose foie gras. The same year, France was
French foie gras makers worry as bird flu spreads in Europe. [SEP] Foie gras // in southwestern France with a geographical indication of provenance. Hungary is the world's second-largest foie gras ("libamáj") producer and the largest exporter. France is the principal market for Hungarian foie gras – mainly exported raw. Approximately 30,000 Hungarian goose farmers are dependent on the foie gras industry. French food companies spice, process, and cook the foie gras so it may be sold as a French product in its domestic and export markets. Some countries have produced foie gras only sporadically in the past. For example, in 1996, Turkey had a peak year of production with 20 tonnes of foie gras
French foie gras makers worry as bird flu spreads in Europe. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic in France // to cancel all flights to Mexico. Stocks of Tamiflu and Relenza are 33 million. On 1 May, the French Health Minister confirmed, during the 8 p.m. TF1 news, that 2 cases of A(H1N1) flu have been detected in France. The government discusses the possibility of ordering 100 million vaccine doses against the flu from three companies (GlaxoSmithKline, Sanofi and Novartis). The French government plans to vaccinate the entire French population (65 million inhabitants) The detailed situation by region is updated by the National Institute of Health 2009 flu pandemic in France The 2009 flu pandemic, involving an outbreak of a
Arizona State Senate candidate Bobby Wilson fatally shot his mother in 1963. [SEP] Shootout at Wilson Ranch // Haldermans' trial. As for the Wilson family, Rena later committed suicide for her involvement in the case and in 1913 Mary was put in an insane asylum by her brother, Tol, who was killed shortly thereafter in what became known as the Cottonwood Canyon Murder. Shootout at Wilson Ranch The Shootout at Wilson Ranch resulted in the final and most famous hanging in the history of Tombstone, Arizona. On April 7, 1899, the brothers William and Thomas Lee Halderman were confronted by two lawmen at a ranch located in the Chiricahua Mountains. A brief gunfight ensued, during which Constable Chester
Arizona State Senate candidate Bobby Wilson fatally shot his mother in 1963. [SEP] Jimmy Wilson (politician) // in Caddo Parish in 1972. While a conflict of interest by virtue of his activities with the bank in Vivian prevented him from serving on the board in Blanchard as well, he did own stock in the Blanchard bank, and as a legislator he was able to get the state charter approved. Wilson was a Shriner. Wilson was elected mayor of the town of Vivian in 1966 and served until 1972, when he assumed the District 1 seat in the state legislature. When Wilson won the Democratic nomination for the seat, the Republican candidate, Bruce Lynn withdrew in favor of
Arizona State Senate candidate Bobby Wilson fatally shot his mother in 1963. [SEP] Jim Leslie (journalist) // Antonio, Texas, and hence never faced trial for his role in the case. Nine days after taking office as the sheriff of Caddo Parish, Harold Terry (1925-2016), had the unpleasant duty of informing the Leslie family in Shreveport of Leslie's assassination in the evening of July 9, 1976. Josiah Lee "J. L." Wilson, III (1940-2015), then a reporter for "The Shreveport Times" reported that deputies told him that Sheriff Terry's eyes were red from weeping as he left his office to meet with Mrs. Carolyn S. Leslie (born April 30, 1934) and the couple's two sons, D. Scott Leslie (born
Arizona State Senate candidate Bobby Wilson fatally shot his mother in 1963. [SEP] Robert Spangler // engineer. On the morning of December 30, 1978, deputies from the Arapahoe County, Colorado, Sheriff's Office responded to the scene of a possible double homicide/suicide in a private residence in Littleton, Colorado. A neighbor had discovered the bodies of a 45-year-old woman, her 17-year-old son, and her 15-year-old daughter. All three had suffered gunshot wounds from a .38-caliber handgun. The daughter, found partially clothed in her bed, had a bullet wound in her back. The son, also in bed, had been shot once in his upper chest. The mother's body lay slumped over a typewriter in the basement with a
Arizona State Senate candidate Bobby Wilson fatally shot his mother in 1963. [SEP] Charles Schmid // left in the desert. The mother, Norma Rowe, went to the police and was told that she needed more evidence before they could go looking in the desert. One of Schmid's many girlfriends was Gretchen Fritz, daughter of a prominent Tucson heart surgeon and community leader. Schmid confided to Gretchen that he had murdered Alleen Rowe. There were also rumors that Fritz knew of an earlier, unsubstantiated murder that Schmid supposedly committed. When Schmid decided to break up with Fritz, she threatened to use the information against him. Schmid strangled Gretchen Fritz and her sister Wendy on August 16, 1965.
Arizona State Senate candidate Bobby Wilson fatally shot his mother in 1963. [SEP] Dick Wilson (tribal chairman) // murder. In 1972 Wilson ran against the incumbent tribal chairman, Gerald One Feather. Before the election, his political connections were largely limited to Pine Ridge due to his years as a councilor, but he campaigned in all parts of the reservation and sought the support of both traditionalists and progressives. He supported protests that year organized by AIM, following the murder of Raymond Yellow Thunder in Gordon, Nebraska. The election was close, but Wilson won five of the reservation's nine districts and won heavily in Pine Ridge village. Wilson was inaugurated on April 10, 1972. He helped set up the
Arizona State Senate candidate Bobby Wilson fatally shot his mother in 1963. [SEP] Kathy Augustine // nurse who had been involved in Charles' care. On August 27, 2012, Dallas shot her partner, Jessie McCaskill, before killing herself at their Phoenix, Arizona home in a murder-suicide. From 1993 to 1995, Augustine served one term in the Nevada Assembly. During the 1992 campaign, she was criticized for a campaign advertisement featuring a bad photograph of her African-American opponent (the same photograph, however, was used by her opponent in her own campaign literature). Above descriptions of the two candidates' positions on various issues was a caption reading, "There is a real difference." Augustine served in the Nevada Senate from
Arizona State Senate candidate Bobby Wilson fatally shot his mother in 1963. [SEP] Robert William Fisher // Bobby (age 10). Investigators had, ironically, theorized that Fisher murdered his family because he felt threatened by Mary's intent to divorce him, and didn't want his children to go through what he did as a child. Fisher, who disappeared at the time of the murders, was named as an official (and to date, only) person of interest in the case on April 14, 2001, when Arizona Department of Public Safety officers were instructed in a statewide bulletin to arrest him. On April 20, the last physical evidence of Fisher's whereabouts surfaced, when police found Mary's Toyota 4Runner and their dog,
Arizona State Senate candidate Bobby Wilson fatally shot his mother in 1963. [SEP] J. T. Ready // a non-partisan position such as sheriff, political affiliation did not matter. After Ready's death, former Arizona State Senator Russell Pearce released a statement saying that he had previously rejected Ready due to his association with "despicable groups in society", and had objected to Ready's position in the Republican Party. On May 2, 2012, Ready entered his home in Gilbert, Arizona, and fatally shot his girlfriend Lisa, her daughter Amber, Amber's boyfriend, Jim Hiott, and Amber's infant daughter Lilly. He then fatally shot himself. A 9-1-1 call made from the house referred to an argument before the call was interrupted by
Arizona State Senate candidate Bobby Wilson fatally shot his mother in 1963. [SEP] Ann Day // also served on the Arizona Industrial Commission. Day was the sister of retired United States Supreme Court justice Sandra Day O'Connor. Day was killed in an automobile accident involving three vehicles by a drunk driver at 7:28am, on Ina Road near Oracle Road, less than a mile from where Gabrielle Giffords was shot in an assassination attempt near Tucson, Arizona. Ann Day Eleanor Ann Day (August 10, 1938 – May 7, 2016) was an American politician. Born in El Paso, Texas, Day received her bachelor's degree in education from Arizona State University and her master's degree in counseling and guidance
Half of all adults have a pre-existing condition" that could affect their health care coverage. [SEP] Pre-existing condition // Pre-existing condition In the context of healthcare in the United States, a pre-existing condition is a medical condition that started before a person's health benefits went into effect. Before 2014 some insurance policies would not cover expenses due to pre-existing conditions. These exclusions by the insurance industry were meant to cope with adverse selection by potential customers. Such exclusions have been prohibited since January 1, 2014, by the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. According to the Kaiser Family Foundation, more than a quarter of adults below the age of 65 (approximately 52 million people) had pre-existing conditions in 2016.
Half of all adults have a pre-existing condition" that could affect their health care coverage. [SEP] Pre-existing condition // July 2009 found that a large majority of Americans (80%) favored a requirement that insurance companies insure people even if they suffer from pre-existing conditions. In September 2009, the monthly Kaiser Health Tracking Poll report said: Pre-existing condition In the context of healthcare in the United States, a pre-existing condition is a medical condition that started before a person's health benefits went into effect. Before 2014 some insurance policies would not cover expenses due to pre-existing conditions. These exclusions by the insurance industry were meant to cope with adverse selection by potential customers. Such exclusions have been prohibited since January
Half of all adults have a pre-existing condition" that could affect their health care coverage. [SEP] Pre-existing condition // 10 states did not specify either definition, 21 required the "prudent person" standard, and 18 required the "objective" standard. According to the Kaiser Family Foundation, more than a quarter of adults below the age of 65 (approximately 52 million people) had pre-existing conditions in 2016. Regulation of pre-existing condition exclusions in individual (non-group) and small group (2 to 50 employees) health insurance plans in the United States was left to individual U.S. states as a result of the McCarran–Ferguson Act of 1945 which delegated insurance regulation to the states and the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA) which
Half of all adults have a pre-existing condition" that could affect their health care coverage. [SEP] Pre-existing condition // you have no insurance, it doesn't matter what services are mandated by the state". According to the California-based advocacy group Consumer Watchdog, other possible situations falling under pre-existing condition clauses are chronic conditions as acne, hemorrhoids, toenail fungus, allergies, tonsillitis, and bunions, hazardous occupations such as police officer, stunt person, test pilot, circus worker, and firefighter, and pregnancy and/or the intention to adopt. According to a Reason.com libertarian opinion blog by Peter Suderman, the 'Pledge to America' issued by the Republican Party in September 2010 stated, "Health care should be accessible for all, regardless of pre-existing conditions or past illnesses...
Half of all adults have a pre-existing condition" that could affect their health care coverage. [SEP] Health insurance coverage in the United States // and reject those with serious conditions such as arthritis, cancer, and heart disease, but also such common ailments as acne, being 20 pounds over or under weight, and old sports injuries. In 2008, an estimated 5 million of those without health insurance were considered "uninsurable" because of pre-existing conditions. Proponents of medical underwriting argue that it ensures that individual health insurance premiums are kept as low as possible. Critics of medical underwriting believe that it unfairly prevents people with relatively minor and treatable pre-existing conditions from obtaining health insurance. One large industry survey found that 13% of applicants for individual
Half of all adults have a pre-existing condition" that could affect their health care coverage. [SEP] Health insurance costs in the United States // costly coverage for those conditions. This situation is expected to be corrected by the health reform bill being considered by the US Congress in early 2010. Currently, those with pre-existing conditions must pay the cost out-of-pocket, and some resort to medical tourism, obtaining treatment in other countries or US regions, to obtain more affordable health treatment. This is especially difficult for those impacted by cancer, heart condition and other serious illnesses where treatment costs can easily run into the tens of thousands of dollars or higher within a few days or weeks. According to the Kaiser Family Foundation, 21 percent
Half of all adults have a pre-existing condition" that could affect their health care coverage. [SEP] Health insurance coverage in the United States // slightly from 2006 to 2007, from 15.3 to 14.8 million, a decrease of 2 percentage points (34.1% to 32.1%). The state with the highest percentage of uninsured was Texas (24.1% average for three years, 2004–2006). New Mexico has the second highest percentage of residents without health insurance at 22%. It has been estimated that nearly one-fifth of the uninsured population is able to afford insurance, almost one quarter is eligible for public coverage, and the remaining 56% need financial assistance (8.9% of all Americans). An estimated 5 million of those without health insurance are considered "uninsurable" because of pre-existing conditions.
Half of all adults have a pre-existing condition" that could affect their health care coverage. [SEP] Health insurance costs in the United States // of those who apply for health insurance on their own are turned down, charged a higher price or denied coverage for their pre-existing condition. Among the conditions that be considered "pre-existing" by insurance companies are domestic violence, cancer, asthma, depression and occupations such as police officer and construction worker. The 9 million self-employed workers have a greater challenge than many people to find affordable health insurance. They represent 8 percent of the US labor force, and essentially pay a tax on their health insurance premiums, unlike any other workers. They pay a tax of 15.3 percent of their net earnings,
Half of all adults have a pre-existing condition" that could affect their health care coverage. [SEP] Pre-existing Condition Insurance Plan // Pre-existing Condition Insurance Plan The Pre-existing Condition Insurance Plan (PCIP) is a form of health insurance coverage offered to uninsured Americans who have been unable to obtain coverage because of a pre-existing condition. It will provide coverage to as many as 350,000 people and fill the gap until the Affordable Care Act goes into effect in 2014. The plan has been funded by congress through the Department of Health and Human Services to monitor and distribute. States are either individually run or administered by HHS with 23 states and the District of Columbia. The plan is open through an Association
Half of all adults have a pre-existing condition" that could affect their health care coverage. [SEP] Health insurance coverage in the United States // who have cardiovascular disease or other cardiac risk factors that are uninsured are less likely to be aware of their condition, which leads to worse health outcomes for those individuals. Without health insurance, adults are more likely to be diagnosed with certain cancers that would have been detectable earlier by screening by a clinician if they had regularly visited a doctor. As a consequence, these adults are more likely to die from their diagnosed cancer or suffer poorer health outcomes. Many towns and cities in the United States have high concentrations of people under the age of 65 who lack
An increase in documented cases of people "scromiting" (screaming while vomiting) is linked to chronic heavy marijuana use. [SEP] Effects of cannabis // at Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine showed that very heavy use of marijuana is associated with decrements in neurocognitive performance even after 28 days of abstinence. The feeling of increased appetite following the use of cannabis has been documented for hundreds of years, and is known colloquially as "the munchies" in the English-speaking world. Clinical studies and survey data have found that cannabis increases food enjoyment and interest in food. A 2015 study suggests that cannabis triggers uncharacteristic behaviour in POMC neurons, which are usually associated with decreasing hunger. Rarely, chronic users experience a severe vomiting disorder, cannabinoid hyperemesis
An increase in documented cases of people "scromiting" (screaming while vomiting) is linked to chronic heavy marijuana use. [SEP] Cannabinoid hyperemesis syndrome // days per month, about one-third might experience symptoms. Cannabinoid hyperemesis syndrome has been reported more frequently in people that use cannabis daily (47.9% of patients) and greater than daily (23.7% of patients), compared to once weekly users (19.4% of patients) and less frequent users (2.4% of patients). A significant increase in the incidence of cannabinoid hyperemesis syndrome (and other marijuana-related visits to the emergency department) has been noted in U.S. states that have legalized marijuana, with the incidence of cyclic vomiting prominently doubling in the US state of Colorado after legalization. As the use of marijuana continues to be legalized
An increase in documented cases of people "scromiting" (screaming while vomiting) is linked to chronic heavy marijuana use. [SEP] Medical cannabis // nor sufficient" to cause psychosis. A French review from 2009 came to a conclusion that cannabis use, particularly that before age 15, was a factor in the development of schizophrenic disorders. A 2008 National Institutes of Health study of 19 chronic heavy marijuana users with cardiac and cerebral abnormalities (averaging 28 g to 272 g (1 to 9+ oz) weekly) and 24 controls found elevated levels of apolipoprotein C-III (apoC-III) in the chronic smokers. An increase in apoC-III levels induces the development of hypertriglyceridemia. The genus "Cannabis" contains two species which produce useful amounts of psychoactive cannabinoids: "Cannabis indica" and
An increase in documented cases of people "scromiting" (screaming while vomiting) is linked to chronic heavy marijuana use. [SEP] Cannabis (drug) // memory, dry mouth, impaired motor skills and reddening of the eyes. Aside from a subjective change in perception and mood, the most common short-term physical and neurological effects include increased heart rate, increased appetite and consumption of food, lowered blood pressure, impairment of short-term and working memory, psychomotor coordination, and concentration. Some users may experience an episode of acute psychosis, which usually abates after six hours, but in rare instances, heavy users may find the symptoms continuing for many days. A reduced quality of life is associated with heavy cannabis use, although the relationship is inconsistent and weaker than for
An increase in documented cases of people "scromiting" (screaming while vomiting) is linked to chronic heavy marijuana use. [SEP] Cannabinoid hyperemesis syndrome // 2018 commented that the condition wasn't on their "radar" in the 5 years prior, though the condition was being diagnosed more often now. Many people are struck by the notion that cannabis could induce symptoms of nausea and vomiting, given the common perception that cannabis can be used to prevent nausea and vomiting. It is unclear why cannabinoid hyperemesis syndrome is disproportionately uncommon in recognition of how widely used cannabis is throughout the world. There may be genetic differences between cannabis users that affect one's risk for developing cannabinoid hyperemesis syndrome. The pathophysiology of the syndrome is also unclear, especially
An increase in documented cases of people "scromiting" (screaming while vomiting) is linked to chronic heavy marijuana use. [SEP] Medical cannabis // The drug use must be "implicated" in the emergency department visit, but does not need to be the direct cause of the visit. Most of the illicit drug emergency room visits involved multiple drugs. In 129,000 cases, cannabis was the only implicated drug. Effects of chronic use may include bronchitis, a cannabis dependence syndrome, and subtle impairments of attention and memory. These deficits persist while chronically intoxicated. Compared to non-smokers, people who smoked cannabis regularly in adolescence exhibit reduced connectivity in specific brain regions associated with memory, learning, alertness, and executive function. One study suggested that sustained heavy, daily, adolescent
An increase in documented cases of people "scromiting" (screaming while vomiting) is linked to chronic heavy marijuana use. [SEP] Vomiting // a single member of the party. This phenomenon has been touched on in popular culture: notorious instances appear in the films "Monty Python's The Meaning of Life" (1983) and "Stand By Me" (1986). Intense vomiting in ayahuasca ceremonies is a common phenomenon. However, people who experience "la purga" after drinking ayahuasca, in general, regard the practice as both a physical and spiritual cleanse and often come to welcome it. It has been suggested that the consistent emetic effects of ayahuasca—in addition to its many other therapeutic properties—was of medicinal benefit to indigenous peoples of the Amazon, in helping to clear
An increase in documented cases of people "scromiting" (screaming while vomiting) is linked to chronic heavy marijuana use. [SEP] Medical cannabis // several European countries for overactive bladder and vomiting. When sold under the trade name Sativex as a mouth spray, the prescribed daily dose in Sweden delivers a maximum of 32.4 mg of THC and 30 mg of CBD; mild to moderate dizziness is common during the first few weeks. Relative to inhaled consumption, peak concentration of oral THC is delayed, and it may be difficult to determine optimal dosage because of variability in patient absorption. In 1964, Albert Lockhart and Manley West began studying the health effects of traditional cannabis use in Jamaican communities. They developed, and in 1987 gained
An increase in documented cases of people "scromiting" (screaming while vomiting) is linked to chronic heavy marijuana use. [SEP] Medical cannabis // onset cannabis use over decades is associated with a decline in IQ by age 38, with no effects found in those who initiated cannabis use later, or in those who ceased use earlier in adulthood. There has been a limited amount of studies that have looked at the effects of smoking cannabis on the respiratory system. Chronic heavy marijuana smoking is associated with coughing, production of sputum, wheezing, coughing, and other symptoms of chronic bronchitis. Regular cannabis use has not been shown to cause significant abnormalities in lung function. Cannabis smoke contains thousands of organic and inorganic chemical compounds. This
An increase in documented cases of people "scromiting" (screaming while vomiting) is linked to chronic heavy marijuana use. [SEP] Cannabinoid hyperemesis syndrome // increase their intake of cannabinoids in an effort to treat the persistent nausea they experience. This phase can last for months or even years. The hyperemetic phase is characterized by the full syndromal symptoms of cannabinoid hyperemesis syndrome, including persistent nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, and retching. Retching can occur up to 5 times per hour. It is very difficult to take food or medicine by mouth during this stage, and patients may develop a fear of eating. Weight loss and dehydration due to decreased oral intake and vomiting are possible. Compensatory exposure to hot water, even for hours at a
Pro-life activists say Girl Scout cookie sales benefit Planned Parenthood and have called for a boycott. [SEP] Girl Scouts of the USA // connections with Planned Parenthood. In 2003, in Waco, Texas, the local Bluebonnet Council was listed as a co-sponsor—with the Girl Scouts logo printed on the promotional flyer—of the Planned Parenthood of Central Texas event titled "Nobody's Fool '03: Dating, Love, Sex & HIV." In 2004, the same Council promoted a Planned Parenthood education event without providing money nor sending Girl Scouts to it. This was criticized by some pro-life movement supporters and social conservatives, resulting in a local attempt to boycott Girl Scout cookies sold by the Bluebonnet Council. Waco residents responded to the announced boycott by purchasing a record
Pro-life activists say Girl Scout cookie sales benefit Planned Parenthood and have called for a boycott. [SEP] Girl Scout Cookies // they discovered that the Girl Scout Cookies contained palm oil, an ingredient that results in rainforest destruction and human rights abuses, the two girls launched a variety of campaigns in order to convince the GSUSA to remove this ingredient from their cookies. Vorva and Tomtishen were awarded the UN Forest Heroes Award in 2011. Girl Scout Cookies Girl Scout Cookies are cookies sold by Girl Scouts of the United States of America (GSUSA) as one of its major fundraisers for local Scout units. The Girls Scout Cookie Program is the largest girl-run and girl-led financial literacy program in the world,
Pro-life activists say Girl Scout cookie sales benefit Planned Parenthood and have called for a boycott. [SEP] Girl Scouts of the USA // when overturning a local troop's rejection of a seven-year-old transgender girl. In July 2015, the Girl Scouts of Western Washington returned a $100,000 donation after the donor stipulated that the money could not be used to support services for transgender Scouts. The group then set up an online fundraising campaign to recoup the lost funds, ultimately raising $250,000. In January 2012, a teen in California created a video calling for the boycott of Girl Scout Cookies in response to the Girl Scouts' policy of inclusion for transgender girls. The viral video became a rallying cry for both supporters and opponents
Pro-life activists say Girl Scout cookie sales benefit Planned Parenthood and have called for a boycott. [SEP] American Family Association // it needed the space on the counter for a new perfume" and stated it would stop printing catalogs and start a new campaign. In 2005 the AFA boycotted the company American Girl, seller of dolls and accessories, because the company supported the charity Girls, Inc., which the AFA called "a pro-abortion, pro-lesbian advocacy group". In Spring 2005 the AFA launched a boycott of Ford for advertising in gay magazines, donating to gay rights organizations, and sponsoring gay pride celebrations. After meeting with representatives of the group, Ford announced it was curtailing ads in a number of major gay-themed publications, due
Pro-life activists say Girl Scout cookie sales benefit Planned Parenthood and have called for a boycott. [SEP] Katharine Hamnett // times against the slogan's use by prolife activists in the U.S. She wrote on her website, "It's not about the anti-abortion lobby. The US anti-abortion lobby attempted to appropriate CHOOSE LIFE. We are taking it back and promoting its real meaning. Ours is authentic and I believe in a woman's right to choose." Outside her own label, in 1984 Hamnett was involved in the founding of Tanya Sarne's Ghost label. Beginning in 1989, with research showing pesticide poisoning in cotton-growing regions, and sweatshop labour a major part of the textiles industry, Hamnett began lobbying for major changes in the way
Pro-life activists say Girl Scout cookie sales benefit Planned Parenthood and have called for a boycott. [SEP] Girl Scout Cookies // at their local high school. In 1922, the Girl Scout magazine "The American Girl" suggested cookie sales as a fundraiser and provided a simple cookie recipe from a regional director for the Girl Scouts of Chicago. From 1933 to 1935, organized cookie sales grew, with troops in Philadelphia and New York City using the cookie selling model to develop the marketing and sales skills of their local troops. In 1933, Girl Scouts in Philadelphia organized the first official sale, selling homemade cookies at the windows of the Philadelphia Gas and Electric Company (PGE). In 1936 the national organization began licensing
Pro-life activists say Girl Scout cookie sales benefit Planned Parenthood and have called for a boycott. [SEP] Girl Scout Cookies // 25,000 boxes of cookies, breaking the record. Each Girl Scout council operates its own cookie sale. Approximately 70% of the proceeds stay in the local Girl Scout council to support Girl Scouting in that area, including a portion, approximately 15%, that goes directly to the group selling the cookies. The profits are divided by a formula, with local troops receiving about 10-15% of the retail price, the council more than 50%, and the manufacturer the remainder. In 1992 Girl Scouts sold 175 million boxes of cookies nationwide. Revenues at all levels are used to pay for events and activities for
Pro-life activists say Girl Scout cookie sales benefit Planned Parenthood and have called for a boycott. [SEP] Pro-Life Alliance of Gays and Lesbians // homosexuality, would make it illegal for a woman to selectively abort a fetus based on predicted sexual orientation. Since the religious right is perceived as dominating the pro-life movement, LGBT pro-choicers question why any LGBT person would want to align themselves with a social movement that has traditionally opposed not only legalized abortion, but often also LGBT rights. LGBT pro-lifers counter that their beliefs on abortion derive from beliefs regarding nonviolence, human rights, and the interconnectedness of human rights. Although some PLAGAL members are otherwise conservative, they span the entire political spectrum. PLAGAL President Cecilia Brown, for example, is a
Pro-life activists say Girl Scout cookie sales benefit Planned Parenthood and have called for a boycott. [SEP] Americans United for Life // group filed a petition with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), that demanded the agency apply the strictest possible standards when reviewing a drug used to induce abortions, RU-486. Later, in 2009 and 2010, the organization opposed the FDA approval of the contraceptive drug Ulipristal acetate (also known under the brand name ella). It argued that the pill caused abortions and campaigned for the FDA to not approve the drug for use in the U.S. The group has also voiced opposition towards an early-pregnancy gender detection kit called the Baby Gender Mentor. It stated that learning the gender at
Pro-life activists say Girl Scout cookie sales benefit Planned Parenthood and have called for a boycott. [SEP] Girl Scout Cookies // selling for less in the next town over." The "Globe" found that a box of Thin Mints sold for $3.50 in Rockland, Massachusetts and $4.00 in neighboring Norwell. Elizabeth Brinton, also known as the "Cookie Queen", sold a record 18,000 boxes of cookies in a single sales season, and more than 100,000 boxes in her time as a girl scout. She is known for selling cookies to sitting president Ronald Reagan. Her record held for more than twenty-nine years, until Katie Francis, 12, sold 18,107 boxes in 2014. In 2017, Charlotte McCourt, a girl scout from New Jersey, sold over
Authorities in Kenya warned of a new outbreak of HPV that spreads through kissing and is deadlier than HIV/Aids. [SEP] Kaposi's sarcoma // present in almost 100% of Kaposi sarcoma lesions, whether HIV-related, classic, endemic, or iatrogenic. In Europe and North America, KSHV is transmitted through saliva. Thus, kissing is a theoretical risk factor for transmission. Higher rates of transmission among gay and bisexual men have been attributed to "deep kissing" sexual partners with KSHV. Another alternative theory suggests that use of saliva as a sexual lubricant might be a major mode for transmission. Prudent advice is to use commercial lubricants when needed and avoid deep kissing with partners with KSHV infection or whose status is unknown. KSHV is also transmissible via organ
Authorities in Kenya warned of a new outbreak of HPV that spreads through kissing and is deadlier than HIV/Aids. [SEP] Human papillomavirus infection // (condoms, gloves) is needed to prevent transmission until the infection clears. Studies have tested for and found HPV in men, including high-risk types (i.e. the types found in cancers), on fingers, mouth, saliva, anus, urethra, urine, semen, blood, scrotum and penis. The Qiagen/Digene kit mentioned in the previous section was used successfully off label to test men's penis, scrotum and anus of men in long term relationship with woman who were positive for high-risk HPV. 60% of the were found to carry the virus men, primarily on the penis." Other studies used cytobrushes and custom analysis. In one study researchers
Authorities in Kenya warned of a new outbreak of HPV that spreads through kissing and is deadlier than HIV/Aids. [SEP] Marburg virus disease // Monet”, whereas the physician is identified under his real name, Shem Musoke). In 1987, a single lethal case of RAVV infection occurred in a 15-year-old Danish boy, who spent his vacation in Kisumu, Kenya. He had visited Kitum Cave on Mount Elgon prior to travelling to Mombasa, where he developed clinical signs of infection. The boy died after transfer to Nairobi Hospital. A popular science account of this case can be found in Richard Preston’s book "The Hot Zone" (the boy is referred to under the pseudonym “Peter Cardinal”). In 1988, researcher Nikolai Ustinov infected himself lethally with MARV after
Authorities in Kenya warned of a new outbreak of HPV that spreads through kissing and is deadlier than HIV/Aids. [SEP] Marburg virus disease // South Africa. His girlfriend and an attending nurse were subsequently infected with MVD, but survived. A case of MARV infection occurred in 1980 in Kenya. A French man, who worked as an electrical engineer in a sugar factory in Nzoia (close to Bungoma) at the base of Mount Elgon (which contains Kitum Cave), became infected by unknown means and died shortly after admission to Nairobi Hospital. The attending physician contracted MVD, but survived. A popular science account of these cases can be found in Richard Preston’s book "The Hot Zone" (the French man is referred to under the pseudonym “Charles
Authorities in Kenya warned of a new outbreak of HPV that spreads through kissing and is deadlier than HIV/Aids. [SEP] Human papillomavirus infection // the developed world. Warts can be removed by freezing. HPV is the most common sexually transmitted infection globally. Most people are infected at some point in their lives. In 2012, about 528,000 new cases and 266,000 deaths occurred from cervical cancer worldwide. Around 85% of these occurred in the developing world. In the United States, about 27,000 cases of cancer due to HPV occur each year. About 1% of sexually active adults have genital warts. While cases of warts have been described since the time of ancient Greece, their viral nature was not discovered until 1907. Over 170 types of
Authorities in Kenya warned of a new outbreak of HPV that spreads through kissing and is deadlier than HIV/Aids. [SEP] Human papillomavirus infection // condoms, as the female condom allows for less skin contact. Studies have suggested that regular condom use can effectively limit the ongoing persistence and spread of HPV to additional genital sites in individuals already infected. The virus is relatively hardy and immune to many common disinfectants. Exposure to 90% ethanol for at least 1 minute, 2% glutaraldehyde, 30% Savlon, and/or 1% sodium hypochlorite can disinfect the pathogen. The virus is resistant to drying and heat, but is killed at and by ultraviolet radiation. There is currently no specific treatment for HPV infection. However, the viral infection, more often than not,
Authorities in Kenya warned of a new outbreak of HPV that spreads through kissing and is deadlier than HIV/Aids. [SEP] Human papillomavirus infection // repeated surgery to remove the warts may be advisable. About a dozen HPV types (including types 16, 18, 31, and 45) are called "high-risk" types because persistent infection has been linked to cancers such as cancer of the oropharynx, larynx, vulva, vagina, cervix, penis, and anus. These cancers in common involve sexually transmitted infection of HPV to the stratified epithelial tissue. Individuals infected with both HPV and HIV have an increased risk of developing cervical or anal cancer. An estimated 561,200 new cancer cases worldwide (5.2% of all new cancers) were attributable to HPV in 2002, making HPV one of
Authorities in Kenya warned of a new outbreak of HPV that spreads through kissing and is deadlier than HIV/Aids. [SEP] Anna-Lise Williamson // this publication is to identify subtypes of HIV-1 in both homosexual and heterosexual males in the Cape Town, South Africa population. The goal of this publication is to identify the prevalence and risk factors associated with HPV Infection, and HPV-16 antibody in the population of Southern Africa. Anna-Lise Williamson Anna-Lise Williamson is a Professor of Virology at the University of Cape Town. Williamson obtained her PhD from the University of Witwatersrand in 1985. Her area of expertise is human papillomavirus, but is also known on an international level for her work in developing vaccines for HIV. These vaccines have been
Authorities in Kenya warned of a new outbreak of HPV that spreads through kissing and is deadlier than HIV/Aids. [SEP] Misconceptions about HIV/AIDS // by an infected person. Saliva carries a negligible viral load, so even open-mouthed kissing is considered a low risk. However, if the infected partner or both of the performers have blood in their mouth due to cuts, open sores, or gum disease, the risk is higher. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has only recorded one case of possible HIV transmission through kissing (involving an HIV-infected man with significant gum disease and a sexual partner also with significant gum disease), and the Terence Higgins Trust says that this is essentially a no-risk situation. Other interactions that could "theoretically"
Authorities in Kenya warned of a new outbreak of HPV that spreads through kissing and is deadlier than HIV/Aids. [SEP] Human papillomavirus infection // identified types. Type 16 and 18 are two that are responsible for causing most of HPV-caused cancers. These high-risk HPVs cause 5% of the cancers in the world. In the United States, high-risk HPVs cause 3% of all cancer cases in women and 2% in men. Risk factors for persistent genital HPV infections include early age of first sexual intercourse, multiple partners, smoking, and immunosuppression. Genital HPV is typically spread by sustained direct skin-to-skin contact, with vaginal and anal sex being the most common method though transmission from oral sex can occur. Occasionally it can spread from a mother to
FDA launching major anti-tobacco campaign aimed at youth. [SEP] Truth (anti-tobacco campaign) // concept of uniting youth in a movement against tobacco companies promoted through grassroots advocacy and a youth-driven advertising campaign. In March 1998, student delegates at a meeting sponsored by Florida's Office of Tobacco Control voted to change the theme of the campaign to "truth, a generation united against tobacco." In April 1998, Florida launched a $25 million advertising campaign that included 33 television commercials, seven billboards, eight print ads and four posters. With a target audience of youth aged 12–17, the Florida "truth" campaign modeled their approach after commercial marketing to teens, and used messages that "attacked the [tobacco] industry
FDA launching major anti-tobacco campaign aimed at youth. [SEP] Regulation of nicotine marketing // risk of erectile dysfunction. These are more targeted towards younger smokers than previous campaigns. The British government spent £31 million in 2003 as part of their anti-smoking campaign. In 2005 the European Union launched the "For a life without tobacco" campaign in all its constituent countries to help people quit smoking. In 2007 and 2008, the New York City Department of Health launched a series of anti-tobacco ad campaigns to promote the city's Quitline and a free nicotine patch and gum program. The first TV spots, "Smoking is Eating You Alive" and "Smoking is Eating You and Your Kids Alive,"
FDA launching major anti-tobacco campaign aimed at youth. [SEP] Youth smoking // efficacy of these prevention programs. While there are many components that contribute to developing an effective anti-smoking campaign, an effective strategy may be to take advantage of components of various other anti-smoking campaigns. One of the major anti-smoking campaigns in existence is the Truth campaign. The age demographic this campaign targets are adolescents between the ages of twelve and seventeen. The primary method through which the Truth campaign works is to attract adolescents via eye-catching television advertisements. The Truth campaign makes use of the mass-media communication strategy known as counter-marketing which previous research has shown to be an effective method
FDA launching major anti-tobacco campaign aimed at youth. [SEP] Truth (anti-tobacco campaign) // and portrayed its executives as predatory, profit hungry, and manipulative." The ads re-framed tobacco as an addictive drug promoted by the adult-establishment, and tobacco control as a hip, rebellious, youth-led movement. The grassroots effort of the campaign involved real teenagers taking on the tobacco industry as part of the 13-day "Truth Train" tour across the state. Despite positive results, reduced funding for the program, among other factors, ultimately led to the demise of Florida's "truth" campaign. As Florida's campaign diminished, Truth Initiative (originally the American Legacy Foundation), adopted Florida's successful strategy and converted "truth" into a national campaign. Generally consistent
FDA launching major anti-tobacco campaign aimed at youth. [SEP] Truth (anti-tobacco campaign) // the 6 percent of teen smokers, to take an active role in ending the tobacco epidemic. The first campaign ad released, "Finishers", was shot in the style of a video manifesto and tells youth, "We have the power. We have the creativity. We will be the generation that ends smoking. Finish it." The spot encouraged youth to get involved in the "Finish IT" movement by superimposing the campaign logo, an "X" in an orange square, onto their Facebook profile picture. This online activism tactic is similar to that used by the Human Rights Campaign when they asked individuals to change
FDA launching major anti-tobacco campaign aimed at youth. [SEP] Youth smoking // passed restricting distribution of cigarettes and smokeless tobacco to protect children and adolescents by giving ultimate jurisdiction to the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). However, in 2000 the Supreme Court ruled that Congress, as opposed to the FDA, was ruled to have authority in to regulate tobacco. A major act passed more recently in 2009 was the Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act. This act exerts many stipulations on cigarette distribution, but specifically for youth it prohibits the sale of flavored cigarettes which may be particularly salient to youth. This act also limits tobacco product advertising to youth and
FDA launching major anti-tobacco campaign aimed at youth. [SEP] Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids // the American Heart Association, among others. Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids The Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids is an American non-profit membership organization that advocates in favor of reducing tobacco consumption. It has been called "a leading anti-tobacco organization" by "the New York Times". It was established in September 1995, with Bill Novelli as its first president. Novelli resigned from the organization in 1999 to work at the AARP. On January 1, 2000, Novelli was replaced by Matthew Myers, who has been the organization's president ever since. Organizations that helped to found the Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids included the Robert Wood Johnson
FDA launching major anti-tobacco campaign aimed at youth. [SEP] Truth (anti-tobacco campaign) // campaign developed by the Florida Tobacco Pilot Program, which ran from 1998 to 2003. Through their marketing campaign, the program set out to drive a wedge between the tobacco industry's advertising and a youth audience. The program not only assembled a team of advertising and public relations firms, but also collaborated with Floridian youth to develop a campaign that would effectively speak to their generation. Youth articulated their frustrations with the manipulative marketing tactics used by the tobacco industry, and described their ideal campaign as one that would give them facts and the truth about tobacco. From this emerged the
FDA launching major anti-tobacco campaign aimed at youth. [SEP] Truth (anti-tobacco campaign) // "What if all companies advertised like big tobacco?" Through social media feedback and focus group testing, "truth" designers learned teens respond best to "up-front and powerful messages that display courage and honesty in a forceful way." With that in mind, other edgy "truth" advertisements with various themes were produced between 2000 and 2014, including "Connect truth", "The Sunny Side of truth", "Unsweetened truth", and "Ugly truth." Prior to the launch of the Food and Drug Administration's "Real Cost" campaign in February 2014, "truth" was the only national youth tobacco prevention campaign not sponsored by the tobacco industry. In August 2014,
FDA launching major anti-tobacco campaign aimed at youth. [SEP] Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids // Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids The Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids is an American non-profit membership organization that advocates in favor of reducing tobacco consumption. It has been called "a leading anti-tobacco organization" by "the New York Times". It was established in September 1995, with Bill Novelli as its first president. Novelli resigned from the organization in 1999 to work at the AARP. On January 1, 2000, Novelli was replaced by Matthew Myers, who has been the organization's president ever since. Organizations that helped to found the Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids included the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, the American Cancer Society, and
There's a promising new HIV vaccine candidate in the pipeline [SEP] HIV vaccine // and a gp120 protein adapted for the subtype C HIV virus common in sub-Saharan Africa, and initial results showed that those who received the vaccine regimen produced strong immune responses early on. Other strategies that have progressed to phase I trials in uninfected persons include peptides, lipopeptides, DNA, an attenuated Salmonella vector, p24, etc. Specifically, candidate vaccines that induce one or more of the following are being sought: In 2011, researchers in National Biotech Centre in Madrid unveiled data from the Phase I clinical trial of their new vaccine, MVA-B. The vaccine was effective in inducing an immunological response in
There's a promising new HIV vaccine candidate in the pipeline [SEP] HIV/AIDS in China // an effective vaccine that can offer long-term protection against the wide spectrum of HIV variants that exist. Despite the fact that there are now more than 30 vaccine candidates in clinical trials (in the world), and three of these are in advance stage testing (phase IIb and phase III), many obstacles still lie in the way of the development of a truly effective HIV preventive vaccine. The genetic diversity of HIV presents an enormous challenge for researchers. And, because the virus has the ability to evade neutralizing antibodies produced by natural immunity, the standard vaccine strategy of mimicking natural infection
There's a promising new HIV vaccine candidate in the pipeline [SEP] Management of HIV/AIDS // thought that a vigorous immune response will need to be induced to clear all the remaining infected cells. Current strategies include using cytokines to restore CD4+ cell counts as well as therapeutic vaccines to prime immune responses. One such candidate vaccine is Tat Oyi, developed by Biosantech. This vaccine is based on the HIV protein tat. A brief report of their phase I/II clinical trial reported it was safe and well tolerated in 48 HIV-positive patients. Animal models have shown the generation of neutralizing antibodies and lower levels of HIV viremia. Direct-to-consumer and other advertisements for HIV drugs in the
There's a promising new HIV vaccine candidate in the pipeline [SEP] HIV/AIDS research // RV 144. In 2009, the researchers reported that this vaccine showed some efficacy in protecting recipients from HIV infection. Results of this trial give the first supporting evidence of any vaccine being effective in lowering the risk of contracting HIV. Another possible vaccine comes from a novel gene therapy that alters the CCR5 co-receptor permanently, preventing HIV from entering cells. Other vaccine trials continue worldwide. One of the most recent and most promising trials was conducted by scientists at The Scripps Research Institute (TSRI) who found a way to attach HIV-fighting antibodies to immune cells, creating a HIV-resistant cell population.
There's a promising new HIV vaccine candidate in the pipeline [SEP] HIV vaccine // 92% of the healthy subjects. In 2016, results were published of the first Phase I human clinical trial of a killed whole-HIV-1 vaccine, SAV001. HIV used in the vaccine was chemically and physically deadened through radiation. The trial, conducted in Canada in 2012, demonstrated a good safety profile and elicited antibodies to HIV-1. According to Dr. Chil-Yong Kang of Western University's Schulich School of Medicine & Dentistry in Canada, the developer of this vaccine, antibodies against gp120 and p24 increased to 8-fold and 64-fold, respectively after vaccination. "Preventative HIV vaccines" "Therapeutic HIV vaccines" Biosantech developed a therapeutic vaccine called Tat
There's a promising new HIV vaccine candidate in the pipeline [SEP] HIV vaccine // that has to date prevented clinical development of a live attenuated HIV-1 vaccine. Scientists are researching novel strategies to develop a non-virulent live attenuated HIV-1 vaccine. For example, a genetically modified form of HIV has been created in which the virus' codons (a sequence of three nucleotides that form genetic code) are manipulated to rely on an unnatural amino acid for proper protein translation, which allows it to replicate. Because this amino acid is foreign to the human body, the virus cannot reproduce. Scientists at Scripps Research found a way to attach HIV-fighting antibodies to immune cells, creating an HIV-resistant
There's a promising new HIV vaccine candidate in the pipeline [SEP] HIV vaccine // Oyi, which targets the tat protein of HIV. It was tested in France in a double-blind Phase I/II trial with 48 HIV-positive patients who had reached viral suppression on Highly Active Antiretroviral Therapy and then stopped antiretrovirals after getting the intradermal Tat Oyi vaccine. "Preventative HIV vaccines" There have been no passive preventative HIV vaccines to reach Phase III yet, but some active preventative HIV vaccine candidates have reached Phase III. "Therapeutic HIV vaccines" No therapeutic HIV vaccine candidates have reached phase 3 testing yet. A July 2012 report of the HIV Vaccines & Microbicides Resource Tracking Working Group estimates
There's a promising new HIV vaccine candidate in the pipeline [SEP] HIV vaccine // from other clades, though the pattern of recognition was not uniform among volunteers. The canarypox vector is the first candidate HIV vaccine that has induced cross-clade functional CTL responses. The first phase I trial of the candidate vaccine in Africa was launched early in 1999 with Ugandan volunteers. The study determined the extent to which Ugandan volunteers have CTL that are active against the subtypes of HIV prevalent in Uganda, A and D. In 2015, a Phase I trial called HVTN 100, chaired by two South African researchers Linda-Gail Bekker and Fatima Laher, tested the combination of a canarypox vector
There's a promising new HIV vaccine candidate in the pipeline [SEP] GeoVax // Preliminary results indicate an excellent safety profile and highly reproducible immunogenicity subsequently confirmed by the official publication above in "The Journal of Infectious Diseases". In April 2011, GeoVax Labs, Inc. in collaboration with the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID), part of the U.S. National Institutes of Health (NIH) and the HIV Vaccine Trials Network (HVTN) announced an expansion of the current Phase 2a clinical trial to include a new component. The new trial is HVTN 094 and will be conducted by the HIV Vaccine Trials Network. "Specifically, the HVTN plans to clinically test a novel vaccine product
There's a promising new HIV vaccine candidate in the pipeline [SEP] HIV/AIDS research // to confer protection against subsequent exposures to HIV, thus reducing the likelihood that the person would become infected by HIV. Currently, no effective HIV vaccine exists. Various HIV vaccines have been tested in clinical trials almost since the discovery of HIV. Only a vaccine is thought to be able to halt the pandemic. This is because a vaccine would cost less, thus being affordable for developing countries, and would not require daily treatment. However, after over 20 years of research, HIV-1 remains a difficult target for a vaccine. In 2003 a clinical trial in Thailand tested an HIV vaccine called
In the Illinois Legislature, Barack Obama "voted 'present,' instead of yes or no" on seven votes involving abortion rights. [SEP] Alan Keyes // your respect for God's will, and I think that that's what I'm doing in Illinois". Keyes, who opposes abortion in all cases "except as an inadvertent result of efforts to save the mother's life", said in a September 7, 2004 news conference that Jesus Christ would not vote for Obama because of votes that Obama—then a member of the Illinois Senate Judiciary committee and a lecturer in constitutional law at the University of Chicago Law School—cast in 2001 against a package of three anti-abortion bills that Obama argued were too broad and unconstitutional. The legislation, which provided "that a live
In the Illinois Legislature, Barack Obama "voted 'present,' instead of yes or no" on seven votes involving abortion rights. [SEP] Social policy of the Barack Obama administration // responded to the question as to when life begins, "Whether you're looking at it from a theological perspective or a scientific perspective, answering that question with specificity is above my pay grade." In the Illinois state legislature, Obama opposed the Induced Infant Liability Act and repeatedly voted against requirements and restrictions intended to stop what opponents label as "born alive" abortions. Obama said that his opposition was because of technical language he felt might have "interfered with a woman's right to choose" and said Illinois law "already required medical care in such situations." Obama voted against a bill that would
In the Illinois Legislature, Barack Obama "voted 'present,' instead of yes or no" on seven votes involving abortion rights. [SEP] Jill Stanek // Act while state senator as well as his state senate floor testimony. She posted a vote tally on her blog showing that, during a March 12, 2003, meeting of the Illinois State Senate's Health and Human Services Committee, Committee Chairman Barack Obama prevented the passage of an amendment to Bill 1082 that would have conveyed "the rights of personhood upon any fetus expelled or extracted from the womb if that fetus was capable of breathing or voluntary motion." Stanek was critical of Sam Brownback of Kansas, a leading pro-life advocate, for compromising in supporting Barack Obama's nomination of pro-choice Kathleen
In the Illinois Legislature, Barack Obama "voted 'present,' instead of yes or no" on seven votes involving abortion rights. [SEP] The Case Against Barack Obama // as a candidate appealing to reform-minded voters in the Hyde Park neighborhood of the city. The book dwells at length on Obama’s opposition to an Illinois bill that sought to protect infants “born alive,” but whose critics said it could have fundamentally undermined the right to abortion. A similar bill passed the United States Congress only after an explicit commitment to Roe v. Wade was added, which Freddoso dismisses as trivial, but which abortion rights advocates saw as crucial. A spokesman for Barack Obama's presidential campaign said the book, along with Jerome Corsi's biography, distorts the story of the candidate's
In the Illinois Legislature, Barack Obama "voted 'present,' instead of yes or no" on seven votes involving abortion rights. [SEP] Jeanne Ives // post also wrote, "In his 2008 speech, Obama drew a link between children from fatherless homes and those who stray into crime." Ives voted against House Bill 8, concerned about a possible rise in litigation the bill would fuel. P.A. 98-1050 amends the Illinois Human Rights Act ("IHRA") and creates new responsibilities for employers with respect to their pregnant workers beyond those required under federal law. On October 28, 2017, Ives announced that she would challenge incumbent Governor Bruce Rauner in the Republican primary to become Illinois Governor. Her running mate was former State Representative Richard Morthland of Cordova, Illinois.
In the Illinois Legislature, Barack Obama "voted 'present,' instead of yes or no" on seven votes involving abortion rights. [SEP] United States Senate career of Barack Obama // rival pro-choice candidates in the Democratic primary, for a series of "present" votes on late-term abortion and parental notification issues. The charge that Obama's "present" votes suggested he was not firmly pro choice was refuted by two lobbyists for pro-choice groups (including Planned Parenthood). In the general election of November 2004, Obama received 70% of the vote to Keyes's 27%, the largest victory margin for a statewide race in Illinois history. In July 2004, he wrote and delivered the keynote address at the 2004 Democratic National Convention in Boston, Massachusetts. After describing his maternal grandfather's experiences as a World War
In the Illinois Legislature, Barack Obama "voted 'present,' instead of yes or no" on seven votes involving abortion rights. [SEP] Alan Keyes // child born as a result of an abortion shall be fully recognized as a human person," passed the Republican-controlled Illinois Senate, but failed to pass out of the Democratic-controlled Illinois House Judiciary committee. After the election, Keyes declined to congratulate Obama, explaining that his refusal to congratulate Obama was "not anything personal", but was meant to make a statement against "extend[ing] false congratulations to the triumph of what we have declared to be across the line" of reasonable propriety. He said that Obama's position on moral issues regarding life and the family had crossed that line. "I'm supposed to make
In the Illinois Legislature, Barack Obama "voted 'present,' instead of yes or no" on seven votes involving abortion rights. [SEP] 2000 Illinois's 1st congressional district election // Most of Obama's support came from White Americans. In mid-October, Rush’s son, Huey, was murdered, leading Obama to put his campaign on hold. Governor George Ryan called the Illinois Legislature to a special session to re-enact a package of gun-safety bills, a pet issue of Rush, which had been overturned by the Illinois Supreme Court. Obama supported the package, but the session dragged on towards Christmas. Obama annually spent the Christmas vacation in Hawaii with his family visiting his grandmother, who raised him. Obama left Illinois, expecting the session would continue into January. However, a crucial vote took place earlier
In the Illinois Legislature, Barack Obama "voted 'present,' instead of yes or no" on seven votes involving abortion rights. [SEP] Barack Obama 2008 presidential primary campaign // And it is back to politics as usual." The January 21 CNN/Congressional Black Caucus debate in Myrtle Beach was the most heated face-to-face meeting yet between the candidates, reflecting apparent personal animosity. Clinton criticized Obama for voting "present" on many occasions while in the Illinois legislature. "It's hard to have a straight up debate with you because you never take responsibility for any vote," she said. Obama explained that Illinois had a different system than Congress and that 'present' votes had a different function and use in the Illinois Senate. Obama said that he was working to help unemployed workers
In the Illinois Legislature, Barack Obama "voted 'present,' instead of yes or no" on seven votes involving abortion rights. [SEP] Jeanne Ives // publicly funded abortion on demand bill into law in late September. The poll, conducted for Capitolfax newsletter subscribers Oct. 25–29, found Rauner leading Ives 64–19, with 16 percent undecided. The poll had a margin of error of +/-3 percent. According to the poll, 83% of Republican voters have never heard of Ives. In a guest piece in the "Daily Herald", Ives stated "We are 48th in the nation in serving those with developmental disabilities. Instead of reforming our Medicaid system, Gov. Rauner expanded it -- hurting those who need help the most." The Illinois Parents of Adults with Developmental Disabilities,
Hillary Clinton threw a tantrum, and a water glass, after NBC's "Commander-in-Chief" Forum in September 2016. [SEP] Scottie Nell Hughes // rap music artist and Hillary Clinton supporter Jay-Z begins "with a crowd throwing mazel tov cocktails." Six months later, comedian Samantha Bee poked fun at what Hughes called her "silly verbal stumble" and "slip-of-the-tongue" on Not the White House Correspondents’ Dinner. Hughes responded by demanding an apology, claiming Bee "attacked my intelligence with a cheap ‘brain damage’ insult." On September 18, 2017, Hughes sued Fox News Channel claiming she was raped by Fox Business Network host Charles Payne and was eventually fired in retaliation after reporting it. Hughes claims the subsequent two-year sexual relationship with Payne was coerced and that
Hillary Clinton threw a tantrum, and a water glass, after NBC's "Commander-in-Chief" Forum in September 2016. [SEP] Eye to Eye with Connie Chung // her son thought of then-First Lady Hillary Clinton, and, when Kathleen didn't answer right away, Connie said she could whisper, and it could be between them. Subsequently, Ms. Gingrich's microphone volume was turned up, and her reply was "He thinks she's a bitch", which sparked instant attention. Congressman Gingrich complained publicly, saying the network "took advantage" of his mother. The unwanted publicity to both Chung and CBS News contributed to Chung being dropped as co-anchor of the "Evening News" in May 1995, which prompted her to leave the network altogether. "Eye to Eye" would continue airing until that August, although
Hillary Clinton threw a tantrum, and a water glass, after NBC's "Commander-in-Chief" Forum in September 2016. [SEP] Radio and Television Correspondents' Association // Clinton"". In 1996, speaker Don Imus made coarse jokes about President Bill Clinton and Hillary Clinton, which White House Press Secretary Mike McCurry termed "tasteless". During the 2004 dinner, President George W. Bush mocked himself in a slideshow including images of him searching under furniture in the Oval Office for Iraqi weapons of mass destruction, which liberal commentator David Corn termed a "callous and arrogant display". In 2007, President George W. Bush attended the event for the third time, and JibJab premiered its latest satiric animation, "What We Call The News" On Tuesday, June 16, 2009, president Barack Obama and
Hillary Clinton threw a tantrum, and a water glass, after NBC's "Commander-in-Chief" Forum in September 2016. [SEP] 2016 New Hampshire Democratic primary // Chief Global Affairs Correspondent Martha Raddatz, it aired on ABC News. Ahead of the debate, WMUR-TV's co-sponsorship had been revoked by the DNC due to a labor dispute. Participants were Hillary Clinton, Bernie Sanders, and Martin O'Malley. The topics covered during the debate included Sanders' campaign's breach of Clinton's campaign data, strategy for defeating ISIS, gun control, the issue of whether to depose President Assad of Syria, if Wall Street favored each candidate, stability in the Middle East enforced by dictators and whether regime change was necessary, and the role of the First Spouse. A fifth forum, a Town Hall
Hillary Clinton threw a tantrum, and a water glass, after NBC's "Commander-in-Chief" Forum in September 2016. [SEP] Great America PAC // the attack, her response was a disgrace." Great America PAC spent two million dollars to produce the ad. In July 2016, Great America PAC released its third ad entitled "Leadership" featuring former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani. In the ad, Mayor Giuliani says "The world must come together and America needs to lead, yet President Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton just wants to stay the course. The incompetence Hillary Clinton displayed during the Benghazi attack and her singular focus on protecting her own reputation proves she is not ready to be commander-in-chief. We face many challenges as a nation,
Hillary Clinton threw a tantrum, and a water glass, after NBC's "Commander-in-Chief" Forum in September 2016. [SEP] Kellyanne Conway // growing frustrated by Conway's failure to become a team player." On December 1, Conway appeared with senior aides of the Trump campaign, at Harvard's Kennedy School of Government, for a forum on the 2016 presidential race; the quadrennial post-presidential election forum has been held at the School of Government since 1972. Sitting across from Conway were senior Clinton campaign aides, including Clinton's campaign manager Robby Mook. As tempers began to flare, the forum escalated into a "shouting match"; during one exchange, Clinton senior strategist Joel Benenson said "The fact of the matter is that more Americans voted for Hillary Clinton
Hillary Clinton threw a tantrum, and a water glass, after NBC's "Commander-in-Chief" Forum in September 2016. [SEP] 2016 Democratic Party presidential debates and forums // Clinton for invoking 9/11 to cover her Wall Street connections. The Democratic Party's third presidential debate ahead of the 2016 U.S. presidential election was held on December 19, 2015 at St. Anselm College, in Goffstown, New Hampshire. It aired on ABC News and was moderated by journalist David Muir, anchor of "World News Tonight", and Chief Global Affairs Correspondent Martha Raddatz. On December 11, 2015, the DNC had announced that it would revoke the sponsorship of the debate by WMUR-TV because of a labor dispute with its unionized employees. The topics covered during the debate included Sanders' campaign's breach of
Hillary Clinton threw a tantrum, and a water glass, after NBC's "Commander-in-Chief" Forum in September 2016. [SEP] Tina Fey // alongside Amy Poehler as Hillary Clinton. Their repartee included Clinton needling Palin about her "Tina Fey glasses". The sketch quickly became NBC's most-watched viral video ever, with 5.7 million views by the following Wednesday. Fey reprised this role on the show of October 4, on the show of October 18 where she was joined by the real Sarah Palin, and on the show of November 1, where she was joined by John McCain and his wife Cindy. The show of October 18 had the best ratings of any "SNL" show since 1994. The following year Fey won an Emmy in
Hillary Clinton threw a tantrum, and a water glass, after NBC's "Commander-in-Chief" Forum in September 2016. [SEP] Saturday Night Live parodies of Hillary Clinton // Tina Fey glasses!" It was during the 2008–09 season, while Poehler was playing Clinton, that Hillary Clinton herself made an appearance on the show, and faced off with Poehler as her doppelgänger. The real Sarah Palin also made a guest appearance during season 34. Kate McKinnon has portrayed Clinton regularly since March 2015 (after playing the role once prior in 2013). As of December 2016, she is the most-frequently appearing Hillary with 20 performances in the role, ahead of Amy Poehler at 19 performances, and Ana Gasteyer (at 16), despite having played it for less than half as long as
Hillary Clinton threw a tantrum, and a water glass, after NBC's "Commander-in-Chief" Forum in September 2016. [SEP] Hillary Clinton 2008 presidential campaign // to continue with the debate after the apology was offered. In a February 12 interview with Chris Plante on WMAL-AM, "former President Bill Clinton implied the media has been unfair to his wife, stated that she was standing up to sexism when she took on NBC, and -- when asked about MSNBC's David Shuster's comments about his daughter, Chelsea -- said there was a double standard." Other critics have also argued that this incident was part of a larger pattern of "sexist coverage." Clinton got an ironic supporter in conservative radio show host Rush Limbaugh. Limbaugh executed a plan for
Quarter of passengers on British cruise ship fall sick with norovirus. [SEP] Cruise ship // passengers and 0.15% of some 28 million crew members reported symptoms of the illness." The estimated likelihood of contracting gastroenteritis from any cause on an average 7-day cruise is less than 1%. In 2009, during which more than 13 million people took a cruise, there were nine reported norovirus outbreaks on cruise ships. Outbreak investigations by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention have shown that transmission among cruise ship passengers is primarily person-to-person; potable water supplies have not been implicated. In 2009, ships undergoing unannounced inspections in U.S. ports received an average CDC Vessel Sanitation Program score of
Quarter of passengers on British cruise ship fall sick with norovirus. [SEP] Cruise ship // approximately 97 out of a total possible 100 points. The minimum passing inspection score is 85. Collaboration with the CDC's Vessel Sanitation Program and the development of Outbreak Prevention and Response Plans have helped to generally decrease the incidence of norovirus outbreaks on ships. The CDC states that the reasons why noroviruses are associated with cruise ships is because "(1) Health officials track illness on cruise ships. So outbreaks are found and reported more quickly on a cruise ship than on land; (2) Close living quarters may increase the amount of group contact; and (3) New passenger arrivals may bring
Quarter of passengers on British cruise ship fall sick with norovirus. [SEP] Cruise ship // gastroenteritis in developed countries and is so widespread that only the common cold is reported more frequently. Symptoms usually last between 1 and 3 days and generally resolve without treatment or long term consequences. The incubation period of the virus averages about 24 hours. In its coverage of a 2016 CDC study regarding norovirus on cruise ships, the Journal of the American Medical Association reported that, "Perceptions that cruise ships can be luxury breeding grounds for acute gastroenteritis outbreaks don't hold water. A recent CDC report showed that from 2008 to 2014, only 0.18% of more than 73 million cruise
Quarter of passengers on British cruise ship fall sick with norovirus. [SEP] Norovirus // and 19% respectively) compared to high-mortality developing countries (14%). Proportionately it causes more illness in people in the community or in hospital outpatients (24% and 20% respectively) as compared with hospital inpatients (17%) in whom other causes are more common. Age and emergence of new norovirus strains do not appear to affect the proportion of gastroenteritis attributable to norovirus. Norovirus is a common cause of epidemics of gastroenteritis on cruise ships. The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention through its Vessel Sanitation Program record and investigate outbreaks of gastrointestinal illness—mostly caused by norovirus—on cruise ships with both a U.S.
Quarter of passengers on British cruise ship fall sick with norovirus. [SEP] MS Marco Polo // arranged charter train. On 8 July three infected people remained in Raigmore Hospital in Inverness. Some reports indicate that passengers on board "Marco Polo"s previous cruise, which terminated in Tilbury on 4 July, might also have been infected with norovirus. However, according to Transocean Tours the ship was inspected upon return to Tilbury and no infections were found, although some passengers during the cruise did suffer from gastroenteritis. The London Port Health Authority stated that they were not informed of illness on board the ship when it docked at Tilbury, and Transocean Tours could consequently face legal action. Despite Transocean
Quarter of passengers on British cruise ship fall sick with norovirus. [SEP] MV Balmoral (1987) // during a cruise, the ship sailed into rough weather in the Bay of Biscay, smashing through waves and winds. Two passengers were sent to a hospital in A Coruña, Spain, with serious injuries. There have been several outbreaks of norovirus ("the vomiting bug", unpleasant but not dangerous) on the vessel, in 2009, 2010, May 2015, and May 2016. Fred. Olsen took delivery of the ship on 7 November 2007, renaming her after the Balmoral estate. The company initiated a major refit at the Blohm + Voss repair shipyard in Hamburg, Germany, before her inaugural cruise on 13 February 2008, to
Quarter of passengers on British cruise ship fall sick with norovirus. [SEP] Cruise ship // the virus to other passengers and crew." Data for the year 2015 shows that there were just 11 outbreaks of norovirus illnesses on cruise ships.' Other pathogens which can colonise pools and spas including those on cruise ships include "Legionella", the bacterium which causes Legionnaires' disease. "Legionella", and in particular the most virulent strain, "Legionella pneumophila" serogroup 1, can cause infections when inhaled as an aerosol or aspirated. Individuals who are immunocompromised and those with pre-existing chronic respiratory and cardiac disease are more susceptible. Legionnaires' has been infrequently associated with cruise ships. The Cruise industry Vessel Sanitation Program has specific
Quarter of passengers on British cruise ship fall sick with norovirus. [SEP] Sea Princess // that the rough seas caused increased use of the handrails, contributing to the difficulty of eradicating norovirus. In January 2018, about 200 passengers were reported to have been infected with norovirus during a two-week round trip from Brisbane to New Zealand. On 28 August 2016, three Canadian nationals were arrested after "Sea Princess" berthed in Sydney Harbour. After the ship docked Australian Border Force officers along with drug sniffing dogs boarded the ship. During a search of the ship 95 kg (209 pounds) of cocaine was found packed in suitcases. The estimated value of the cocaine is $30 million AUD
Quarter of passengers on British cruise ship fall sick with norovirus. [SEP] MS Explorer of the Seas // passengers and 22 crew members aboard "Explorer of the Seas" fell ill, reporting symptoms of vomiting and diarrhea. Due to the number of passengers sick, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention sent a Sanitation Program Officer and an epidemiologist to the ship on Sunday, January 26, 2014, when it was docked in St. Thomas. By 27 January 2014 the number of ill increased to 564 passengers and 47 crew members and a decision was made to end the cruise early. After "Explorer of the Seas" returned to port, 684 of the 4,237 aboard had symptoms of norovirus. On December
Quarter of passengers on British cruise ship fall sick with norovirus. [SEP] Norovirus // vomited onto the floor. Staff quickly cleaned up, and people continued eating. Three days later others started falling ill; 52 people reported a range of symptoms, from fever and nausea to vomiting and diarrhea. The cause was not immediately identified. Researchers plotted the seating arrangement: more than 90% of the people at the same table as the sick woman later reported becoming ill. There was a direct correlation between the risk of infection of people at other tables and how close they were to the sick woman. More than 70% of the diners at an adjacent table fell ill; at
Statins tied to lower risk of fatal prostate cancer [SEP] Rahul Potluri // presented at the European Society of Cardiology, Frontiers in Cardiovascular Biology Conference in Barcelona, July 2014 and was widely reported in the global media. Further research presented in 2016 showed the role of high cholesterol and possibly the role of statins improving the mortality and survival of patients with breast cancer, lung cancer, bowel cancer and prostate cancer and strengthening calls for a clinical trial of statins in cancer. Potluri presented research from the ACALM Study Unit at the European Society of Cardiology Conference in London, August 2015, which showed that heart attack patients admitted at the weekend died earlier
Statins tied to lower risk of fatal prostate cancer [SEP] Statin // and possibly prostate cancer. They appear to have no effect on the risk of lung cancer, kidney cancer, breast cancer, pancreatic cancer, or bladder cancer. Combining any statin with a fibrate or niacin (other categories of lipid-lowering drugs) increases the risks for rhabdomyolysis to almost 6.0 per 10,000 person-years. Monitoring liver enzymes and creatine kinase is especially prudent in those on high-dose statins or in those on statin/fibrate combinations, and mandatory in the case of muscle cramps or of deterioration in kidney function. Consumption of grapefruit or grapefruit juice inhibits the metabolism of certain statins. Bitter oranges may have a
Statins tied to lower risk of fatal prostate cancer [SEP] Cardiovascular disease // with high blood pressure require more than one drug to achieve adequate reduction in blood pressure. Statins are effective in preventing further cardiovascular disease in people with a history of cardiovascular disease. As the event rate is higher in men than in women, the decrease in events is more easily seen in men than women. In those at risk, but without a history of cardiovascular disease (primary prevention), statins decrease the risk of death and combined fatal and non-fatal cardiovascular disease. The benefit, however, is small. A United States guideline recommends statins in those who have a 12% or greater
Statins tied to lower risk of fatal prostate cancer [SEP] Statin // in the number of cardiac events (heart attack, sudden cardiac death) and a 17% reduced risk of stroke after long-term treatment. A greater benefit is observed with high-intensity statin therapy. They have less effect than the fibrates or niacin in reducing triglycerides and raising HDL-cholesterol ("good cholesterol"). Statins have been studied for improving operative outcomes in cardiac and vascular surgery. Mortality and adverse cardiovascular events were reduced in statin groups. While no direct comparison exists, all statins appear effective regardless of potency or degree of cholesterol reduction. There do appear to be some differences between them, with simvastatin and pravastatin
Statins tied to lower risk of fatal prostate cancer [SEP] Statin // factors for coronary heart disease included abnormal lipid levels in the blood, diabetes mellitus, high blood pressure, and smoking. The risk of heart disease is estimated using the ACC/AHA Pooled Cohort equation. They recommended selective use of low-to-moderate doses statins in the same adults who have a calculated 10-year cardiovascular disease event risk of 7.5–10% or greater. Most evidence suggests that statins are effective in preventing heart disease in those with high cholesterol, but no history of heart disease. A 2013 Cochrane review found a decrease in risk of death and other poor outcomes without any evidence of harm. For
Statins tied to lower risk of fatal prostate cancer [SEP] Statin // other pleiotropic cardiovascular benefits of statins, as well as in the fact that a number of other drugs that lower LDL have not shown the same cardiovascular risk benefits in studies as statins, and may also account for certain of the benefits seen in cancer reduction with statins. In addition, the inhibitory effect on protein prenylation may also be involved in a number of unwanted side effects associated with statins, including muscle pain (myopathy) and elevated blood sugar (diabetes). As noted above, statins exhibit action beyond lipid-lowering activity in the prevention of atherosclerosis. The ASTEROID trial showed direct ultrasound evidence
Statins tied to lower risk of fatal prostate cancer [SEP] Statin // as fluvastatin, rosuvastatin, and pravastatin, are less toxic than lipophilic statins, such as atorvastatin, lovastatin, and simvastatin, but other studies have not found a connection. Lovastatin induces the expression of gene "atrogin-1", which is believed to be responsible in promoting muscle fiber damage. Tendon rupture does not appear to occur. The relationship between statin use and risk of developing diabetes remains unclear and the results of systematic reviews and meta-analyses are mixed. Higher doses have a greater effect, but the decrease in cardiovascular disease outweighs the risk of developing diabetes. Use in postmenopausal women is associated with an increased risk
Statins tied to lower risk of fatal prostate cancer [SEP] Statin // of atheroma regression during statin therapy. Researchers hypothesize that statins prevent cardiovascular disease via four proposed mechanisms (all subjects of a large body of biomedical research): In 2008, the JUPITER study showed benefit in those who had no history of high cholesterol or heart disease, but only elevated C-reactive protein levels. The conclusions of this study are, however, controversial. The statins are divided into two groups: fermentation-derived and synthetic. They include, along with brand names, which may vary between countries: LDL-lowering potency varies between agents. Cerivastatin is the most potent, (withdrawn from the market in August, 2001 due to risk
Statins tied to lower risk of fatal prostate cancer [SEP] Hypercholesterolemia // women. Statins can reduce total cholesterol by about 50% in the majority of people. While statins are effective in decreasing mortality in those who have had previous cardiovascular disease, debate exists over whether or not they are effective in those with high cholesterol but no other health problems. One review did not find a mortality benefit in those at high risk, but without prior cardiovascular disease. Other reviews concluded a mortality benefit does exist. Greater benefit is observed with the use of high-intensity statin therapy . Statins may improve quality of life when used in people without existing cardiovascular disease
Statins tied to lower risk of fatal prostate cancer [SEP] Heart Protection Study // one cardiovascular "event" (in those taking the drug simvastatin for 5 years). There was no mortality benefit in women with a statistical "p-value" that did not reach significance (0.08) while the Kaplan-Meier mortality curves, for men and women separately, have not been published as of 2016. Cancer risk was not significantly lower in the treatment group; in fact, there was no difference except for non-melanoma skin cancers, wherein the placebo group had a barely-significant lower risk of diagnosis. No worsening of lung disease was found, an initial concern with statin drugs, and simvastatin did not decrease osteoporosis. Heart Protection Study
The Baucus health care bill "could be used to ban guns in home self-defense. [SEP] Max Baucus // Act of 2010. In 2012, Baucus added to a transportation bill in Congress that extended the regulations covering cigarette manufacturers to "roll your own cigarette" stores that operate mass cigarette rolling machines. In 1994, Baucus cast a pivotal vote in favor of Senator Dianne Feinstein's (D-CA) "Assault Weapons" Ban. In 2013, Baucus was one of four Democrats to vote against the Manchin-Toomey Amendment to expand background checks for potential gun buyers. In 1999, Baucus was the only Democrat to vote against an amendment by Senator Frank Lautenberg (D-NJ) that sought to "regulate the sale of firearms at gun shows". Baucus
The Baucus health care bill "could be used to ban guns in home self-defense. [SEP] Chuck Schumer // to Majority Leader McConnell requesting a meeting between all senators for a discussion on the American Health Care Act, citing the need for both parties to "come together to find solutions to America's challenges." Later that month, Schumer estimated the bill had a "50/50" chance of passing in the Senate and added that Democrats were doing everything they could to fight the measure, referring to the legislation as "devastating for the middle class." While serving in the House of Representatives, Schumer, along with California senator Dianne Feinstein, authored the 1994 Assault Weapons Ban which expired in 2004. The National Rifle
The Baucus health care bill "could be used to ban guns in home self-defense. [SEP] Amanda Curtis // law. During a rally sponsored by Mayors Against Illegal Guns outside of the Montana State Capitol in August 2013, Curtis urged Montana's senior U.S. Senator Max Baucus to rethink his opposition to expanded background checks. She spoke about how gun violence has affected her own family and called for more action to be taken. During the 2013 session, Curtis was the primary sponsor for six bills that were not enacted. She was the primary sponsor of two bills that were passed and signed into law, HB 92 to remove public defender from certain court definitions, and HB 164, to revise
The Baucus health care bill "could be used to ban guns in home self-defense. [SEP] Chuck Grassley // and ongoing sponsoring and authoring of legislature. Grassley is a staunch believer that gun laws will not prevent gun deaths or gun-related violence without improved mental health care. In 2016, one month after the Orlando nightclub shooting, Grassley proposed legislation to expand state-to-state access to background check data and to make it illegal for government officials to sell criminals guns as part of sting operations. Both proposals were rejected by the Senate. Additionally, he voted against the Democrat's Feinstein Amendment, which would make it illegal to sell guns to individuals on the terror watchlist and a Republican-sponsored bill that expanded
The Baucus health care bill "could be used to ban guns in home self-defense. [SEP] Gun Owners of America // to restrict or tax Second Amendment rights. If they attempt to do so, the U.S. can withdraw their funds from the organization. This bill, HR-2764, also known as the Consolidated Appropriations Act, passed by an 81–10 vote. On February 25, 2008, Senator Jim DeMint amended bill S-1200, the Indian Health Care Improvement Act. The act stated that the funds were to be used for "violence prevention". Once the funds were attempted to be used for gun buybacks, DeMint pushed through an amendment to the act stating that the money cannot be used for any anti-gun programs. The bill passed by
The Baucus health care bill "could be used to ban guns in home self-defense. [SEP] Erik Paulsen // to bringing gun safety bills to the House floor. In February 2018, Paulsen said he would support a ban on bump stocks, strengthened background checks, a lifting of the ban on federal research for gun violence, and gun violence restraining orders. In May 2018, Paulsen co-sponsored the Jake Laird Act, which provides grants to encourage states to adopt gun violence restraining order laws. Gun violence restraining orders enable local law enforcement to seize and retain firearms from people who are determined to be an imminent danger to themselves or others. In December 2017, Paulsen voted in favor of the Concealed
The Baucus health care bill "could be used to ban guns in home self-defense. [SEP] Jason Brodeur // endorsed Cruz, urging voters to "steer clear" of Brodeur. In the end, Brodeur overwhelmingly defeated Cruz and Perez, winning nearly 60% of the vote. While serving in the legislature, Brodeur sponsored legislation that would make it a crime for doctors to ask their patients about "gun ownership and gun habits," based on the concern that such information would be received by the government or insurance companies, which "could lead to higher insurance premiums for gun owners or a national gun registry." In 2012, the Florida House districts were redrawn, and Brodeur opted to run for re-election in the 28th District.
The Baucus health care bill "could be used to ban guns in home self-defense. [SEP] Mike Turzai // stolen firearm to law enforcement within three days of discovering it missing. On October 5, 2010, he voted in favor of HB 40 (Self Defense Law Amendments), which passed the House by a vote of 159-38. The bill would have expanded the sets of circumstances in which a person would be allowed to use force for self-defense. In October 2014, Turzai voted in favor of HB 1243 (Authorizes Civil Action against Local Firearm Laws). The bill would have authorized "any 'individual adversely affected' by any firearm law enacted by a county, municipality, or township to seek declaratory or injunctive relief
The Baucus health care bill "could be used to ban guns in home self-defense. [SEP] Timothy R. Ferguson // forces in the state, and pro-gun Senators used that omission in the bill as proof that a "Dumb Gun" was more dependable for purposes of self-defense. Out of 47 Maryland Senators, 21 signed on to a filibuster against the "Smart Gun" legislation. At that time, it took 16 Senators to sustain a filibuster. When the Democrat majority had the "Smart Gun" bill removed from the committee where Ferguson had it bottled up, and where it would have died, the bill hit the floor of the Senate where it was immediately amended into a "Child Safety-Lock Handgun" bill and all the
The Baucus health care bill "could be used to ban guns in home self-defense. [SEP] Roy Blunt // Republican-sponsored bills. The first was proposed by John Cornyn and would have enabled a 72-hour waiting period for federal authorities to investigate individuals seeking to buy guns who are listed on the terrorist watch list. The second bill was proposed by Chuck Grassley would have expanded background checks and made it illegal for individuals with certain mental health disorders to purchase guns. Neither bill passed. Blunt voted against two Democrat-sponsored bills, both which also did not pass, including one that would have made background checks required for online gun sales and gun sales at gun shows and another that would
As a student at Occidental College in Los Angeles from 1979 to 1981, "there were days where folks couldn't go outside. … because of all the pollution in the air. [SEP] Mary D. Nichols // from Cornell University in 1966 and her J.D. from Yale Law School in 1971. She passed the California Bar the next year. In 1972, as a new lawyer at a small public interest firm, she was approached by the City of Riverside, where the highest levels of ozone had been recorded, about suing Los Angeles over its air pollution. Instead she brought this suit against the United States federal government, arguing that under the Clean Air Act, the United States Environmental Protection Agency must force California to develop a stringent plan to deal with air pollution in Los Angeles. She
As a student at Occidental College in Los Angeles from 1979 to 1981, "there were days where folks couldn't go outside. … because of all the pollution in the air. [SEP] Operating Industries Inc., Landfill // controlled. For several years prior to ending the in-home monitoring program in 2001, EPA saw no evidence of an indoor air problem in any of the homes tested. Subsequently, gas collection systems were removed from homes and periodic random sampling was terminated. In 1986, the Los Angeles County and California Department of Health Services conducted a study comparing the health of individuals living near the OII Landfill and those living further away. Accounting for overall mortality, cancer, liver disease, and pregnancy complications, the results showed no major medical problems arising from consistent exposure to the landfill. However, landfill-neighboring residents reported
As a student at Occidental College in Los Angeles from 1979 to 1981, "there were days where folks couldn't go outside. … because of all the pollution in the air. [SEP] Air Pollution Control Act // based on topographical and meteorological facets of air pollution. California was the first state to act against air pollution when the metropolis of Los Angeles began to notice deteriorating air quality. The location of Los Angeles furthered the problem as several geographical and meteorological problems unique to the area exacerbated the air pollution problem. Prior to the Air Pollution Control Act of 1955, little headway was made to initiate this air pollution reform. U.S. cities Chicago and Cincinnati first established smoke ordinances in 1881. In 1904, Philadelphia passed an ordinance limiting the amount of smoke in flues, chimneys, and open
As a student at Occidental College in Los Angeles from 1979 to 1981, "there were days where folks couldn't go outside. … because of all the pollution in the air. [SEP] Rolf Heinrich Sabersky // with was the study of indoor air quality that involved smog and ozone. Frederick H. Shair assisted with these efforts. Gordon Peterson was the student that drove his automobile over the Los Angeles freeways to measure the ozone levels and record the data inside his vehicle. Rolf Heinrich Sabersky Rolf Heinrich Sabersky (October 20, 1920 – October 24, 2016) was professor emeritus in mechanical engineering at Caltech. He worked with luminaries throughout his career including Apollo M. O. Smith and Theodore von Kármán at Aerojet. James Van Allan sought his expertise for the development of the Ajax and Bumblebee rocket
As a student at Occidental College in Los Angeles from 1979 to 1981, "there were days where folks couldn't go outside. … because of all the pollution in the air. [SEP] History of California 1900–present // by the early 1970s also caused a backlash. With schools being closed routinely in urban areas for "smog days" when the ozone levels became too unhealthy and the hills surrounding urban areas seldom visible even within a mile, Californians were ready for changes. Over the next three decades, California enacted some of the strictest anti-smog regulations in the United States and has been a leader in encouraging nonpolluting strategies for various industries, including automobiles. For example, carpool lanes normally allow only vehicles with two/three or more occupants (whether the base number is two or three depends on what freeway you
As a student at Occidental College in Los Angeles from 1979 to 1981, "there were days where folks couldn't go outside. … because of all the pollution in the air. [SEP] National Air Pollution Symposium // early climate change legislation including the Air Pollution Control Act of 1955. National Air Pollution Symposium The National Air Pollution Symposium was held on November 10–11, 1949 in Pasadena, California by the Stanford Research Institute (now SRI International), along with assistance from the California Institute of Technology, the University of Southern California and the University of California. SRI had performed much of the early research on air pollution and the formation of ozone in the lower atmosphere. About 400 scientists, businessmen, and politicians attended the event, which was the first event of its kind. The conference (and subsequent conferences) spurred
As a student at Occidental College in Los Angeles from 1979 to 1981, "there were days where folks couldn't go outside. … because of all the pollution in the air. [SEP] Arts District, Los Angeles // passed a live/work legislation and in 1981 Los Angeles passed the bill Artist-In-Residence (AIR) . This new bill AIR would allow artists to live legally in the areas that could no longer be used for industrial use as long as they attained a business license. To make the living standards more comfortable the building code was lifted.New regulations had been created and the AIR legislation required the lofts to have a room to sleep, fire alarm, and other requirements for them to live legally. In 1969, Allen Ruppersberg presented "Al's Cafe" at 1913 West Sixth Street. In the mid-'70s, a
As a student at Occidental College in Los Angeles from 1979 to 1981, "there were days where folks couldn't go outside. … because of all the pollution in the air. [SEP] Leslie Parrish // Angeles’ severe smog, and the reason for it, worried her. In 1979, she and her then-husband, Richard Bach, built an experimental home in southwest Oregon using 100% solar power ― no cooling or heating systems ― only solar power to prove it could be done. While living in Oregon, Parrish saw devastated forests managed by the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) and decided to protest a local timber sale. With two neighbors, she and Richard established an organization called "Threatened and Endangered: Little Applegate Valley" (TELAV). They worked for two years researching and writing a 600-page legal-and- scientifically-based protest of
As a student at Occidental College in Los Angeles from 1979 to 1981, "there were days where folks couldn't go outside. … because of all the pollution in the air. [SEP] Indoor air pollution in developing nations // felt needs, cultural significance of food, and religious and cultural beliefs. Evidence of one successful government intervention was revealed by China who, between 1980 and 1995, disseminated 172 million improved cookstoves. This effort proved more successful due to the inclusion of local users, particularly women, who were involved in the design and fieldwork process. Children up to five years of age spend 90% of their time at home. Globally, 50% of pneumonia deaths among children under five years of age are due to particulate matter inhaled from indoor air pollution. Many homes around the world used solid fuels for cooking.
As a student at Occidental College in Los Angeles from 1979 to 1981, "there were days where folks couldn't go outside. … because of all the pollution in the air. [SEP] Concerns and controversies at the 2008 Summer Olympics // that outdoor endurance events—defined as those that include at least an hour of continuous, high-intensity physical effort—may pose some risk. In spite of such efforts, several countries indicated that their athletes would arrive at the games as late as possible to limit exposure to pollution. Many teams set up offshore training camps in neighbouring countries to avoid the pollution. The pollution prompted several athletes to change events or opt out: for example, Ethiopian long-distance runner Haile Gebrselassie withdrew from the marathon and ran the 10,000 meters instead, to reduce the risk of harm to himself because of his asthma, and
Migraine drug could halve the length of attacks, study shows [SEP] Headache // many different possible treatments. In those with chronic headaches the long term use of opioids appears to result in greater harm than benefit. Migraine can be somewhat improved by lifestyle changes, but most people require medicines to control their symptoms. Medications are either to prevent getting migraines, or to reduce symptoms once a migraine starts. Preventive medications are generally recommended when people have more than four attacks of migraine per month, headaches last longer than 12 hours or the headaches are very disabling. Possible therapies include beta blockers, antidepressants, anticonvulsants and NSAIDs. The type of preventive medicine is usually chosen
Migraine drug could halve the length of attacks, study shows [SEP] Migraine // Prevention is recommended in those who have headaches more than two days a week, cannot tolerate the medications used to treat acute attacks, or those with severe attacks that are not easily controlled. The goal is to reduce the frequency, painfulness, and/or duration of migraines, and to increase the effectiveness of abortive therapy. Another reason for prevention is to avoid medication overuse headache. This is a common problem and can result in chronic daily headache. Preventive migraine medications are considered effective if they reduce the frequency or severity of the migraine attacks by at least 50%. Guidelines are fairly consistent
Migraine drug could halve the length of attacks, study shows [SEP] Prevention of migraines // not have to be taken indefinitely. Sometimes as little as six months of preventive therapy is enough to "break the headache cycle" and then they can be discontinued. The most effective prescription medications include several drug classes. A meta-analysis found that propranolol had an "overall relative risk of response to treatment (here called the 'responder ratio')" was 1.94. Anticonvulsants such as valproic acid and topiramate. A meta-analysis by the Cochrane Collaboration of ten randomized controlled trials or crossover studies, which together included 1341 patients, found anticonvulsants had an "2.4 times more likely to experience a 50% or greater reduction in
Migraine drug could halve the length of attacks, study shows [SEP] Migraine // to standard treatment of a migraine attack, is associated with a 26% decrease in headache recurrence in the following 72 hours. Spinal manipulation for treating an ongoing migraine headache is not supported by evidence. It is recommended that opioids and barbiturates not be used due to questionable efficacy, addictive potential, and the risk of rebound headache. Ibuprofen helps decrease pain in children with migraines. Paracetamol does not appear to be effective in providing pain relief. Triptans are effective, though there is a risk of causing minor side effects like taste disturbance, nasal symptoms, dizziness, fatigue, low energy, nausea, or vomiting.
Migraine drug could halve the length of attacks, study shows [SEP] Migraine treatment // but they are an exceedingly potent cause of medication overuse headaches if used more than 10 days per month. Ergotamine and dihydroergotamine (DHE) are older medications still prescribed for migraines, the latter in nasal spray and injectable forms. They appear equally effective to the triptans, are less expensive, and experience adverse effects that typically are benign. In the most debilitating cases, such as those with status migrainosus, they appear to be the most effective treatment option. The most common adverse effects are nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, generalized weakness, tiredness, malaise, paresthesia, coldness, muscle pains, diarrhea, and chest tightness. These are
Migraine drug could halve the length of attacks, study shows [SEP] Migraine treatment // with chronic migraine Preventive drugs are used to reduce the frequency, duration, and severity of migraine attacks. Because of frequent unpleasant and sometimes debilitating side effects, preventive drugs are only prescribed for those migraineurs whose quality of life is significantly adversely affected. The most commonly prescribed drugs for migraine prevention are beta-blockers, antidepressants, and anticonvulsants. The drugs are started at a low dose, which is gradually increased until therapeutic effects develop, the ceiling dose for the chosen drug is reached, or side effects become intolerable. The beta-blocker propranalol's effectiveness in headache treatment was a chance finding in patients receiving the
Migraine drug could halve the length of attacks, study shows [SEP] Prevention of migraines // to determine their efficacy in reducing the frequency or severity of migraine attacks. These drugs include beta-blockers, calcium antagonists, neurostabalizers, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), tricyclic antidepressants, selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), other antidepressants, and other specialized drug therapies. The US Headache Consortium lists five drugs as having medium to high efficacy: amitriptyline, divalproex, timolol, propranolol and topiramate. Lower efficacy drugs listed include aspirin, atenolol, fenoprofen, flurbiprofen, fluoxetine, gabapentin, ketoprofen, metoprolol, nadolol, naproxen, nimodipine, verapamil and Botulinum A. Additionally, most antidepressants (tricyclic, SSRIs and others such as Bupropion) are listed as "clinically efficacious based on consensus of experience" without scientific support.
Migraine drug could halve the length of attacks, study shows [SEP] Migraine treatment // significant reductions in the frequency of migraine episodes in patients with 3-12 headaches a month Adverse reactions related to topiramate treatment occurred in 82.5% of 328 subjects who took part in an extensive trial covering 46 different centres. Most commonly reported were paresthesia (28.8%), upper respiratory tract infection (13.8%, and fatigue (11.9%) The two main methods of rescue treatment are trigger avoidance, and acute symptomatic control with medication. Medications are more effective if used earlier in an attack. A serious potential problem with the frequent use of medications is the possible development of medication overuse headache, in which the headaches
Migraine drug could halve the length of attacks, study shows [SEP] Migraine // as triptans or ergotamines may be used in those for whom simple pain medications are not effective. Caffeine may be added to the above. A number of medications are useful to prevent attacks including metoprolol, valproate, and topiramate. Globally, approximately 15% of people are affected by migraines. It most often starts at puberty and is worst during middle age. In some women they become less common following menopause. As of 2016 it is one of the most common causes of disability. An early description consistent with migraines is contained in the Ebers papyrus, written around 1500 BCE in ancient Egypt.
Migraine drug could halve the length of attacks, study shows [SEP] Migraine // by around a third. Negative impacts also frequently occur for a person's family. Calcitonin gene related peptides (CGRPs) have been found to play a role in the pathogenesis of the pain associated with migraine. CGRP receptor antagonists, such as olcegepant and telcagepant, have been investigated both "in vitro" and in clinical studies for the treatment of migraine. In 2011, Merck stopped phase III clinical trials for their investigational drug telcagepant. Research as of 2016 is looking at CGRP monoclonal antibodies, of which four are in phase II development, three targeting CGRP itself and one targeting the receptor. Transcranial magnetic stimulation
Planned Parenthood is the biggest abortion provider in the country. [SEP] Planned Parenthood // provide abortions. Planned Parenthood is the largest single provider of abortions in the U.S., but pro-choice advocates have argued that the organization's family planning services reduce the need for abortions; in the words of Megan Crepeau of the "Chicago Tribune", Planned Parenthood could be "characterized as America's largest abortion preventer". Pro-life activists dispute the evidence that greater access to contraceptives reduces abortion frequency. Periodically, pro-life advocates and activists have tried to demonstrate that Planned Parenthood does not follow applicable state or federal laws. The groups called or visited Planned Parenthood health centers posing as victims of statutory rape, minors who
Planned Parenthood is the biggest abortion provider in the country. [SEP] Planned Parenthood // over 600 health clinics in the U.S. It partners with organizations in 12 countries globally. The organization directly provides a variety of reproductive health services and sexual education, contributes to research in reproductive technology and advocates for the protection and expansion of reproductive rights. PPFA is the largest single provider of reproductive health services, including abortion, in the U.S. In their 2014 Annual Report, PPFA reported seeing over 2.5million patients in over 4million clinical visits and performing a total of nearly 9.5million discrete services including 324,000 abortions. Its combined annual revenue is , including approximately in government funding such as
Planned Parenthood is the biggest abortion provider in the country. [SEP] WESA (FM) // In exchange for a gift in excess of $5,000, WDUQ began airing a series of ads for Planned Parenthood on October 8, 2007 that focused on breast and cervical cancer screening, STD treatment, and abstinence education, and which did not mention abortion-related services; Planned Parenthood, however, is the largest provider of abortions in the United States. On October 10, Duquesne University President Dr. Charles J. Dougherty ordered the station to return the money and cease airing the ads, citing conflict with the university's Catholic identity. Duquesne University announced in January 2010 that it would be searching for options to sell
Planned Parenthood is the biggest abortion provider in the country. [SEP] Carly Fiorina 2016 presidential campaign // funding for Planned Parenthood, the largest single provider of abortions in the United States, performing over 300,000 per year. The use of federal funds for abortions is mostly banned under current law. During the September 16, 2015, GOP presidential candidates' debate on "CNN", Fiorina criticized Planned Parenthood for their involvement in abortions. She referred to the secret recordings made by The Center for Medical Progress (CMP), and stated: According to "The Wall Street Journal", "there was never any video that depicted, as Ms. Fiorina stated, a live fetus on a table being prepared for organ harvesting." PolitiFact.com noted that the
Planned Parenthood is the biggest abortion provider in the country. [SEP] Karen Handel // president of public policy at breast cancer charity Susan G. Komen for the Cure ("Komen"). In this position she was responsible for leading the organization’s federal and state advocacy efforts, including management of Advocacy Alliance. At the end of January 2012, Komen stated it would cut ties with Planned Parenthood, the largest single provider of abortion services in the U.S. The organization attributed the decision to a newly adopted policy not to fund organizations under investigation by a government agency. Republicans in Congress initiated an investigation into Planned Parenthood's alleged usage of federal funds to finance the organization's abortion services.
Planned Parenthood is the biggest abortion provider in the country. [SEP] American Family Planning // the frequent anti-abortion protests there. American Family Planning American Family Planning, formerly known as The Ladies Center and as Community Healthcare Center, is a clinic in Pensacola, Florida providing abortions and other women's healthcare services. It is notable as the site of a number of acts of anti-abortion violence. Perhaps best-known was the 1994 murder of Dr. John Britton. Britton was a physician working at the clinic; he and his escort James Barrett were shot to death as they arrived on July 29 by anti-abortion protester Paul Jennings Hill. Barrett's wife June was also wounded. Previously, the clinic had been
Planned Parenthood is the biggest abortion provider in the country. [SEP] Ruth Lockhart // until her retirement in May 2015. The center opened with the goal of promoting abortion rights and health care for lesbians, and was regularly picketed. In 1997 prenatal care was added to its list of services. By 2003, the center had serviced 2,400 clients. In 2015 Lockhart said that while they "proudly give abortions", approximately 70 percent of the center's activity related to obstetrics and gynaecology. Lockhart oversaw the center's relocation to a larger, facility in Bangor in December 2005. Lockhart served as chair of the Maine Choice Coalition. Lockhart served as executive director of Big Brothers, Big Sisters of
Planned Parenthood is the biggest abortion provider in the country. [SEP] American Family Planning // American Family Planning American Family Planning, formerly known as The Ladies Center and as Community Healthcare Center, is a clinic in Pensacola, Florida providing abortions and other women's healthcare services. It is notable as the site of a number of acts of anti-abortion violence. Perhaps best-known was the 1994 murder of Dr. John Britton. Britton was a physician working at the clinic; he and his escort James Barrett were shot to death as they arrived on July 29 by anti-abortion protester Paul Jennings Hill. Barrett's wife June was also wounded. Previously, the clinic had been bombed twice in 1984; a
Planned Parenthood is the biggest abortion provider in the country. [SEP] Crisis pregnancy center // more than one network. US based Care Net and Heartbeat International are the world's two largest CPC networks with about 3,000 associated centers between them in the United States and abroad. The largest UK organisations are CareConfidential and LIFE, while the largest Canadian one is the Canadian Association of Pregnancy Support Services (CAPSS). Human Life International, a Catholic group opposed to abortion, also runs CPCs outside the United States. In Ireland, centres not affiliated with the government exist that attempt to persuade women not to have an abortion. These have been reported to "use manipulation and alarmist information", including false
Planned Parenthood is the biggest abortion provider in the country. [SEP] Planned Parenthood // John D. Rockefeller III, Katharine Hepburn, Jane Fonda, Hillary Clinton, and Ted Turner. The services provided by PPFA affiliates vary by location, with just over half of all Planned Parenthood affiliates in the U.S. performing abortions. Services provided by PPFA include birth control and long-acting reversible contraception; emergency contraception; clinical breast examinations; cervical cancer screening; pregnancy testing and pregnancy options counseling; testing and treatment for sexually transmitted infections; sex education; vasectomies; LGBT services; and abortion. Contrary to the assumption of some, Planned Parenthood conducts cancer screenings but does not provide mammograms. In 2013, PPFA reported seeing 2.7million patients in 4.6million
Ed Garvey Says he has exposed plans by Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker to push legislation that would allow the state to declare financial martial law and take over municipal governments. [SEP] Scott Walker (politician) // according to the "Associated Press". Walker became a figure of national recognition and controversy after he proposed the "Wisconsin budget repair bill" in 2011. The bill, which would eventually be passed by the Wisconsin Legislature, significantly changed the collective bargaining process for most public employees in Wisconsin. Opponents of Walker's actions launched a push for a recall election and received enough support to force an election on June 5, 2012, the first time a Governor of Wisconsin had ever faced recall. During Walker's first term as governor, the state's $3.6 billion budget deficit was turned into a surplus and taxes
Ed Garvey Says he has exposed plans by Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker to push legislation that would allow the state to declare financial martial law and take over municipal governments. [SEP] Scott Walker (politician) // could not become law until the Secretary of State took action, and the entire law was published in the state newspaper of record, the "Wisconsin State Journal". Sumi subsequently clarified that, pursuant to her order, the bill could not be considered to be published, pending completion of court review. On May 26, Judge Sumi struck down the budget repair bill, finding that its passage was in violation of state open meetings laws. The Wisconsin Supreme Court overturned Sumi's ruling on June 14. Walker claimed the measures would "save jobs, protect taxpayers, reform government and help balance the budget." He added,
Ed Garvey Says he has exposed plans by Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker to push legislation that would allow the state to declare financial martial law and take over municipal governments. [SEP] 2011 Wisconsin protests // Judge Sumi ruled that an "arm of the state can not sue the state." On April 9, demonstrators marched from the Capitol to the offices of the state business lobby, Wisconsin Manufacturers and Commerce. The action was sparked in part by attention given to Charles and David Koch, billionaire brothers and conservative activists, who had supported Governor Walker. On April 13, the Hudson, Wisconsin Board of Education announced punishments ranging from one-day unpaid suspensions up to 15 days for teachers who called in sick on February 18, forcing their schools to close during the protests over the budget repair bill.
Ed Garvey Says he has exposed plans by Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker to push legislation that would allow the state to declare financial martial law and take over municipal governments. [SEP] 2011 Wisconsin protests // in the 2011 Wisconsin protests. Later, a Deputy Prosecutor in Johnson County, Indiana, Carlos Lam, suggested that Governor Walker should mount a "false flag" operation that would make it "appear" as if the union was committing violence. After initially claiming that his email account was hacked, Lam admitted to making the suggestion and resigned. Cullen Werwie, press secretary for Governor Walker, stated that Walker's office was unaware of Lam's email. CBS News reported that Werwie commented, "Certainly we do not support the actions suggested in (the) email. Governor Walker has said time and again that the protesters have every right
Ed Garvey Says he has exposed plans by Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker to push legislation that would allow the state to declare financial martial law and take over municipal governments. [SEP] 2011 Wisconsin protests // March 4, Governor Walker threatened to send layoff notices to 1,500 state employees if the budget repair bill was not passed. According to Walker, this move was needed to save the state $30 million. However, in the fake call, Walker had discussed using the threat of layoffs as a political weapon to put pressure on the Senate Democrats, saying "We might ratchet that up a little bit, you know." On March 5, filmmaker Michael Moore spoke to a crowd of 50,000 protesters, drawing cheers from the crowd as he repeatedly said, "America is not broke," and adding, "The country is
Ed Garvey Says he has exposed plans by Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker to push legislation that would allow the state to declare financial martial law and take over municipal governments. [SEP] Ed Garvey // Kasten by a small margin after a very bitter election. In an unsuccessful bid for Wisconsin governor in 1998 against three-term incumbent Tommy G. Thompson, Garvey sought to highlight campaign finance reform and limited contributions to his campaign to a fixed amount per donor. Thompson won by a wide margin. Garvey died in a nursing home in Verona, Wisconsin. Ed Garvey Edward R. Garvey (April 18, 1940 – February 22, 2017) was an American lawyer, politician and activist. Garvey graduated from the University of Wisconsin (now the University of Wisconsin–Madison) and spent two years in the U.S. Army; he then
Ed Garvey Says he has exposed plans by Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker to push legislation that would allow the state to declare financial martial law and take over municipal governments. [SEP] Scott Walker (politician) // the law on resolving labor disputes with local government employees needed to be reformed. Walker received the endorsements of Wisconsin Right to Life and "The Milwaukee Sentinel", which called him a fiscal conservative and noted his pro-life, tough-on-crime, and pro-welfare reform positions. He was re-elected four times, serving until 2002 when he became a county executive. While in the state assembly, he was interested in criminal justice matters and chaired the Committees on Correctional Facilities, and Corrections and the Courts. Over the years, he served on a number of other committees, including Health, Census and Redistricting, Financial Institutions, and Housing.
Ed Garvey Says he has exposed plans by Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker to push legislation that would allow the state to declare financial martial law and take over municipal governments. [SEP] Scott Walker (politician) // excluding when immediate danger existed to the life of the mother. As Governor of Wisconsin, Walker has received grades of B in 2012 and B in 2014 from the Cato Institute, a libertarian think tank, in their biennial Fiscal Policy Report Card on America's Governors. Walker moved to weaken tenure for professors at the University of Wisconsin and to cut its funding, while offering authority to reduce spending. He recommended deleting parts of the system's mission that contribute to the Wisconsin Idea. Parts of the mission proposed for deletion, such as the "search for truth," were to be replaced with
Ed Garvey Says he has exposed plans by Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker to push legislation that would allow the state to declare financial martial law and take over municipal governments. [SEP] 2011 Wisconsin protests // repair bill, said board president Gary Williams, "whatever we proposed will be consistent with the governor's repair bill." Boycotts were implemented by opponents of Governor Walker's budget repair bill and other reforms by boycotting businesses whose executives had made political contributions to Walker. Boycotters said they wanted the companies to take a public position on Walker's bill, but some of the boycotted businesses did not do so. M&I Bank, one of the boycotted businesses, issued a statement that its employees contributed to both candidates in the last election. One labor union consortium consisting of the state's largest police and fire
Ed Garvey Says he has exposed plans by Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker to push legislation that would allow the state to declare financial martial law and take over municipal governments. [SEP] 2011 Wisconsin protests // protest came on the first day that higher pension and health contributions kick in for state employees. In December 2011, a man was recorded threatening a Recall Walker signature gatherer. He was later charged with disorderly conduct for doing so. The state supreme court race between 12-year incumbent David Prosser, Jr. and challenger Assistant Attorney General JoAnne Kloppenburg was widely seen as a referendum on Governor Walker's proposed budget reforms in Wisconsin, with labor organizations and tea party groups explicitly making the connection while Governor Walker himself stating it was not. On Tuesday, April 5, one seat in the Wisconsin
Cancer risk seen with J&J foot gel: FDA. [SEP] Tacrolimus // lymphoma and skin cancers. The risk appears to be related to the intensity and duration of treatment. The most common adverse events associated with the use of topical tacrolimus ointments, especially if used over a wide area, include a burning or itching sensation on the initial applications, with increased sensitivity to sunlight and heat on the affected areas. Less common are flu-like symptoms, headache, cough, and burning eyes. Tacrolimus and a related drug for eczema (pimecrolimus) were suspected of carrying a cancer risk, though the matter is still a subject of controversy. The FDA issued a health warning in March
Cancer risk seen with J&J foot gel: FDA. [SEP] Johnson's Baby // 2016, J&J was ordered to pay $72 million in damages to the family of Jackie Fox, a 62-year-old woman who died of ovarian cancer in 2015. She had used Johnson's Baby Powder for many years. J&J claimed that the safety of cosmetic talc is supported by decades of scientific evidence and it plans to appeal the verdict. The British charity, Ovacome was quoted as saying that while there were 16 studies which showed that using talc increased the risk of ovarian cancer by around a third, and a 2013 review of US studies had similar results for genital, but not
Cancer risk seen with J&J foot gel: FDA. [SEP] Pimecrolimus // real concern and they are increasingly recommending the use of such new drugs. Importantly, although the FDA has approved updated black-box warning for tacrolimus and pimecrolimus, the recent report of the American Academy of Dermatology Association Task Force finds that there is no causal proof that topical immunomodulators cause lymphoma or nonmelanoma skin cancer, and systemic immunosuppression after short-term or intermittent long-term topical application seems an unlikely mechanism. Another recent review of evidence concluded that postmarketing surveillance shows no evidence for this systemic immunosuppression or increased risk for any malignancy. However, strong debates and controversies continue regarding the exact indications
Cancer risk seen with J&J foot gel: FDA. [SEP] Squamous cell skin cancer // much more aggressive, regardless of their location. The risk of SCC, and non-melanoma skin cancers generally, varies with the immunosuppressive drug regimen chosen. The risk is greatest with calcineurin inhibitors like cyclosporine and tacrolimus, and least with mTOR inhibitors, such as sirolimus and everolimus. The antimetabolites azathioprine and mycophenolic acid have an intermediate risk profile. Diagnosis is confirmed via biopsy of the tissue(s) suspected to be affected by SCC. For the skin, look under skin biopsy. The pathological appearance of a squamous cell cancer varies with the depth of the biopsy. For that reason, a biopsy including the subcutaneous tissue
Cancer risk seen with J&J foot gel: FDA. [SEP] Modified risk tobacco product // make reduced risk claims or change warning label statements. , the FDA has accepted no applications for MRTP status and denied 18 applications. All applications for MRTP status to date have been for snus products, except for a single application for a heat-not-burn tobacco product (Philip Morris' iQOS). An MRTP application submitted by smokeless tobacco maker Swedish Match in 2014 was the first ever accepted for review by the FDA. On June 11, the 135,000-page MRTP application was submitted electronically to the FDA in compliance with formatting and data requirements. Swedish Match sought approval to remove warnings about mouth cancer,
Cancer risk seen with J&J foot gel: FDA. [SEP] Sunscreen Innovation Act // adjusted annually for inflation). The Melanoma Research Alliance supported the bill. In a video produced by the group, a melanoma survivor said that "when I heard that there were actually ingredients that the FDA is basically holding hostage, it infuriates me, it's crazy." The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reported that in 2010 over 60,000 Americans were diagnosed with melanoma. The most common form of cancer in the United States is skin cancer. In 2009, chemical company and sunscreen manufacturer Ashland Inc. "significantly expanded its existing sunscreen production facilities in Columbus, Ohio, after the FDA announced it expected to
Cancer risk seen with J&J foot gel: FDA. [SEP] Johnson & Johnson // still went ahead and made the product available. In February 2016, J&J was ordered to pay $72 million in damages to the family of Jacqueline Fox, a 62-year-old woman who died of ovarian cancer in 2015: the company said it would appeal. By March 2017, over 1,000 U.S. women had sued J&J for covering up the possible cancer risk from its Baby Powder product; the company says that 70 percent of its Baby Powder is used by adults. In August 2017, a California jury ordered Johnson & Johnson to pay $417 million to a woman who claimed she developed ovarian
Cancer risk seen with J&J foot gel: FDA. [SEP] Regeneron // of adult patients' atopic dermatitis. Approved by FDA on 28 March 2017. It is reported to cost $37,000 per year. KEVZARA (sarilumab injection) is an interleukin-6 (IL-6) receptor antagonist for treatment of adult patients with rheumatoid arthritis. Approved by FDA on 22 May 2017. LIBTAYO (cemiplimab injection) is a monoclonal antibody targeting the PD-1 pathway as a checkpoint inhibitor, for the treatment of patients with metastatic cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (cSCC) or locally advanced cSCC who are not candidates for curative surgery or curative radiation. Approved by FDA on 28 September 2018. Trap Fusion Proteins: Regeneron’s novel and patented Trap
Cancer risk seen with J&J foot gel: FDA. [SEP] Fluciclovine (18F) // Fluciclovine (18F) Fluciclovine (F), also known as anti-1-amino-3-18F-fluorocyclobutane-1-carboxylic acid (FACBC), or as Axumin (brand name), and colloquially as anti-3[18F] FACBC or F18, is a diagnostic agent "indicated for positron emission tomography (PET) imaging in men with suspected prostate cancer recurrence based on elevated prostate specific antigen (PSA) levels." Most imaging tests have not been able to localize recurrent prostate cancer when the PSA is mildly increased. Axumin scans were compared to [C]-tagged choline PET scans, another FDA approved PET scan that can assist in this situation, and to biopsy results. Fluciclovine tagged PET scans appear to more sensitive than CT
Cancer risk seen with J&J foot gel: FDA. [SEP] Cancer vaccine // of a phase III clinical trial. The approval is for a subset of kidney cancer patients who are at intermediate risk for disease recurrence. It awaits approval in the US and EU. but will need a new trial for FDA approval. Interim results from a phase III trial of talimogene laherparepvec in melanoma showed a significant tumour response compared to administration of GM-CSF alone. Oncophage was approved in Russia in 2008 for kidney cancer. It is marketed by Antigenics Inc. Sipuleucel-T, Provenge, was approved by the FDA in April 2010 for metastatic hormone-refractory prostate cancer. It is marketed by Dendreon
The New England Journal of Medicine released a survey the week that President Obama signed Obamacare stating that over 30 percent of American physicians would leave the profession if the government took over health care. [SEP] Public health insurance option // of Medicine done over the summer of 2009 found that 73% of doctors supported a public option. A survey reported by the "New England Journal of Medicine" in September, based on a random sample of 6,000 physicians from the American Medical Association, stated that "it seems clear that the majority of U.S. physicians support using both public and private insurance options to expand coverage." Conversely, an IBD/TIPP poll of 1,376 physicians showed that 45% of doctors "would consider leaving or taking early retirement" if Congress passes the health care plan wanted by the White House and Democrats. This poll also
The New England Journal of Medicine released a survey the week that President Obama signed Obamacare stating that over 30 percent of American physicians would leave the profession if the government took over health care. [SEP] Primary care // and decreased supply of primary care practitioners has led to a crisis in primary care delivery. The research identified a set of innovations that could enhance the quality, efficiency and effectiveness of primary care in the United States. On March 23, 2010 President Obama signed the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (ACA) into law. The law is estimated to have expanded health insurance coverage by 20 million people by early 2016 and is expected to expand health care to 34 million people by 2021. The success of the expansion of health insurance under the ACA in large measure depends
The New England Journal of Medicine released a survey the week that President Obama signed Obamacare stating that over 30 percent of American physicians would leave the profession if the government took over health care. [SEP] Economic policy of the Barack Obama administration // and tax cuts. By March 2010, the private sector began creating jobs consistently each month, a trend which continued through the end of his tenure, while public sector employment was slower to recover due to budget cuts. President Obama followed with the legislation that bears his name ("Obamacare"), the 2010 Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (ACA). By 2016, the law covered approximately 24 million people with health insurance via a combination of state healthcare exchanges and an extension of Medicaid. It lowered the rate of those without health insurance from approximately 16% in 2010 to 9% by 2015. Throughout
The New England Journal of Medicine released a survey the week that President Obama signed Obamacare stating that over 30 percent of American physicians would leave the profession if the government took over health care. [SEP] United States // on the economy. In 2010, the Obama administration passed the Affordable Care Act, which made the most sweeping reforms to the nation's healthcare system in nearly five decades, including mandates, subsidies and insurance exchanges. The law caused a significant reduction in the number and percentage of people without health insurance, with 24 million covered during 2016, but remains controversial due to its impact on healthcare costs, insurance premiums, and economic performance. Although the recession reached its trough in June 2009, voters remained frustrated with the slow pace of the economic recovery. The Republicans, who stood in opposition to Obama's policies,
The New England Journal of Medicine released a survey the week that President Obama signed Obamacare stating that over 30 percent of American physicians would leave the profession if the government took over health care. [SEP] Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act // At various times during and after the ACA debate, Obama stated that "if you like your health care plan, you'll be able to keep your health care plan". However, in fall 2013 millions of Americans with individual policies received notices that their insurance plans were terminated, and several million more risked seeing their current plans cancelled. However, Poltifact cited various estimates that only about 2% of the total insured population (4 million out of 262 million) received such notices. Obama's previous unambiguous assurance that consumers' could keep their own plans became a focal point for critics, who challenged his truthfulness.
The New England Journal of Medicine released a survey the week that President Obama signed Obamacare stating that over 30 percent of American physicians would leave the profession if the government took over health care. [SEP] Health care reforms proposed during the Obama administration // 2010. The American Academy of Family Physicians predicts a shortage of 40,000 primary care doctors (including family practice, internal medicine, pediatrics and obstetrics/gynecology) by 2020. The number of medical students choosing the primary care specialty has dropped by 52% since 1997. Currently, only 2% of medical school graduates choose primary care as a career. An amendment to the Senate health bill includes $2 billion in funds over 10 years to create 2,000 new residency training slots geared toward primary care medicine and general surgery. Writing in Forbes, a physician argued that this is a "tiny band-aid at best," advocating full
The New England Journal of Medicine released a survey the week that President Obama signed Obamacare stating that over 30 percent of American physicians would leave the profession if the government took over health care. [SEP] Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act // passed it by reconciliation on March 25, and Obama signed it on March 30. The law has caused a significant reduction in the number and percentage of people without health insurance. The CDC reported that the percentage of people without health insurance fell from 16.0% in 2010 to 8.9% from January to June 2016. The uninsured rate dropped in every congressional district in the U.S. from 2013 to 2015. The Congressional Budget Office reported in March 2016 that there were approximately 12 million people covered by the exchanges (10 million of whom received subsidies to help pay for insurance) and
The New England Journal of Medicine released a survey the week that President Obama signed Obamacare stating that over 30 percent of American physicians would leave the profession if the government took over health care. [SEP] Economic policy of the Barack Obama administration // the President" also stated that ACA has improved healthcare quality, saying According to Gallup, the overall popularity of the law fell and then improved during Obama's tenure, but more disapproved of it (52%) than approved of it (44%) as of November 2016. Popularity was divided along party lines, with Democrats having a much more favorable view of the law. Individual elements were considerably more popular than the law overall, although the mandate requiring people to have insurance remained highly unpopular. During his first two years, President Obama had a majority in the House and filibuster-proof super-majority in the Senate (until
The New England Journal of Medicine released a survey the week that President Obama signed Obamacare stating that over 30 percent of American physicians would leave the profession if the government took over health care. [SEP] Presidency of Barack Obama // the constitutionality of the Affordable Care Act, though it made state Medicaid expansion voluntary. In King v. Burwell, a 6-3 majority allowed the use of tax credits in state-operated exchanges. The October 2013 launch of HealthCare.gov, a health insurance exchange website created under the provisions of the ACA, was widely criticized, though many of the problems were fixed by the end of the year. The number of uninsured Americans dropped from 20.2% of the population in 2010 to 13.3% of the population in 2015, though Republicans continued to oppose Obamacare as an unwelcome expansion of government. Many liberals continued to
The New England Journal of Medicine released a survey the week that President Obama signed Obamacare stating that over 30 percent of American physicians would leave the profession if the government took over health care. [SEP] United States Health Care Reform: Progress to Date and Next Steps // Skinner and Chandra criticized Obama's claim that the ACA was limiting the growth of health care spending, and Butler's editorial argued that the savings produced by the ACA may not have benefited consumers. In the article, Obama reviews the effects of his signature health care reform law, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, widely known as "Obamacare". He concludes that since the law took effect, 20 million more Americans have gained health insurance under it, and the uninsurance rate has dropped to 9.1% (as of 2015). He also acknowledges that more work remains to be done to improve America's
Nestle recalls batch of Alfamino infant formula in Germany. [SEP] Infant formula // over-dilute in an effort to "stretch" supplies resulting in malnourishment for the infant. Organized protests, the most famous of which was the Nestlé boycott of 1977, called for an end to unethical marketing. This boycott is ongoing, as the current coordinators maintain that Nestlé engages in marketing practices which violate the International Code of Marketing of Breast-milk Substitutes. In addition to commercially marketed brands, generic brands (or store brands) of infant formula were introduced in the United States in 1997, first by PBM Products. These private label formulas are sold by many leading food and drug retailers such as Wal-Mart,
Nestle recalls batch of Alfamino infant formula in Germany. [SEP] Leiner Health Products // in the U.S.A." statements and American flags, where the acetaminophen used in the manufacture was derived from foreign sources. On several occasions, Leiner has been forced to recall vitamins or supplements containing iron, which were not packaged in child-proof containers as required by the Poison Prevention Packaging Act. On March 12, 2002, they recalled 14,000 bottles of "Nature's Valley Women's Formula Multivitamin", and on January 28, 2005, they recalled 13,000 bottles of "Long’s Central-Vite Multivitamins". Nikky Joe Green, a member of the Oklahoma Highway Patrol, was murdered during a traffic stop in December 2003. The killer, Ricky Ray Malone, was
Nestle recalls batch of Alfamino infant formula in Germany. [SEP] Nestlé boycott // an anti-boycott advertisement that it markets infant formula "ethically and responsibly". The ASA found that Nestlé could not support this nor other claims in the face of evidence provided by the campaigning group Baby Milk Action. In November 2000 the European Parliament invited IBFAN, UNICEF, and Nestlé to present evidence to a Public Hearing before the Development and Cooperation Committee. Evidence was presented by the IBFAN group from Pakistan and UNICEF's legal officer commented on Nestlé's failure to bring its policies into line with the World Health Assembly Resolutions. Nestlé declined an invitation to attend, claiming scheduling conflicts, although it
Nestle recalls batch of Alfamino infant formula in Germany. [SEP] Cerelac // digestive tracts of breastfed babies. The brand was first registered in 1949 and it is currently sold in Belgium, Denmark, Germany, Spain, Portugal, South America, Central America, North America, India, the Middle East, Nigeria, North Africa, Malawi, Pakistan, Philippines, Ghana, Ivory Coast, South Africa, South East Asia, Zambia and Zimbabwe. Developed by Henri Nestlé to reduce infant mortality in the 1860s, he invented Infant Cereals using existing nutritional science and technology. The first product was called Farine Lactée and is believed to have saved the life of premature baby boy named Wanner. By 1874, these infant cereals were sold in
Nestle recalls batch of Alfamino infant formula in Germany. [SEP] Nestlé boycott // broken the Code... If we find that the Code has been deliberately violated, we take disciplinary action." The company maintains that many of the allegations are unsubstantiated, out of date, or use IBFAN's own non-standard interpretation of the Code. In May 2011, the debate over Nestlé's unethical marketing of infant formula was relaunched in the Asia-Pacific region. Nineteen leading Laos-based international NGOs, including Save the Children, Oxfam, CARE International, Plan International and World Vision have launched a boycott of Nestlé and written an open letter to the company. Among other unethical practices, the NGOs criticised the lack of labelling in
Nestle recalls batch of Alfamino infant formula in Germany. [SEP] 2008 Chinese milk scandal // its "Lipton" milk tea powder after the company's internal checks found traces of melamine in the Chinese powdered milk used as an ingredient. Heinz recalled cases of baby cereal in Hong Kong after discovering they contained melamine. Nestlé's factory in Heilongjiang was also implicated: the Taiwanese Department of Health forced the delisting of six "Neslac" and "KLIM" products on 2 October for containing minute traces of melamine, although the minister said they did not pose a significant health risk. Since the milk crisis broke, Nestlé says it has sent 20 specialists from Switzerland to five of its Chinese plants to
Nestle recalls batch of Alfamino infant formula in Germany. [SEP] Nestlé // independent and transparent verifications conducted by PricewaterhouseCoopers every 18 months. Every year since 2009, Bureau Veritas conducts independent assurance of compliance with the Nestlé Policy and Instructions for Implementation of the WHO International Code of Marketing of Breast-milk Substitutes. Their Assurance Statements are available in the public domain. In May 2011, the debate over Nestlé's unethical marketing of infant formula was relaunched in the Asia-Pacific region. Nineteen leading Laos-based international NGOs, including Save the Children, Oxfam, CARE International, Plan International, and World Vision have launched a boycott of Nestlé and written an open letter to the company. An independent audit
Nestle recalls batch of Alfamino infant formula in Germany. [SEP] Yashili // samples were found to have melamine. Yashili's infant formula products were the only Chinese infant formula being exported and no melamine was found in those products. Yashili captured contaminated or suspect product from distributors and filmed it being burned. It also used company funds to buy back the product from distributors. Yashili International said the melamine incident had caused it a total loss of 787 million yuan in 2008, which were mainly attributable to the costs and expenses relating to product recalls and decreased sales in the second half of 2008. Yashili said in a separate statement that it appointed
Nestle recalls batch of Alfamino infant formula in Germany. [SEP] BabyNes // In June 2011, Nestlé announced plans to begin marketing the product outside Switzerland by 2012. Nestlé also announced considerations to allow for machine rentals. BabyNes has drawn criticism from the International Baby Food Action Network, who accused Nestlé of violating the International Code of Marketing of Breast-milk Substitutes, and described the machine as a product for the rich. BabyNes's director responded that they follow the World Health Organization's policy and do not market the product to mothers with children younger than six months. They also announced a 24-hour customer service hotline and a customer website. Baby Milk Action, an organization
Nestle recalls batch of Alfamino infant formula in Germany. [SEP] Nestlé // organisations including the General Synod of the Church of England in July 1994, the Royal College of Midwives in July 1997, and the Methodist Ethical Investment Committee in November 2005 and the Reformed Churches in November 2011 as a result of the company's inclusion in the responsible investment index FTSE4Good Responsible Investment Index. The boycott was relaunched in 1989. Since 2011, Nestlé is the only infant formula manufacturer to have met the 104 criteria on the marketing of breast milk substitutes (FTSE4Good BMS Criteria) of the FTSE4Good Responsible Investment Index. Nestlé's inclusion in the index is based on results of
US OKs Medicaid funds for large mental health facilities. [SEP] Oklahoma Department of Mental Health and Substance Abuse Services // $120.56, Oklahoma only spends $53.05. Despite the lack of funding, Oklahoma’s mental health system scores among the top states in its delivery of treatment. For example, the National Alliance for Mental Illness (NAMI) has scored Oklahoma’s mental health system as one of the top 6 states, giving it a “B” in NAMI’s grading of the states[5] Noting that lack of funding prevented Oklahoma from receiving an “A,” the NAMI reported that if the Department can successfully implement its state plan through added funding, “it could become a national leader in comprehensive, recovery-oriented mental health care.”[6] Some major reasons for Oklahoma’s
US OKs Medicaid funds for large mental health facilities. [SEP] Oklahoma Department of Mental Health and Substance Abuse Services // innovating the way in which treatment is delivered across the state The Department, with an annual budget of over $450 million, is one of the largest employers of the State. For fiscal year 2012, the Department was authorized 1,931 full-time employees. It oversees a blended system of state-operated facilities and private contracted providers. Oklahoma consistently ranks as one of the top states for the number of individuals with mental illness and addiction,[3] but as one of the bottom states as far as behavioral health funding.[4] For example, while the national average of spending per individual for mental health treatment is
US OKs Medicaid funds for large mental health facilities. [SEP] Oklahoma Department of Mental Health and Substance Abuse Services // their appointment. The Board is required to be composed of individuals meeting the following requirements: State operated facilities include: The Department is the sixth largest State agency by annual appropriations from the Oklahoma Legislature. For fiscal year 2012, the Department received $183 million in appropriations from the Legislature, equivalent to 61% of the total budget. $59 million came from fees charged by the Department for its services, or 20% of its budget. The remaining $56 million (19%) comes in the form of grants from the federal Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration. All fiscal decisions are made and revolve
US OKs Medicaid funds for large mental health facilities. [SEP] Alaska Mental Health Enabling Act // to fund the construction of mental health facilities in the territory. To meet the ongoing costs of the program, the bill transferred one million acres (4,000 km²) of federally owned land in Alaska to the ownership of the proposed new Alaska Mental Health Trust as a grant-in-aid—the federal government owned about 99% of the land of Alaska at the time. The trust would then be able to use the assets of the transferred land (principally mineral and forestry rights) to obtain an ongoing revenue stream to fund the Alaskan mental health program. Similar provisions had applied in other US territories
US OKs Medicaid funds for large mental health facilities. [SEP] Oklahoma Department of Mental Health and Substance Abuse Services // renamed Western State Psychiatric Hospital, and now called the Northwest Center for Behavioral Health. A year later, a second state-operated facility was opened in Vinita, Oklahoma, called the Eastern Oklahoma Hospital for the Insane, later renamed to the Oklahoma Forensic Center. On October 31, 1963, President John F. Kennedy signed into law the Community Mental Health Act of 1963, which sparked a major transformation of the public mental health system by shifting resources away from large institutions towards community-based mental health treatment programs. Soon after the passage of this law, the Department created the Central Oklahoma Community Mental Health Center
US OKs Medicaid funds for large mental health facilities. [SEP] Oklahoma Department of Human Services // Fund used to fund the assistance programs. The agency receives both federal and state funding and has additional sources of revenue. The agency received a state appropriation of $587 million and had a total budget of $2.3 billion for fiscal year 2013. The Department of Human Services is the largest employer in Oklahoma state government. As of February 2012, the staffing is as follows: Oklahoma Department of Human Services The Oklahoma Department of Human Services (OKDHS) is an agency of the government of Oklahoma. Under the supervision of the Oklahoma Secretary of Health and Human Services, OKDHS is responsible for
US OKs Medicaid funds for large mental health facilities. [SEP] Oklahoma Department of Mental Health and Substance Abuse Services // (COCMHC), which was the first facility of its kind in the United States The Department provides services through a statewide network of programs. The core of the system is a network of 14 community mental health centers, ten nonprofit agencies with which the ODMHSAS contracts, and four state-operated centers. The state is geographically divided into 17 service areas each served by a community mental health center (some centers serve multiple areas). Each center is responsible for providing a comprehensive array of services within its service area. However, individuals seeking services may choose to seek services anywhere in the state. This
US OKs Medicaid funds for large mental health facilities. [SEP] Oklahoma Department of Mental Health and Substance Abuse Services // service structure is vastly different from the organization’s original model for treatment in the mid-1960s, which was primarily in the form of institutionalization in large state hospitals. On average, nearly 6,400 Oklahomans were in the state's mental hospitals on any given day. In FY13, services were provided to approximately 187,000 individuals through the ODMHSAS system, but fewer than 5 percent of required hospital care. Most treatment takes part in mental health and substance abuse outpatient programs, targeted community-based services, prevention efforts and educational initiatives. For individuals with mental illness, the Department supports a continuum of programs from community-based treatment and
US OKs Medicaid funds for large mental health facilities. [SEP] Oklahoma Department of Mental Health and Substance Abuse Services // case management to acute inpatient care. The ODMHSAS operates two state hospitals for adults and one children’s psychiatric hospital: the Oklahoma Forensic Center, Griffin Memorial Hospital, and the Children’s Recovery Center. Residential care services for adults with mental illness are provided by 25 separate residential home operators with which the ODMHSAS contracts. The Department operates substance abuse treatment and support programs within state operated facilitates, including CMHCs, and contracts for services with approximately 120 substance abuse treatment providers and 38 separate prevention programs. The Department actively supports prevention programs to reduce the occurrence of substance abuse, prevent suicide, and promote
US OKs Medicaid funds for large mental health facilities. [SEP] Oklahoma Department of Mental Health and Substance Abuse Services // the Insane, Deaf, Dumb, and Blind, it was built outside the city of Tahlequah in 1873. Non-Indians with mental illness were sent out of state for treatment to the Oak Lawn Retreat in Jacksonville, Illinois, until a private company, the Oklahoma Sanitarium Company, located in Norman, Oklahoma, began treating the mentally ill on June 15, 1895. The Department continues to operate a facility at this location today, now called Griffin Memorial Hospital . Oklahoma’s first state-operated facility for the treatment of mental illness opened in 1908, in Fort Supply, Oklahoma, and was called the Oklahoma Hospital for the Insane, later
“The NFL agreed to give the domestic terror group, BLM, 250 million dollars.” [SEP] Proposed Los Angeles NFL stadiums // making no progress and now featured a three-way battle between Ovitz, Roski, and newcomer Marvin Davis. Although the league would still entertain an offer from any of the competing Los Angeles groups, the league would now consider an offer from McNair and Houston as well. In the first week of October, Ovitz announced that his group was prepared to offer $540 million for the 32nd NFL franchise to be awarded to Los Angeles. However, later that week, McNair's Houston NFL Holdings proposed a bid of $700 million to the owners for the NFL to award the 32nd franchise to Houston
“The NFL agreed to give the domestic terror group, BLM, 250 million dollars.” [SEP] Los Angeles Express (USFL) // Leigh Steinberg negotiated for Young what was then reported to be the largest professional sports contract ever signed – a 10-year deal worth over US$40 million. The payments were to be in the form of an annuity set up to pay him $1 million annually for the next 42 years, so the value of the contract was considerably less than stated. The team struggled to compete with the popularity of the Raiders, who had just won the Super Bowl, and the Rams. Despite the all-star lineup, the Express only drew 15,000 people per game–4,000 fewer than they drew a year
“The NFL agreed to give the domestic terror group, BLM, 250 million dollars.” [SEP] History of the Houston Texans // meeting of the NFL owners in Atlanta. The NFL noted that the Los Angeles effort was still making no progress and now featured a three-way battle between Ovitz, Roski, and newcomer Marvin Davis. Although the league would still entertain an offer from any of the competing Los Angeles groups, the league would now consider an offer from McNair and Houston as well. In the first week of October, Ovitz announced that his group was prepared to offer $540 million for the 32nd NFL franchise to be awarded to Los Angeles. However, later that week, McNair's Houston NFL Holdings proposed a
“The NFL agreed to give the domestic terror group, BLM, 250 million dollars.” [SEP] National Football League Players Association // 1968, the brief work stoppage came to an end. Although a CBA resulted, many players felt that the agreement did not net them as many benefits as they had hoped. The owners agreed to contribute about $1.5 million to the pension fund with minimum salaries of $9,000 for rookies, $10,000 for veterans and $50 per exhibition game; there was at yet no neutral arbitration for disputes. As the merger of the AFL and NFL became effective in 1970, the unions agreed to meet for the first time in January of that year. The NFL players wanted Ed Meador—who was the
“The NFL agreed to give the domestic terror group, BLM, 250 million dollars.” [SEP] United States Football League // the mergers and shutdowns, there just were not enough spring football advocates left in the league to accept those contracts. The owners in the league walked away from what averaged out to $67 million per year starting in 1986 to pursue victory over the NFL. After the 1985 season, more plans were announced to accommodate the fall schedule, pool financial resources and avoid costly head-to-head competition with NFL teams. Two mergers were announced. The Denver Gold merged with the Jacksonville Bulls, with the Bulls as the surviving team. Trump bought the assets of the Houston Gamblers for an undisclosed amount
“The NFL agreed to give the domestic terror group, BLM, 250 million dollars.” [SEP] Bert Wolstein // 1997, and went public with their bid on January 16, 1998. Football experts believed that the franchise rights would sell for $300 million ($ in dollars) or more. Under NFL rules, Wolstein (the lead partner in the group) was required to personally provide at least 30 percent of the purchase price, and his investors group could contain only 10 or fewer members. According to press reports, Wolstein proposed to pay just 30 percent of the auction price in cash. The NFL would own the remaining 70 percent of the team. In a boost to his efforts, Wolstein recruited retired Browns
“The NFL agreed to give the domestic terror group, BLM, 250 million dollars.” [SEP] Logan Mankins // to complete a new NFL/NFLPA Collective Bargaining Agreement came reports that Mankins and several other players were demanding $10 million apiece or immediate granting of free agency status before they would sign off on settlement of a lawsuit against the NFL as part of a new CBA. It was not the first time, as in the previous CBA agreement Reggie White was exempt and was able to join free agency as part of the agreement. On July 26, 2011, it was announced that Mankins would sign his franchise tender, worth just over $10 million, for the 2011-2012 season, and report
“The NFL agreed to give the domestic terror group, BLM, 250 million dollars.” [SEP] Miles Austin // He signed a $3.168 million contract in June 2010 and his extension was worth $54 million, which brought the total value of his contract to $57 million. The team paid a very high first year salary ($17 million), by taking advantage that the NFL collective bargaining agreement wasn't renewed, and in the final year of the agreement there was no salary cap system in place. Even though the NFL initially approved the contract, in 2013 commissioner Roger Goodell would penalize the Cowboys by taking $10 million from the team's original $120.6 million salary cap space. With 10 catches in each
“The NFL agreed to give the domestic terror group, BLM, 250 million dollars.” [SEP] Portland Steel // in Las Vegas being owed $13,000 for manufacturing home black jerseys for the Las Vegas Outlaws in 2016. That company had still not been paid and there has been no indication of payment. Additionally, the same former employees and vendors received a letter from a law office in Vermont representing Arena Football One, LLC. The letter said the league was restructuring finances, but offered 10 to 15 percent of the money owed, if the former employees agreed not to sue. The parties refused the offer and still planned on suing the AFL ownership group following the report. The following Thunder/Steel
“The NFL agreed to give the domestic terror group, BLM, 250 million dollars.” [SEP] Hugh Culverhouse // and Paul Gruber were so high as to upset other team owners, while he made Ray Perkins one of the five highest-paid NFL head coaches. He also offered Bill Parcells $6.5 million to coach the team, offered draft pick Bo Jackson a five-year, $7 million contract that was at the time the highest in NFL history for a rookie, paid Keith McCants an NFL-record $2.5 million signing bonus, and paid Steve Young $6 million in salary, plus another $1 million for the buyout of his USFL contract. Culverhouse was diagnosed with lung cancer in 1992. After a successful operation to
China heads into Lunar New Year on shutdown as virus spreads to Europe. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic in Asia // the China Inspection and Quarantine Science Research Institute, the measures already in place in China against bird flu are sufficient for this new disease, also certain lessons were learned from the 2003 SARS outbreak including that the state-controlled media doesn't cover up such events. 2 May, the Chinese government has decided to suspend flights from Mexico to Shanghai, the Foreign Ministry said. Meanwhile, the Civil Aviation Administration of China also assigned a charter to transport stranded Chinese visitors back home. Among all carriers, China Eastern Airlines was the first choice as it is based in Shanghai, where the original and
China heads into Lunar New Year on shutdown as virus spreads to Europe. [SEP] Timeline of the SARS outbreak // Yi was named Zhang Wenkang's replacement as PRC health minister. On April 26–27, Chinese authorities closed down theaters, discos, and other entertainment venues in Beijing as the death toll in Beijing continued to rise, threatening to become the worst hit area of the country, eclipsing the Guangdong province. Authorities are bolstered by the fact that the infection rate seems to have declined, with the Guangdong region only exporting three new infections over the weekend. The economic impact is becoming dramatic as shops, restaurants, markets, bars, universities, schools, and many other businesses have closed, as well as some government ministries and
China heads into Lunar New Year on shutdown as virus spreads to Europe. [SEP] History of the People's Republic of China (2002–present) // around the world. The crisis marked a period of national mobilization, where schedules around the country shifted to accommodate for the control of the virus. Many educational institutions closed or had highly regulated schedules during the period between April and November 2003, and businesses were open on a very irregular basis. Restaurants, usually the centre of social life in China, were nearing bankruptcy. Quarantine measures were taken across the country, with designated hospitals in major cities treating the illness. The extreme measures left paranoid citizens with common illnesses to treat themselves at home to avoid contracting the virus at a
China heads into Lunar New Year on shutdown as virus spreads to Europe. [SEP] Influenza A virus subtype H7N9 // that the Chinese government would extend the ban for four months. The health minister also said that they plan to prevent diseased birds from entering the market by setting up a facility where imported poultry can be quarantined to ensure they are disease-free. The WHO does not advise against travel to China at this point in time, as there is no evidence of human-to-human transmission of the virus. On April 9, 2013, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) activated its Emergency Operations Center (EOC) in Atlanta at Level II, the second-highest level of alert. Activation was prompted because
China heads into Lunar New Year on shutdown as virus spreads to Europe. [SEP] Influenza A virus subtype H5N8 // official delegations from Japan, South Korea and China gathered in Beijing for a symposium on preventing and controlling bird flu and other diseases in East Asia, according to the website of China's ministry of agriculture. By the end of December the outbreak had spread to South Korea, Japan, Germany, and the United Kingdom. Thousands of birds and animals were being culled in Germany to stop the spread. In the United Kingdom the flu was found in a wild duck at a turkey farm in Lincolnshire. In South Korea, a total of record 18.4 million birds had been killed by December
China heads into Lunar New Year on shutdown as virus spreads to Europe. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic in Hong Kong // antiviral drug Tamiflu and the Centre for Health Protection confirmed that he was no longer carrying the virus. Following the finding that 12 students at St. Paul's Convent School contracted the swine flu virus, Chief Executive Donald Tsang ordered the closure of all primary schools, kindergartens, and special schools for two weeks starting from 12 June. The 12 cases of infection were confirmed to be the first known cluster of local transmission of the virus. According to the Education Bureau, the school closure affected about 500,000 students from 964 kindergartens, 601 primary schools and 61 special schools. 2009 flu pandemic
China heads into Lunar New Year on shutdown as virus spreads to Europe. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic in Europe // May. The infected was a 39-year-old woman from Moldova, living in Cyprus, who had returned from the United States on 28 May. By 11 July 250 cases had been confirmed in Cyprus. In the northern part of Cyprus, all the schools, universities and government offices were shut down for ten days. People were told not to leave their houses unless there was an emergency or it was urgent to do so. The Czech Republic confirmed its first case of swine flu on 25 May. The 29-year-old man was working as a pilot, and he had just returned from New York.
China heads into Lunar New Year on shutdown as virus spreads to Europe. [SEP] China–Mexico relations // collect some 100 of her citizens (mainly tourists, students and businesspersons) from Mexico, where 22 swine flu-related deaths had already occurred, and where the citizens had been hiding in northern hotels for some days waiting for the chance to leave. The Chinese were by no means alone in such measures, however. Reuters described the exodus thus: "Even as Mexico said the flu crisis seemed to be dissipating and prepared to reopen closed businesses, Chinese nationals wearing face masks and loaded with luggage streamed aboard a Chinese-chartered jet that stopped in Mexico City and the northern city of Tijuana." Despite this,
China heads into Lunar New Year on shutdown as virus spreads to Europe. [SEP] Timeline of the SARS outbreak // conference chaired by Gao Qiang several hours earlier, the PRC admitted that in Beijing there are more than 300 cases, as opposed to the previous figure of only 37. One day later the figure has increased to 407. Chinese officials also admitted to major underreporting of cases, which were attributed to bureaucratic ineptitude. On April 22, schools, in Hong Kong, start to reopen in stages. On April 23, Beijing announced that all primary and secondary schools will be closed for two weeks. A few days before, some colleges in Peking University had been closed because some students had been infected.
China heads into Lunar New Year on shutdown as virus spreads to Europe. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic by country // within two weeks were to be quarantined. On 2 May, the Chinese government suspended flights from Tijuana to Shanghai. Meanwhile, the Civil Aviation Administration of China assigned a charter to transport stranded Chinese visitors home. The first suspected case was reported on 10 May 2009. On 29 April the Food and Health Bureau of Hong Kong advised Hong Kong residents not to travel to Mexico unless absolutely necessary. The first case was a Mexican who arrived from Shanghai. The Bureau escalated the alert level from "alert" to "serious", which activated health protection measures in all ports of entry of Hong
The story of a jazz             musician named Tommy who went through a personal tragedy that led to             his writing the song “Precious Lord Take My Hand.”             He was Tommy Dorsey, the great trombonist and band leader. [SEP] Thomas A. Dorsey // faith and God, rather than the individual subsumed into the group by belief. Dorsey was born in Villa Rica, Georgia. He was the music director at Pilgrim Baptist Church in Chicago, Illinois, from 1932 until the late 1970s. His best-known composition, "Take My Hand, Precious Lord", was performed by Mahalia Jackson and was a favorite of the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. Another composition, "Peace in the Valley", was a hit for Red Foley in 1951 and has been performed by dozens of other artists, including Albertina Walker (the "Queen of Gospel"), Elvis Presley and Johnny Cash. Dorsey died in
The story of a jazz             musician named Tommy who went through a personal tragedy that led to             his writing the song “Precious Lord Take My Hand.”             He was Tommy Dorsey, the great trombonist and band leader. [SEP] Thomas A. Dorsey // 1932. Two days later the child, a son, also died. In his grief, Dorsey wrote his most famous song, one of the most famous of all gospel songs, "Precious Lord, Take My Hand." Unhappy with the treatment received at the hands of established publishers, Dorsey founded the first black gospel music publishing company, Dorsey House of Music. He also founded a gospel choir and was a founder and the first president of the National Convention of Gospel Choirs and Choruses. He influenced not only African-American music but also music by white artists. "Precious Lord" was recorded by Albertina Walker, Elvis
The story of a jazz             musician named Tommy who went through a personal tragedy that led to             his writing the song “Precious Lord Take My Hand.”             He was Tommy Dorsey, the great trombonist and band leader. [SEP] Villa Rica historical markers // is known as "the father of gospel music". Earlier in his life he was a leading blues pianist known as Georgia Tom. As formulated by Dorsey, gospel music combines Christian praise with the rhythms of jazz and the blues. Dorsey was the music director at Pilgrim Baptist Church in Chicago from 1932 until the late 1970s. His best-known composition, "Take My Hand, Precious Lord", was performed by Mahalia Jackson and was a favorite of the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr, and "Peace in the Valley", which was a hit for Red Foley in 1951 and has been performed by dozens
The story of a jazz             musician named Tommy who went through a personal tragedy that led to             his writing the song “Precious Lord Take My Hand.”             He was Tommy Dorsey, the great trombonist and band leader. [SEP] Music of Chicago // music genre. Its origin and rise in popularity is mainly due to the "godfather of Gospel music", Thomas A. Dorsey. Dorsey began his career as a blues pianist, but later began composing religious music to the rhythms of jazz and blues, later calling it "Gospel". His most popular song, "Precious Lord, Take My Hand", was a favorite of Martin Luther King, Jr., and was sung by Mahalia Jackson by his request at his funeral. Many other artists have recorded their own renditions of "Precious Lord", including another Chicago Gospel artist, Albertina Walker. Dorsey influenced other Chicago Gospel artists such as
The story of a jazz             musician named Tommy who went through a personal tragedy that led to             his writing the song “Precious Lord Take My Hand.”             He was Tommy Dorsey, the great trombonist and band leader. [SEP] Villa Rica historical markers // gospel-blues song after his wife and newborn son died unexpectedly on August 26 and 27, 1932. That song, Take My Hand, Precious Lord has been translated into 32 languages. Aretha Franklin recorded Take My Hand, Precious Lord in 1956, the same year Tennessee Governor Frank Clement recited it. It became the anthem of Fannie Lou Hamer's Mississippi Summer. Dorsey's friend, Mahalia Jackson, sang it at Martin Luther King, Jr's funeral. Elvis Presley's recording of Dorsey's second-most-popular gospel song, Peace in the Valley, sold millions of copies. For a while, any new gospel-blues song, regardless of who wrote it, was called
The story of a jazz             musician named Tommy who went through a personal tragedy that led to             his writing the song “Precious Lord Take My Hand.”             He was Tommy Dorsey, the great trombonist and band leader. [SEP] Take My Hand, Precious Lord // Take My Hand, Precious Lord "Take My Hand, Precious Lord" (a.k.a. "Precious Lord, Take My Hand") is a gospel song. The lyrics were written by the Rev. Thomas A. Dorsey, who also adapted the melody. The melody is credited to Dorsey, drawn extensively from the 1844 hymn tune, "Maitland". "Maitland" is often attributed to American composer George N. Allen (1812–1877), but the earliest known source (Plymouth Collection, 1855) shows that Allen was the author/adapter of the text "Must Jesus bear the cross alone," not the composer of the tune, and the tune itself was printed without attribution for many years.
The story of a jazz             musician named Tommy who went through a personal tragedy that led to             his writing the song “Precious Lord Take My Hand.”             He was Tommy Dorsey, the great trombonist and band leader. [SEP] Take My Hand, Precious Lord // "Maitland" is also sometimes attributed to "The Oberlin Social and Sabbath School Hymn Book", which Allen edited, but this collection does not contain music. This tune originally appeared in hymnals and tune books as "Cross and Crown"; the name "Maitland" appears as early as 1868. Dorsey said that he had heard Blind Connie Williams sing his version of this song with "Precious Lord" and used it as inspiration. Dorsey wrote "Precious Lord" in response to his inconsolable bereavement at the death of his wife, Nettie Harper, in childbirth, and his infant son in August 1932. (Mr. Dorsey can be seen
The story of a jazz             musician named Tommy who went through a personal tragedy that led to             his writing the song “Precious Lord Take My Hand.”             He was Tommy Dorsey, the great trombonist and band leader. [SEP] Tina Louise Thomas // her local and state contests. Thomas's winning performance featured her rendition of "Take My Hand, Precious Lord", written in 1932 by Rev. Thomas A. Dorsey and arranged by Paul Mann, to a standing ovation. Rev. Dorsey, the "father of black gospel music," went on to write an article in "Christian Life" magazine "Jesus Took My Hand" (describing the experiences he went through prior to writing the song) where he mentioned her. He wrote, "And, it was the song that helped Tina Thomas, Miss Pennsylvania, win the Miss America talent competition." Early in her pageant days Thomas was sought after to
The story of a jazz             musician named Tommy who went through a personal tragedy that led to             his writing the song “Precious Lord Take My Hand.”             He was Tommy Dorsey, the great trombonist and band leader. [SEP] Gospel music // the song "Precious Lord, Take My Hand"), who had spent the 1920s writing and performing secular blues music under the name "Georgia Tom", turned to gospel music, establishing a publishing house. He had experienced many trials in his life,including the death of his pregnant wife. Thomas gained biblical knowledge from his father, who was a Baptist minister, and was taught to play piano by his mother. He started working with blues musicians when the family moved to Atlanta. It has been said that 1930 was the year when modern gospel music began, because the National Baptist Convention first publicly endorsed
The story of a jazz             musician named Tommy who went through a personal tragedy that led to             his writing the song “Precious Lord Take My Hand.”             He was Tommy Dorsey, the great trombonist and band leader. [SEP] Tommy Dorsey // Tommy Dorsey Thomas Francis Dorsey Jr. (November 19, 1905 – November 26, 1956) was an American jazz trombonist, composer, conductor and bandleader of the big band era. He was known as the "Sentimental Gentleman of Swing" because of his smooth-toned trombone playing. His technical skill on the trombone gave him renown among other musicians. He was the younger brother of bandleader Jimmy Dorsey. After Dorsey broke with his brother in the mid-1930s, he led an extremely popular and highly successful band from the late 1930s into the 1950s. He is best remembered for standards such as "Opus One", "Song of
A letter by Dr. Keith Albow said President Trump is “stone cold sane” and that “there’s a genius in the Oval Office” in response to critics who have questioned the president’s mental fitness. [SEP] John Gartner (psychologist) // leader, Democratic Senator Chuck Schumer. At the end of April 2017 he was able to forward the petition with more than 41.000 signatures of mental healthcare professionals to Washington D.C.. Core of the petition: "My professional judgement is that Donald Trump manifests a serious mental illness that renders him psychologically incapable of competently discharging the duties of President of the United States." "And I respectfully request him be removed from office, according to article 3 of the 25th Amendment, and so on". According to Gartner, President Trump's mental handicaps are a mix of 1.narcissism, 2. paranoia; 3.sociopathy; and 4. a
A letter by Dr. Keith Albow said President Trump is “stone cold sane” and that “there’s a genius in the Oval Office” in response to critics who have questioned the president’s mental fitness. [SEP] Health of Donald Trump // claims about their respective "nuclear buttons". In reaction, Richard W. Painter, a former adviser to President George W. Bush, deemed Trump "psychologically unfit" and supported transferring his powers to Vice President Pence under the 25th Amendment. In April 2018 "Vanity Fair" reported that Trump's advisers "worry about his mental health" when he is outside the controls available in the White House environment. In September 2017, Jeanne Suk Gerson wrote in "The New Yorker": "A strange consensus does appear to be forming around Trump's mental state," including Democrats and Republicans who doubt Trump's fitness for office. Journalist Bill Moyers interviewed psychiatrist
A letter by Dr. Keith Albow said President Trump is “stone cold sane” and that “there’s a genius in the Oval Office” in response to critics who have questioned the president’s mental fitness. [SEP] Health of Donald Trump // in 2018 that Trump had dictated this letter over the telephone. He said: "Mr. Trump dictated the letter and I would tell him what he couldn't put in there." In August 2016, Bornstein stated that Trump's "health is excellent, especially his mental health." In February 2016, presidential candidate Jeb Bush speculated that Trump had mental health issues, stating "I'm not a psychiatrist or a psychologist, but the guy needs therapy". In early 2017, psychologist John Gartner collected more than 25,000 signatures of mental health professionals on a petition, directed to the national opposition leader, Democratic Senator Chuck Schumer. At the
A letter by Dr. Keith Albow said President Trump is “stone cold sane” and that “there’s a genius in the Oval Office” in response to critics who have questioned the president’s mental fitness. [SEP] Health of Donald Trump // own political perspective, as other mental health professionals differ. Lee and others contend that Trump's presidency represents an emergency allowing, or even requiring, psychiatrists to take exception from the APA's Goldwater rule, which holds that it is unethical for psychiatrists to give a professional opinion about public figures without having examined them in person, and without their consent. The letter titled I Am Part of the Resistance Inside the Trump Administration published by the New York Times declares most if not all those working for Trump see him as mentally unfit for his job. It has been asserted that Trump
A letter by Dr. Keith Albow said President Trump is “stone cold sane” and that “there’s a genius in the Oval Office” in response to critics who have questioned the president’s mental fitness. [SEP] The Dangerous Case of Donald Trump // Trump as "crazy" or doubted his mental health. In this book, mental health professionals examine that claim. They define Trump's behavior in terms of psychiatric disease, such as narcissistic personality disorder. They conclude that “anyone as mentally unstable as Mr. Trump simply should not be entrusted with the life-and-death powers of the presidency.” Lozada wrote that these conclusions are "compelling," but the contributors are writing from their own political perspective, and other mental health professionals differ. Presidents with mental illness, like depression, can be effective, and presidents without mental illness can still be dangerous. Estelle Freedman, the Robinson Professor in
A letter by Dr. Keith Albow said President Trump is “stone cold sane” and that “there’s a genius in the Oval Office” in response to critics who have questioned the president’s mental fitness. [SEP] Health of Donald Trump // Robert Jay Lifton and said that Trump "makes increasingly bizarre statements that are contradicted by irrefutable evidence to the contrary". Lifton replied, "He doesn’t have clear contact with reality, though I’m not sure it qualifies as a "bona fide" delusion." As an example, Lifton said, when Trump claimed that former president Barack Obama was born in Kenya, "he was manipulating that lie as well as undoubtedly believing it in part." In April 2017 forensic psychiatrist Bandy X. Lee hosted a meeting at Yale University medical school regarding the ethics of discussing Trump's mental health. In October 2017, Lee published "The
A letter by Dr. Keith Albow said President Trump is “stone cold sane” and that “there’s a genius in the Oval Office” in response to critics who have questioned the president’s mental fitness. [SEP] Health of Donald Trump // end of April 2017 he was able to forward the petition with more than 41,000 signatures of mental healthcare professionals to Washington D.C.. The core of the petition stated: "My professional judgement is that Donald Trump manifests a serious mental illness that renders him psychologically incapable of competently discharging the duties of President of the United States. And I respectfully request him [sic] be removed from office, according to article 3 of the 25th Amendment, and so on". Gartner asserted that Trump's mental handicaps are a mix of 1. narcissism, 2. paranoia; 3. sociopathy; and 4. a dash of sadism.
A letter by Dr. Keith Albow said President Trump is “stone cold sane” and that “there’s a genius in the Oval Office” in response to critics who have questioned the president’s mental fitness. [SEP] The Dangerous Case of Donald Trump // and sociopathy. Consequently, Trump's presidency represents an emergency not only allowing, but perhaps also requiring, psychiatrists to deviate from the American Psychiatric Association's Goldwater rule, which holds that it is unethical for psychiatrists to give professional opinions about public figures without examining them in person. According to Jeanne Suk Gerson in "The New Yorker", "A strange consensus does appear to be forming around Trump’s mental state," including Democrats and Republicans who doubt Trump's fitness for office. In a blog post republished on "Salon" in September 2017, journalist Bill Moyers wrote that "[t]here will not be a book published this fall
A letter by Dr. Keith Albow said President Trump is “stone cold sane” and that “there’s a genius in the Oval Office” in response to critics who have questioned the president’s mental fitness. [SEP] Health of Donald Trump // the word 'would' instead of 'wouldn't'". Former Republican governor of New Jersey, Christine Todd Whitman wrote of this assertion that if Trump did make this error, "it demonstrates his inability to articulate accurately U.S. foreign policy at the highest level, for the highest stakes". Trump has dismissed questions regarding his mental health, stating that he is a "very stable genius". As evidence of his mental capacities, he pointed to his business success, his victory over Republican competitors, and his election to the presidency against Hillary Clinton. Trump and others have asserted that such questions are evidence of a problem with
A letter by Dr. Keith Albow said President Trump is “stone cold sane” and that “there’s a genius in the Oval Office” in response to critics who have questioned the president’s mental fitness. [SEP] Health of Donald Trump // his critics, labeling them as suffering from a "Trump derangement syndrome" (TDS). For example, commenting on the book "The Dangerous Case of Donald Trump", RealClearPolitics writer Carl M. Cannon argued that the foreword by psychiatrist Robert Jay Lifton "offers the melodramatic view that clinicians who don't warn the world about Donald Trump's shortcomings are akin to Nazi doctors who worked at Auschwitz. At the risk of practicing medicine without a license, I'd suggest that this historical comparison is "de facto" evidence of TDS – and paranoid grandiosity". In response to speculation about his cognitive abilities, Trump was administered the Montreal
Once a woman enters into the sex trade, her average life expectancy is seven years. [SEP] Sexually active life expectancy // to report that they were even interested in having sex and that they were having good quality sex . In addition, the research demonstrated that only 51.8% of women in a later stage of life reported being satisfied by their sexual life compared to 71.1% of men. Furthermore, their research showed that men in good or excellent health could gain an extra five to seven years for participating in regular sexual activity. Where as women would only gain three to six years given they had substantial health. Even though the gender gap is evident, the research provides a clear association
Once a woman enters into the sex trade, her average life expectancy is seven years. [SEP] Sexually active life expectancy // measure of sexually active life expectancy was introduced by Lindau and Gavrilova. Through their study of two cohorts, researchers Lindau and Gavrilova found that sexual activity, a good quality sex life, and interest in sex were associated with self rated health in a positive way. Their research focused on midlife and later life health. This included ages 27 to 74 years and 57 to 85 years. In their findings they concluded that a gender difference was present with increasing age. Evidence proved that men were more likely than women to be engaging in sexual activity. Men were also more likely
Once a woman enters into the sex trade, her average life expectancy is seven years. [SEP] Sex workers' rights // universal pension scheme." A spokesperson for the Network also informed the media that sex workers in India retire "by the age of 40-45 years", an earlier age than the broader population. A study by Janice Raymond states that there can be many detrimental consequences to legalizing and decriminalizing prostitution. One consequence mentioned was that prostitution can be seen as a suitable and normal option for the poor. Therefore, poor women can be easily exploited when there is a lack of sexual services which does not lead to their empowerment. Melissa Farley supported this idea with an analysis stating that most
Once a woman enters into the sex trade, her average life expectancy is seven years. [SEP] History of human sexuality // deep, radically impacting the expected average lifespan as reported by the BBC News: "[The expected average lifespan] is falling in many African countries – a girl born today in Sierra Leone could expect only to live to 36, in contrast to Japan, where today's newborn girl might reach 85 on average." History of human sexuality The social construction of sexual behavior—its taboos, regulation, and social and political impact—has had a profound effect on the various cultures of the world since prehistoric times. The work of Swiss jurist Johann Bachofen made a major impact on the study of the history of
Once a woman enters into the sex trade, her average life expectancy is seven years. [SEP] Life expectancy // (those under 2 pounds or 900 g), females again have a higher survival rate. At the other extreme, about 90% of individuals aged 110 are female. The difference in life expectancy between men and women in the United States dropped from 7.8 years in 1979 to 5.3 years in 2005, with women expected to live to age 80.1 in 2005. Also, data from the UK shows the gap in life expectancy between men and women decreasing in later life. This may be attributable to the effects of infant mortality and young adult death rates. In the past, mortality rates for
Once a woman enters into the sex trade, her average life expectancy is seven years. [SEP] Human // various reasons, including biological/genetic causes, women live on average about four years longer than men— the global average life expectancy at birth of a girl is estimated at 70.2 years compared to 66.1 for a boy. There are significant geographical variations in human life expectancy, mostly correlated with economic development—for example life expectancy at birth in Hong Kong is 84.8 years for girls and 78.9 for boys, while in Swaziland, primarily because of AIDS, it is 31.3 years for both sexes. The developed world is generally aging, with the median age around 40 years. In the developing world the median
Once a woman enters into the sex trade, her average life expectancy is seven years. [SEP] Lutici // life expectancy of women results from puerperal mortality: An average woman gave birth to three to four children in intervals of three to four years. The average heights of adult males was and for adult women. Medical research of teeth revealed a healthy diet with sufficient protein and low carbohydrate shares and a two-year breastfeeding period. Serious pathological deformations of bones were found in 28% of the adult Sanzkow skeletons, less serious ones in 44%. Most adults suffered from spondylosis deformans, especially men above the age of twenty years, but also women above the age of thirty years. Combined with
Once a woman enters into the sex trade, her average life expectancy is seven years. [SEP] Drugs and prostitution // work early in their lives. The average age for people who engage in sex work with drug abuse was five months younger than those whom have had no problem with drugs (19 years and 2 months old, instead of 19 years 7 months old). Drug use is also linked with outdoor cruising, which involves cruising around a street looking for clients, and independent drifting which means prostitution from personal phones or crack houses. 84% of these workers, whom work in this sector, reported problems with drug use, in comparison to the 13%, who work in an indoor-associated escort-type agency, such
Once a woman enters into the sex trade, her average life expectancy is seven years. [SEP] Prostitution // 4% were under 18. The length of these prostitutes' working careers was estimated at a mean of 5 years. According to a 2012 report by "Fondation Scelles" there are between 40 and 42 million prostitutes in the world. In 2003, it was estimated that in Amsterdam, one woman in 35 was working as a prostitute, compared to one in 300 in London. The number of men who have used a prostitute at least once varies widely from country to country, from an estimated low of between 7% and 8.8% in the United Kingdom, to a high of between 59% and
Once a woman enters into the sex trade, her average life expectancy is seven years. [SEP] Sex trafficking // by J. Potterat "et al.", it was determined that the average lifespan for women engaged in prostitution in Colorado Springs was 34 years. Sex trafficking of women and children is the second most common type of trafficking for export in Africa. In Ghana, "connection men" or traffickers are witnessed regularly at border crossings and transport individuals via fake visas. Women are most commonly trafficked to Belgium, Italy, Lebanon, Libya, the Netherlands, Nigeria, and the United States. Belgium, the Netherlands, Spain, and the United States are also common destination countries for trafficked Nigerian women. In Uganda, the Lord's Resistance Army traffics
A warning about a chemical   called benzene that is linked to cancer such as leukemia .  The   warning says that benzene can build up inside parked automobiles and   suggests that drivers roll down   their windows to ventilate the car’s interior prior to switching on   the air conditioner. [SEP] Benzene // myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS), acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), and chronic myeloid leukemia (CML). The American Petroleum Institute (API) stated in 1948 that "it is generally considered that the only absolutely safe concentration for benzene is zero". There is no safe exposure level; even tiny amounts can cause harm. The US Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS) classifies benzene as a human carcinogen. Long-term exposure to excessive levels of benzene in the air causes leukemia, a potentially fatal cancer of the blood-forming organs. In particular, acute myeloid leukemia or acute nonlymphocytic leukemia (AML & ANLL) is not disputed to be caused
A warning about a chemical   called benzene that is linked to cancer such as leukemia .  The   warning says that benzene can build up inside parked automobiles and   suggests that drivers roll down   their windows to ventilate the car’s interior prior to switching on   the air conditioner. [SEP] Sharkey Landfill // found on many everyday food items, even the shortest exposure(through breathing or eating) to high amounts of benzene can lead to extreme cases of nausea, dizziness/tiredness, and can cause damage to the central nervous system, leading to things like paralysis, coma or death. Benzene is also a known carcinogen, and can cause things like anemia, leukemia, and if in contact with eyes, can cause blindness. As for environmental damage, benzene is very similar to toluene in that it is a VOC, and can cause poisonous smog if in contact with high amounts of light and moisture, and is also a
A warning about a chemical   called benzene that is linked to cancer such as leukemia .  The   warning says that benzene can build up inside parked automobiles and   suggests that drivers roll down   their windows to ventilate the car’s interior prior to switching on   the air conditioner. [SEP] Environmental impact of the petroleum industry // oil and gasoline and is known to cause leukaemia in humans. The compound is also known to lower the white blood cell count in humans, which would leave people exposed to it more susceptible to infections. "Studies have linked benzene exposure in the mere parts per billion (ppb) range to terminal leukemia, Hodgkin's lymphoma, and other blood and immune system diseases within 5-15 years of exposure." Emissions from the petroleum industry occur in every chain of the oil producing process from the extraction to the consumption phase . In the extraction phase there are emissions of not only carbon dioxide
A warning about a chemical   called benzene that is linked to cancer such as leukemia .  The   warning says that benzene can build up inside parked automobiles and   suggests that drivers roll down   their windows to ventilate the car’s interior prior to switching on   the air conditioner. [SEP] Exhaust gas // to bodily tissues. In 2011, 52% of carbon monoxide emissions were created by mobile vehicles in the U.S. Chronic (long-term) exposure to benzene (CH) damages bone marrow. It can also cause excessive bleeding and depress the immune system, increasing the chance of infection. Benzene causes leukemia and is associated with other blood cancers and pre-cancers of the blood. The health effects of inhaling airborne particulate matter have been widely studied in humans and animals and include asthma, lung cancer, cardiovascular issues, premature death. Because of the size of the particles, they can penetrate the deepest part of the lungs. A
A warning about a chemical   called benzene that is linked to cancer such as leukemia .  The   warning says that benzene can build up inside parked automobiles and   suggests that drivers roll down   their windows to ventilate the car’s interior prior to switching on   the air conditioner. [SEP] Risk factors for breast cancer // benzene. The International Agency for Research on Cancer and the National Toxicology Program have labeled benzene as a definite human carcinogen. Multiple studies point to a correlation between benzene exposure and breast cancer risk. Laboratory studies on mice have shown that a high level of benzene exposure can lead to mammary cancer. Although the pesticide DDT was banned over 20 years ago, studies have shown that there are still trace amounts found in certain agricultural products, as well as in human and animal milk. While individual studies have come to conflicting conclusions, the most recent reviews of all the evidence
A warning about a chemical   called benzene that is linked to cancer such as leukemia .  The   warning says that benzene can build up inside parked automobiles and   suggests that drivers roll down   their windows to ventilate the car’s interior prior to switching on   the air conditioner. [SEP] Benzene // by benzene. IARC rated benzene as "known to be carcinogenic to humans" (Group 1). As benzene is ubiquitous in gasoline and hydrocarbon fuels are in use everywhere, human exposure to benzene is a global health problem. Benzene targets liver, kidney, lung, heart and the brain and can cause DNA strand breaks, chromosomal damage, etc. Benzene causes cancer in animals including humans. Benzene has been shown to cause cancer in both sexes of multiple species of laboratory animals exposed via various routes. According to the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry (ATSDR) (2007), benzene is both an anthropogenically produced and
A warning about a chemical   called benzene that is linked to cancer such as leukemia .  The   warning says that benzene can build up inside parked automobiles and   suggests that drivers roll down   their windows to ventilate the car’s interior prior to switching on   the air conditioner. [SEP] Price Landfill // the bodies peripheral nervous system which weakens the lower half of the body causing a tingling sensation and loss of coordination; affect fertility and may even cause the loss of a fetus during pregnancy; cause respiratory damage which can led to cancer; cause hearing loss or other damage of the 5 senses. Benzene is a clear liquid and can be described as being sweet smelling. It was once one of the top 20 used chemicals in the United States, being found in gasoline, rubber, plastics, oils, and even explosives. Benzene is also a carcinogen, meaning it can cause cancer if
A warning about a chemical   called benzene that is linked to cancer such as leukemia .  The   warning says that benzene can build up inside parked automobiles and   suggests that drivers roll down   their windows to ventilate the car’s interior prior to switching on   the air conditioner. [SEP] Risk factors for breast cancer // amines have been found to cause mammary cancer in rats. Studies have shown that women who eat higher amounts of overcooked meat, meaning more exposure to heterocyclic amines, have also been diagnosed with more post-menopausal breast cancer. Heterocyclic amines also have the ability to copy estrogen and in laboratory studies have been found to encourage the growth of cancerous tumors on human tissue. Benzene is a petrochemical solvent. Benzene exposure mostly originates from air pollution resulting from industrial burning, exhaust and gas fumes, as well as cigarette smoke. Petroleum, its distillates such as gasoline, auto and truck exhausts also contain
A warning about a chemical   called benzene that is linked to cancer such as leukemia .  The   warning says that benzene can build up inside parked automobiles and   suggests that drivers roll down   their windows to ventilate the car’s interior prior to switching on   the air conditioner. [SEP] Benzene // that the worker can escape from a given contaminated environment in the event of failure of the respiratory protection equipment and (2) is considered a maximum level above which only a highly reliable breathing apparatus providing maximum worker protection is permitted [NIOSH 2004]. In September 1995, NIOSH issued a new policy for developing recommended exposure limits (RELs) for substances, including carcinogens. As benzene can cause cancer, NIOSH recommends that all workers wear special breathing equipment when they are likely to be exposed to benzene at levels exceeding the REL (10-hour) of 0.1 ppm. The NIOSH short-term exposure limit (STEL –
A warning about a chemical   called benzene that is linked to cancer such as leukemia .  The   warning says that benzene can build up inside parked automobiles and   suggests that drivers roll down   their windows to ventilate the car’s interior prior to switching on   the air conditioner. [SEP] New car smell // Chemicals found in the cars included the carcinogen benzene, two other possible carcinogens cyclohexanone and styrene, and several other toxic chemicals. A more recent study in Japan found that the volatile organic chemicals in a new minivan were over 35 times the health limit the day after its delivery. In four months levels had fallen under the limit but increased again in the hot summer months, taking three years to permanently remain below the limit. The limits were set by the Japanese health ministry in response to more car owners suffering from sick building syndrome. A "Daily Telegraph" article on
Women who quit hormone therapy still live with cancer risk [SEP] Hormone replacement therapy // alone. HRT has been more strongly associated with risk of breast cancer in women with low or normal body mass index (BMI) of less than 25, but no association has been observed in women with a high body mass index. Research has found that increased breast cancer risk applies only to those women who take progestins, but not to those taking bioidentical progesterone itself, nor to hysterectomized women who take estrogen alone. It has been suggested by some that the absence of effect in these studies could be due to selective prescription to overweight women, or to the very low
Women who quit hormone therapy still live with cancer risk [SEP] Risk factors for breast cancer // advanced stages and larger tumors) compared with cancers occurring in the placebo group, and HRT was also associated with a substantial increase in abnormal mammograms. Short-term use of hormones for treatment of menopausal symptoms appears to confer little or no breast cancer risk. A correlation was found between the use of hormonal contraceptives and subsequent reliance on hormone replacement therapy. Prophylactic oophorectomy (removal of ovaries) and mastectomy in individuals with high-risk mutations of BRCA1 or BRCA2 genes reduces the risk of developing breast cancer as well as reducing the risk of developing ovarian cancer. Because of a complex balance of
Women who quit hormone therapy still live with cancer risk [SEP] Risk factors for breast cancer // relative risk of breast cancer of 1.35 for women who had used HRT for 5 or more years after menopause. The estrogen-plus-progestin arm of the Women's Health Initiative (WHI), a randomized controlled trial, which randomized more than 16,000 postmenopausal women to receive combined hormone therapy or placebo, was halted early (2002) because health risks exceeded benefits. One of the adverse outcomes prompting closure was a significant increase in both total and invasive breast cancers (hazard ratio = 1.24) in women randomized to receive estrogen and progestin for an average of 5 years. HRT-related breast cancers had adverse prognostic characteristics (more
Women who quit hormone therapy still live with cancer risk [SEP] Million Women Study // from some previous studies, and has now been confirmed with the larger numbers available in this study. The findings come from analyses on 948,576 post-menopausal women in the study, followed up for about 5 years. Women currently taking HRT were at higher risk of developing and of dying from ovarian cancer than women not using HRT. Past users were not at increased risk. The risk in current users was increased about 1.2 fold; for every 1000 women using HRT, 2.6 developed ovarian cancer over 5 years, compared with 2.2 in those not taking HRT. The risk was the same for
Women who quit hormone therapy still live with cancer risk [SEP] Hormone replacement therapy // when using estrogen. They were given either placebo or CEEs alone. This group did not show the risks demonstrated in the combination hormone study, and the estrogen-only study was not halted in 2002. However, in February 2004 it, too, was halted. While there was a 23% decreased incidence of breast cancer in the estrogen-only study participants, risks of stroke and pulmonary embolism were increased slightly, predominantly in patients who began HRT over the age of 60. The WHI trial was limited by low adherence, high attrition, inadequate power to detect risks for some outcomes, and evaluation of few regimens. The
Women who quit hormone therapy still live with cancer risk [SEP] Bernadine Healy // a $625 million effort to study the causes, prevention, and cures of diseases that affect women at midlife and beyond. The study continues to unearth critical information, including evidence in 2002 that combined hormone replacement therapy increases the risk of invasive breast cancers by 26% and heart attack by 27% as well as an increased risk for stroke. The study's findings have resulted in a permanent 15% annual reduction in invasive estrogen positive breast cancer in post menopausal women in the U.S.; The HRT (hormone replacement) drug market in the United States simultaneously dropped by 50% to $1 billion, twelve
Women who quit hormone therapy still live with cancer risk [SEP] Breast cancer // this possible risk. In breast cancer survivors, it is recommended to first consider non-hormonal options for menopausal effects, such as bisphosphonates or selective estrogen receptor modulators (SERMs) for osteoporosis, and vaginal estrogen for local symptoms. Observational studies of systemic hormone replacement therapy after breast cancer are generally reassuring. If hormone replacement is necessary after breast cancer, estrogen-only therapy or estrogen therapy with an intrauterine device with progestogen may be safer options than combined systemic therapy. Treatments are being evaluated in trials. This includes individual drugs, combinations of drugs, and surgical and radiation techniques Investigations include new types of targeted therapy,
Women who quit hormone therapy still live with cancer risk [SEP] Million Women Study // of breast cancer was retracted in a 2012 paper in the "Journal of Family Planning and Reproductive Health Care". The paper's authors, led by Samuel Shapiro of the University of Cape Town, revealed that the study had not in fact establish a causal relationship between HRT and breast cancer, and admitted that their original analysis had been flawed. It is well known that post-menopausal women who have not had a hysterectomy are at increased risk of cancer of the endometrium (the lining of the womb) if they take estrogen-only HRT. Follow up of over 700 000 women in the Million
Women who quit hormone therapy still live with cancer risk [SEP] Hormone replacement therapy // in postmenopausal women. Both age groups had a slightly higher incidence of breast cancer, and both heart attack and stroke were increased in older patients, although not in younger participants. In fact, the use of HRT in the United States has actually dropped greatly since 2002. Breast cancer was increased in women treated with estrogen and a progestin, but not with estrogen and progesterone or estrogen alone. Treatment with unopposed estrogen (i.e., an estrogen alone without a progestogen) is contraindicated if the uterus is still present, due to its proliferative effect on the endometrium. The WHI also found a reduced
Women who quit hormone therapy still live with cancer risk [SEP] V. Craig Jordan // branched out into the prevention of multiple diseases in women with the discovery of the drug group, selective estrogen receptor modulator (SERMs). Currently, he plans to develop a new Hormone Replacement Therapy (HRT) for post-menopausal women that prevents breast cancer and does not increase the risk of breast cancer. A highly regarded researcher, his paper "The Effect of Raloxifene on Risk of Breast Cancer in Postmenopausal Women - Results from the more Randomized Trial" was one of the top 20 most cited papers in breast cancer research during 2003 and 2004. Born in New Braunfels, Texas, US, Jordan moved to
World must prepare for inevitable next flu pandemic, WHO says. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic // in preparation. On 12 April 2010, Keiji Fukuda, the WHO's top influenza expert, stated that the system leading to the declaration of a pandemic led to confusion about H1N1 circulating around the world, and he expressed concern that there was a failure to communicate in regard to uncertainties about the new virus, which turned out to be not as deadly as feared. WHO Director-General Margaret Chan has appointed 29 flu experts from outside the organization to conduct a review of WHO's handling of the H1N1 flu pandemic. She has told them, "We want a frank, critical, transparent, credible and independent
World must prepare for inevitable next flu pandemic, WHO says. [SEP] Influenza pandemic // World Health Organization, the European Commission, the National Influenza Centers, and others. In September 2005, David Nabarro, a lead UN health official warned that a bird flu outbreak could happen anytime and had the potential to kill 5–150 million people. The World Health Organization (WHO), believing that the world was closer to another influenza pandemic than it has been any time since 1968, when the last of the 20th century's three pandemics swept the globe, has developed guidelines on pandemic influenza preparedness and response. The March 2005 plan includes guidance on roles and responsibilities in preparedness and response; information on
World must prepare for inevitable next flu pandemic, WHO says. [SEP] Bioterrorism // York Times" report, the Gates Foundation predicted that a modern outbreak similar to the Spanish Influenza pandemic (which killed between 50 million and 100 million people) could end up killing more than 360 million people worldwide, even considering widespread availability of vaccines and other healthcare tools. The report cited increased globalization, rapid international air travel, and urbanization as increased reasons for concern. In a March 9, 2017 interview with CNBC, former U.S. Senator Joe Lieberman, who was co-chair of the bipartisan Blue Ribbon Study Panel on Biodefense, said a worldwide pandemic could end the lives of more people than a
World must prepare for inevitable next flu pandemic, WHO says. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic // much to prepare for the current H1N1 flu outbreak, noting that after H5N1 emerged in Asia, ultimately killing about 60% of the few hundred people infected by it over the years, many countries took steps to try to prevent any similar crisis from spreading further. The CDC and other U.S. governmental agencies used the summer lull to take stock of the United States' response to H1N1 flu and attempt to patch any gaps in the public health safety net before flu season started in early autumn. Preparations included planning a second influenza vaccination program in addition to that for seasonal
World must prepare for inevitable next flu pandemic, WHO says. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic timeline // 193 member states. "Had things gone wrong in any of these areas, we would have a very different agenda before us today," she added." US Researchers discover the mutation which had enabled the pandemic. WHO Director-General Margaret Chan officially declares the H1N1 pandemic over as countries are now seeing a mix of H1N1, H3N2, and B viruses, with some populaces displaying community-level immunity to H1N1 of 20% to 40%. Nevertheless, Angus Nicoll of the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control urged health officials worldwide to "prepare for a new type of seasonal flu to appear in the near future
World must prepare for inevitable next flu pandemic, WHO says. [SEP] Influenza pandemic // the current portal: Pandemic Flu Search. On 26 August 2004, Secretary of Health and Human Services, Tommy Thompson released a draft Pandemic Influenza Response and Preparedness Plan, which outlined a coordinated national strategy to prepare for and respond to an influenza pandemic. Public comments were accepted for 60 days. In a speech before the United Nations General Assembly on 14 September 2005, President George W. Bush announced the creation of the International Partnership on Avian and Pandemic Influenza. The Partnership brings together nations and international organizations to improve global readiness by: On 5 October 2005, Democratic Senators Harry Reid, Evan
World must prepare for inevitable next flu pandemic, WHO says. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic timeline // Islands did not report." WHO At least 12,220 deaths globally are formally confirmed. (By contrast, the WHO estimates that the seasonal flu kills from 250,000 to 300,000 people around the world each year.) Overall, the activity of the H1N1 pandemic has peaked. WHO In Geneva Dr. Margaret Chan, Director-General of the WHO, remarks in the context of the H5N1 bird flu virus that "The fact that the long overdue influenza pandemic is so moderate in its impact is probably the best health news of the decade" but that "No, the world is not ready for a pandemic to be caused
World must prepare for inevitable next flu pandemic, WHO says. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic timeline // Dr. Margaret Chan states at the U.N.'s World Health Assembly that "We are just plain lucky ... This has been the case with the A/ H1N1 influenza pandemic... The virus did not mutate to a more lethal form. Cases of resistance to oseltamivir remained few and isolated. The vaccine closely matched circulating viruses and showed an excellent safety record," Chan said. "Emergency wards and intensive care units were often strained, few health systems were overwhelmed ... Schools closed, but borders remained open, and disruptions to travel and trade were far less severe than feared," she told delegates from the agency's
World must prepare for inevitable next flu pandemic, WHO says. [SEP] Pandemic H1N1/09 virus // (WHO) Director-General Margaret Chan said that the virus must be closely monitored in the southern hemisphere, as it could mix with ordinary seasonal influenza and change in unpredictable ways. Experts writing in the July issue of "The New England Journal of Medicine" note that historically, pandemic viruses have evolved between seasons, and the current strain may become more severe or transmissible in the coming months. They therefore stress the importance of international cooperation to engage in proper surveillance to help monitor changes in the virus's behavior, which will aid in both "vaccine targeting" and interpreting illness patterns in the fall
World must prepare for inevitable next flu pandemic, WHO says. [SEP] Ali S. Khan // hemorrhagic fever, monkeypox, Rift Valley fever, avian influenza, severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS), the Asian tsunami, and the initial public health response to Hurricane Katrina in New Orleans. In 2016 Khan published "The Next Pandemic" (with William Patrick). In it he recounts some of his experiences responding to outbreaks all over the world, including many of those mentioned above. Besides his personal experiences, he also provides a great deal of background information for readers interested in public health and emerging diseases. Ali S. Khan Rear Admiral Ali S. Khan is an American practicing physician and former Director of the Office
300,000 Floridians have lost their health insurance" as a result of Obamacare. [SEP] Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act // the causes of insurer losses is the lower income, older and sicker enrollee population. Newly elected Louisiana Governor John Bel Edwards issued an executive order to accept the expansion, becoming the 32nd state to do so. The program was expected to enroll an additional 300,000 Louisianans. More than 9.2 million people signed up for care on the national exchange (healthcare.gov) for 2017, down some 400,000 from 2016. This decline was due primarily to the election of President Trump. Of the 9.2 million, 3.0 million were new customers and 6.2 million were returning. The 9.2 million excludes the 11 states that
300,000 Floridians have lost their health insurance" as a result of Obamacare. [SEP] Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act // passed it by reconciliation on March 25, and Obama signed it on March 30. The law has caused a significant reduction in the number and percentage of people without health insurance. The CDC reported that the percentage of people without health insurance fell from 16.0% in 2010 to 8.9% from January to June 2016. The uninsured rate dropped in every congressional district in the U.S. from 2013 to 2015. The Congressional Budget Office reported in March 2016 that there were approximately 12 million people covered by the exchanges (10 million of whom received subsidies to help pay for insurance) and
300,000 Floridians have lost their health insurance" as a result of Obamacare. [SEP] Economic policy of Donald Trump // 3.2 million more uninsured represents 4,000 avoidable deaths. "The New York Times" reported in December 2017 that about 8.8 million persons signed up for ACA coverage via the marketplace exchanges for the 2018 policy period, roughly 96% of the 9.2 million who signed-up for the 2017 policy period. An estimated 2.4 million were new customers and 6.4 million returned. These figures represent the national Healthcare.gov exchanges in 39 states and not 11 states that operate their own exchanges and also reported strong enrollment. The enrollment numbers "essentially defied President Trump's assertion that 'Obamacare is imploding'". About 80% of persons who
300,000 Floridians have lost their health insurance" as a result of Obamacare. [SEP] Economy of the United States // services, with the exception of the Veteran's Administration, where doctors are employed by the government. Multiple surveys indicate the number of uninsured fell between 2013–2016 due to expanded Medicaid eligibility and health insurance exchanges established due to the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, also known as the "ACA" or "Obamacare". According to the United States Census Bureau, in 2012 there were 45.6 million people in the US (14.8% of the under-65 population) who were without health insurance. Following the implementation of major ACA provisions in 2013, this figure fell by 18.3 million or 40%, to 27.3 million by 2016
300,000 Floridians have lost their health insurance" as a result of Obamacare. [SEP] Political positions of Barack Obama // million people with health insurance via a combination of state healthcare exchanges and an extension of Medicaid. It lowered the rate of those without health insurance from approximately 16% in 2010 to 9% by 2015. Throughout his administration, healthcare costs continued moderating; for example, healthcare premiums for those covered by employers rose by 69% between 2000 and 2005, but only by 27% from 2010 to 2015. By 2017, nearly 70% of those on the exchanges could purchase insurance for less than $75 per month after subsidies. The law was evaluated multiple times by the Congressional Budget Office, which scored it
300,000 Floridians have lost their health insurance" as a result of Obamacare. [SEP] Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act // The CBO estimated that the repeal would cause 13 million people to lose their health insurance by 2027. Senator Lamar Alexander and Senator Patty Murray reached a compromise to amend the Affordable Care Act to fund cost cost-sharing reductions. President Trump had stopped paying the cost sharing subsidies and the Congressional Budget Office estimated his action would cost $200 billion, cause insurance sold on the exchange to cost 20% more and cause one million people to lose insurance. The plan will also provide more flexibility for state waivers, allow a new "Copper Plan" or catastrophic coverage for all, allow interstate
300,000 Floridians have lost their health insurance" as a result of Obamacare. [SEP] United States // on the economy. In 2010, the Obama administration passed the Affordable Care Act, which made the most sweeping reforms to the nation's healthcare system in nearly five decades, including mandates, subsidies and insurance exchanges. The law caused a significant reduction in the number and percentage of people without health insurance, with 24 million covered during 2016, but remains controversial due to its impact on healthcare costs, insurance premiums, and economic performance. Although the recession reached its trough in June 2009, voters remained frustrated with the slow pace of the economic recovery. The Republicans, who stood in opposition to Obama's policies,
300,000 Floridians have lost their health insurance" as a result of Obamacare. [SEP] Economic policy of the Barack Obama administration // majority of congressional Democrats voted for the law, while no Republicans in the House or Senate did so. Republicans, mainly in the House of Representatives, attempted on as many as 60 occasions to repeal, defund, or delay the law during Obama's tenure, but to no avail. By 2016, the law covered approximately 24 million people with health insurance via a combination of state healthcare exchanges and funding for the state-level expansion of Medicaid to more people. It lowered the rate of those without health insurance from approximately 16% in 2010 to 9% by 2015. Poltifact cited various estimates that only
300,000 Floridians have lost their health insurance" as a result of Obamacare. [SEP] Health insurance coverage in the United States // 2013-2016 due to expanded Medicaid eligibility and health insurance exchanges established due to the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, also known as the "ACA" or "Obamacare". According to the United States Census Bureau, in 2012 there were 45.6 million people in the US (14.8% of the under-65 population) who were without health insurance. Following the implementation of major ACA provisions in 2013, this figure fell by 18.3 million or 40%, to 27.3 million by 2016 or 8.6% of the under-65 population. The Census Bureau reported that the number of uninsured persons rose from 27.3 million in 2016 to 28.0
300,000 Floridians have lost their health insurance" as a result of Obamacare. [SEP] Implementation history of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act // 2017. The CBO estimated that the repeal would cause 13 million people to lose their health insurance by 2027. Senator Lamar Alexander and Senator Patty Murray reached a compromise to amend the Affordable Care Act to fund cost cost-sharing reductions. President Trump had stopped paying the cost sharing subsidies and the Congressional Budget Office estimated his action would cost $200 billion, cause insurance sold on the exchange to cost 20% more and cause one million people to lose insurance. The plan will also provide more flexibility for state waivers, allow a new "Copper Plan" or catastrophic coverage for all, allow
The state of California ignored structural issues with the Oroville dam and paid for programs to benefit undocumented people instead. [SEP] Friends of the River // the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) to require the managers of Oroville Dam in California to lay concrete on the emergency spillway. The motion was rejected, and approximately 12 years later the emergency spillway was used and began to erode, threatening the dam with potential collapse. Oroville and the surrounding area were evacuated. Charity Navigator gives the organization four stars out of four for accountability and transparency and three out of four stars overall. In fiscal year ending 12/2014, the organization spent 69.5% of its revenue on program expenses, 13.9% on administrative expenses, and 16.6% on fundraising expenses. Friends of
The state of California ignored structural issues with the Oroville dam and paid for programs to benefit undocumented people instead. [SEP] Oroville Dam // on fish migration have included the construction of a salmon/steelhead fish incubator on the river, which began shortly after the dam was completed. In February 2017, the main and emergency spillways threatened to fail, leading to the evacuation of 188,000 people living near the dam. After deterioration of the main spillway largely stabilized and the water level of the dam's reservoir dropped below the top of the emergency spillway, the evacuation order was lifted. In 1935, work began on the Central Valley Project (CVP), a federal water project that would develop the Sacramento and San Joaquin river systems for irrigation
The state of California ignored structural issues with the Oroville dam and paid for programs to benefit undocumented people instead. [SEP] Oroville Dam crisis // threatened to undermine and collapse the concrete weir, which could have sent a 30-foot (10 m) wall of water into the Feather River below and flooded communities downstream. No collapse occurred, but the water further damaged the main spillway and eroded the bare slope of the emergency spillway. Oroville Dam, an important part of the California State Water Project, is an earthen embankment dam on the Feather River, east of the city of Oroville in Northern California. The dam is used for flood control, water storage, hydroelectric power generation, and water quality improvement in the Sacramento–San Joaquin River Delta. Completed
The state of California ignored structural issues with the Oroville dam and paid for programs to benefit undocumented people instead. [SEP] Oroville Dam // Feather River from the Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta into the State Water Project's California Aqueduct, which provides a major supply of water for irrigation in the San Joaquin Valley as well as municipal and industrial water supplies to coastal Southern California, and has prevented large amounts of flood damage to the area — more than $1.3 billion between the years of 1987 and 1999. The dam has confined fish migration up the Feather River and the controlled flow of the river as a result of the Oroville Dam has affected riparian habitat. Multiple attempts at trying to counter the dam's impacts
The state of California ignored structural issues with the Oroville dam and paid for programs to benefit undocumented people instead. [SEP] Oroville Dam crisis // Oroville Dam crisis In February 2017, Oroville Dam's main and emergency spillways were damaged, prompting the evacuation of more than 180,000 people living downstream along the Feather River and the relocation of a fish hatchery. Heavy rainfall during the 2017 California floods damaged the main spillway on February 7, so the California Department of Water Resources stopped the spillway flow to assess the damage and contemplate its next steps. The rain eventually raised the lake level until it flowed over the emergency spillway, even after the damaged main spillway was reopened. As water flowed over the emergency spillway, headward erosion
The state of California ignored structural issues with the Oroville dam and paid for programs to benefit undocumented people instead. [SEP] Oroville Dam crisis // had excavated the original crater into a deep plunge pool which acts as a hydraulic cushion, dissipating much of the energy that otherwise might have caused additional damage to the spillway. The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) ordered the California Department of Water Resources (DWR) to assemble a team of five independent experts to assess the dam and issue recommendations. On February 17, 2017, the DWR commissioned an independent Board of Consultants (BOC) to investigate causes, review and comment on repairs to Oroville Dam. Memoranda (reports) prepared by the BOC are posted at the DWR web site. DWR also assembled
The state of California ignored structural issues with the Oroville dam and paid for programs to benefit undocumented people instead. [SEP] Oroville Dam // the Feather River Project, the direct predecessor to the SWP, which included a major dam on the Feather River at Oroville, and aqueducts and pumping plants to transfer stored water to destinations in central and southern California. The proposed project was strongly opposed by voters in Northern California and parts of Southern California that received water from the Colorado River, but was supported by other Southern Californians and San Joaquin Valley farmers. However, major flooding in the 1950s prompted the 1957 passage of an emergency flood-control bill that provided sufficient funding for construction for a dam at Oroville – regardless
The state of California ignored structural issues with the Oroville dam and paid for programs to benefit undocumented people instead. [SEP] California State Water Project // rivers, especially the Klamath – the largest Pacific coast salmon river south of the Columbia River. The project would have eliminated 98 percent of the salmon spawning grounds on the Klamath. California Governor Ronald Reagan refused to approve the Dos Rios project, citing economic insensibility and fraudulent claims made by project proponents. The flood control benefits, for example, were largely exaggerated; the Dos Rios dam would have reduced the record Eel River flood crest of 1964 by only had it been in place. In 1980, the North Coast rivers were incorporated into the National Wild and Scenic Rivers system, effectively
The state of California ignored structural issues with the Oroville dam and paid for programs to benefit undocumented people instead. [SEP] Oroville Dam // with the last of 155 million tons (140.6 million t) of material that took over 40,000 train trips to transport. On May 4, 1968, Oroville Dam was officially dedicated by the state of California. Among the notable figures present were California governor Ronald Reagan, who spoke, Chief Justice (formerly California governor) Earl Warren, Senator Thomas Kuchel, and California Representative Harold T. "Bizz" Johnson. The dedication was accompanied by a week of festivities in nearby Oroville, attended by nearly 50,000 people. On October 17, 2005, three environmental groups filed a motion with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission urging federal officials to
The state of California ignored structural issues with the Oroville dam and paid for programs to benefit undocumented people instead. [SEP] California Department of Water Resources // of a key facility in the operation of the State Water Project: Oroville Dam. The DWR and the United States Bureau of Reclamation also signed an agreement to design a joint reservoir in San Luis. Because water from the Oroville and Shasta dams (from the existing Central Valley Project) would be moved down the existing Sacramento River channel into the Sacramento-San Joaquin River Delta, excess flows would roll through the delta and then be stored in the Central Valley until needed. Construction of the Harvey O. Banks Pumping Plant, located near Tracy, California, also began in 1963. Though the DWR
In 2013," Dan Patrick voted "against funding to test the backlog of rape kits, allowing rapists to walk free. [SEP] Debbie Smith Reauthorization Act of 2014 // by President George W. Bush on October 30, 2004. The bill was reauthorized in 2008. At that time, there remained serious concerns about a backlog in the testing of rape kit DNA samples. Investigations conducted by CBS News and by Human Rights Watch revealed in 2009 that despite five years and millions in federal funding, rape kit backlogs persisted in the United States and had increased in several grant supported states and counties. According to a 2009 CBS News investigation, at least 20,000 untested rape kits were being held in four major U.S. cities and an additional twelve major cities
In 2013," Dan Patrick voted "against funding to test the backlog of rape kits, allowing rapists to walk free. [SEP] Dan Patrick (politician) // strongly advocated for a bathroom bill proposed on January 5, 2017 by Senator Lois Kolkhorst of Brenham. Patrick made legislation prohibiting state or local governments from issuing subpoenas on pastors' sermons a priority in the 2017 session. Governor Abbott signed the bill into law on May 21, 2017. Patrick opposes abortion and supported Texas' "Mandatory Ultrasound Bill", a bill signed into law in May 2011 by Governor Perry, which requires women seeking abortion to have a sonogram of the fetus taken at least twenty-four hours before the abortion is performed. Patrick opposes abortion in cases of incest and rape. In
In 2013," Dan Patrick voted "against funding to test the backlog of rape kits, allowing rapists to walk free. [SEP] Debbie Smith Reauthorization Act of 2014 // had no idea how many rape kits remained untested in law enforcement storage facilities. An October 2008 audit of the Los Angeles city crime lab by Human Rights Watch revealed that rape kit backlogs increased between 2004 and 2008, despite nearly $4 million in Debbie Smith DNA Backlog Program grants. In January 2007, the Los Angeles Police Department (LAPD) revealed that approximately 5,000 rape kits resided in LAPD storage facilities. By July 2008 the backlog grew to 7,300, but was later estimated at 5,193 by a February 2009 audit. On March 3, 1989, a man wearing a ski mask entered
In 2013," Dan Patrick voted "against funding to test the backlog of rape kits, allowing rapists to walk free. [SEP] Data activism // system and the national DNA database Combined DNA Index System (CODIS) that left these rape kits unexamined. Testing these rape kits is important in identifying and prosecuting offenders, recognizing serial rapists, and providing justice for rape victims. The Ending the Backlog Initiative brought attention to this issue by demanding that the data from these rape kits be processed. It was this initiative that brought this issue to the attention of the United States government, who began stated that this was unacceptable and put $79 million in grants would be used to help eliminate the backlog of rape kits. The quantification
In 2013," Dan Patrick voted "against funding to test the backlog of rape kits, allowing rapists to walk free. [SEP] Debbie Smith Act // funding, rape kit backlogs persist in the United States and have increased in several grant supported states and counties. According to a 2009 CBS News investigation, at least 20,000 untested rape kits were being held in four major U.S. cities and an additional twelve major cities had no idea how many rape kits remained untested in law enforcement storage facilities. An October 2008 audit of the Los Angeles city crime lab by Human Rights Watch revealed that rape kit backlogs increased between 2004 and 2008, despite nearly $4 million in Debbie Smith DNA Backlog Program grants. In January 2007, the
In 2013," Dan Patrick voted "against funding to test the backlog of rape kits, allowing rapists to walk free. [SEP] Dan Patrick (politician) // bill allowing pastors to refuse marrying couples if it violates their beliefs, and expanded border security and enforcement measures. On May 13, 2016, Patrick criticized the Obama administration, after it released a directive stating that all public schools must allow transgender students to use the bathroom and locker facilities that correspond with their identified gender, stating that, on the prospect of the federal government withholding funding for Texas schools for not following the directive, "he can keep his 30 pieces of silver [and that w]e will not yield to blackmail from the president of the United States." Patrick supported and
In 2013," Dan Patrick voted "against funding to test the backlog of rape kits, allowing rapists to walk free. [SEP] Debbie Smith Reauthorization Act of 2014 // kits that need to be tested, these are lives that need to be given back to their owners," arguing that the bill was very important to the victims of rape. Rep. Carolyn Maloney (D-NY) also spoke in favor of the bill, arguing that "this is one of those rare bills that virtually guarantees that it will put real criminals behind bars and protect people more effectively against one of the most traumatic assaults imaginable." Rep. Bob Goodlatte praised Debbie Smith's courage. He also said that he was "pleased that the House voted today to stand by these brave victims and
In 2013," Dan Patrick voted "against funding to test the backlog of rape kits, allowing rapists to walk free. [SEP] Rape kit // backlog of nearly 8,000 rape kits accumulated between 1995 and 2009, only 20% of which were tested. Effective September 1, 2010, The Illinois Senate's Sexual Assault Submissions Act (Senate Bill 3269) requires law enforcement agencies to submit all evidence collected by rape kits for laboratory analysis within 180 days after the effective date of October 15, 2010, with a written notice to the State Police. Illinois was the first state to adopt such a law, setting a precedent for other states to follow. As of January 1, 2011, the Illinois House of Representatives Bill 5976 addresses victims' confidentiality rights and
In 2013," Dan Patrick voted "against funding to test the backlog of rape kits, allowing rapists to walk free. [SEP] Dan Patrick (politician) // terrorist attacks. Patrick is also frequently at odds with the "Houston Chronicle" and announced a boycott of that newspaper in April 2004. He owned a blog called "Chronically Biased ", which criticized the newspaper. Patrick was first elected to Texas State Senate's seventh district in 2006, winning the primary election with 68.8% of the vote and the general election with 69.2% of the vote. His term began on January 9, 2007 with the convening of the Eightieth Texas Legislature. During his first month as a legislator, Patrick introduced Senate Bill 186. If passed, it would have made abortion in Texas
In 2013," Dan Patrick voted "against funding to test the backlog of rape kits, allowing rapists to walk free. [SEP] Dan Patrick (politician) // illegal should the Supreme Court overturn "Roe v. Wade". The bill was co-sponsored by fellow Texas state senators Craig Estes and Glenn Hegar. Patrick obtained passage of three Senate bills during his first session, the fewest number among the five freshmen senators. The other four freshmen Senators—Glenn Hegar (32 Senate bills passed), Kirk Watson (15 Senate bills passed), Robert Nichols (14 Senate bills passed), and Carlos Uresti (12 bills passed) – had previous government experience in other capacities. In the 2010 general election, Patrick was reelected with 86.4% of the vote. He also endorsed Rick Perry for re-election in the
Gene therapy shown to destroy leukemia tumors [SEP] Chemotherapy // of genetic mutations in oncogenes (genes that control the growth rate of cells) and tumor suppressor genes (genes that help to prevent cancer), which gives cancer cells their malignant characteristics, such as uncontrolled growth. In the broad sense, most chemotherapeutic drugs work by impairing mitosis (cell division), effectively targeting fast-dividing cells. As these drugs cause damage to cells, they are termed "cytotoxic". They prevent mitosis by various mechanisms including damaging DNA and inhibition of the cellular machinery involved in cell division. One theory as to why these drugs kill cancer cells is that they induce a programmed form of cell
Gene therapy shown to destroy leukemia tumors [SEP] Chronic lymphocytic leukemia // patients are the best candidates and which approach is best in different situations. Researchers at the Abramson Cancer Center of the University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine reported preliminary success in the use of gene therapy, through genetically modified T cells, to treat CLL. The findings, which were published in August 2011, were based on data from three patients who had modified T cells injected into their blood. The T cells had been modified to express genes that would allow the cells to proliferate in the body and destroy B cells including those causing the leukemia. Two patients went into
Gene therapy shown to destroy leukemia tumors [SEP] Gene therapy // repeated hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (see also allogeneic stem cell transplantation, allogeneic bone marrow transplantation, allotransplantation) with double-delta-32 mutation which disables the CCR5 receptor. This cure was accepted by the medical community in 2011. It required complete ablation of existing bone marrow, which is very debilitating. In August two of three subjects of a pilot study were confirmed to have been cured from chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). The therapy used genetically modified T cells to attack cells that expressed the CD19 protein to fight the disease. In 2013, the researchers announced that 26 of 59 patients had achieved complete remission
Gene therapy shown to destroy leukemia tumors [SEP] Acute myeloid leukemia // and IDH2, which lead to the generation of a novel oncometabolite, "D"-2-hydroxyglutarate, which inhibits the activity of epigenetic enzymes such as TET2. The hypothesis is that such epigenetic mutations lead to the silencing of tumor suppressor genes and/or the activation of proto-oncogenes. First-line treatment of AML consists primarily of chemotherapy, and is divided into two phases: induction and postremission (or consolidation) therapy. The goal of induction therapy is to achieve a complete remission by reducing the number of leukemic cells to an undetectable level; the goal of consolidation therapy is to eliminate any residual undetectable disease and achieve a cure.
Gene therapy shown to destroy leukemia tumors [SEP] Chemotherapy // out DNA repair. Upregulation of these genes can overcome the DNA damage and prevent the induction of apoptosis. Mutations in genes that produce drug target proteins, such as tubulin, can occur which prevent the drugs from binding to the protein, leading to resistance to these types of drugs. Drugs used in chemotherapy can induce cell stress, which can kill a cancer cell; however, under certain conditions, cells stress can induce changes in gene expression that enables resistance to several types of drugs. Targeted therapies are a relatively new class of cancer drugs that can overcome many of the issues seen
Gene therapy shown to destroy leukemia tumors [SEP] Experimental cancer treatment // the patient to ensure safety via the avoidance of cytolytic destruction of noncancerous cells infected with the vector. However, new studies focus on adenoviruses that can be permitted to reproduce, and destroy cancerous cells in the process, since the adenoviruses' ability to infect normal cells is substantially impaired, potentially resulting in a far more effective treatment. Another use of gene therapy is the introduction of enzymes into these cells that make them susceptible to particular chemotherapy agents; studies with introducing thymidine kinase in gliomas, making them susceptible to aciclovir, are in their experimental stage. Epigenetics is the study of heritable
Gene therapy shown to destroy leukemia tumors [SEP] Artificial cell // survivals amongst patients with advanced-stage pancreatic cancer in phase I/II clinical trials, and a tripling in one-year survival rate. In treatment of genetic diseases, gene therapy aims to insert, alter or remove genes within an afflicted individual's cells. The technology relies heavily on viral vectors which raises concerns about insertional mutagenesis and systemic immune response that have led to human deaths and development of leukemia in clinical trials. Circumventing the need for vectors by using naked or plasmid DNA as its own delivery system also encounters problems such as low transduction efficiency and poor tissue targeting when given systemically. Artificial
Gene therapy shown to destroy leukemia tumors [SEP] Craig B. Thompson // leukemia (CLL). Thompson’s discovery of oncogenic metabolites (succinate, fumarate, and 2-hydroxyglutarate) that can inhibit tumor suppressor function and/or impair cellular differentiation has helped lead to the development of new treatments for leukemia, gliomas, sarcomas, and bladder cancer, currently in clinical trials. In December 2011, The University and its Abramson Family Cancer Research Institute sued Thompson after his move to Memorial Sloan Kettering, charging that he had made use of research conducted at the University of Pennsylvania to start a biotechnology company, Agios Pharmaceuticals that Thompson had co-founded in 2007 while still at the University. While most of the details were
Gene therapy shown to destroy leukemia tumors [SEP] Chemotherapy // a gene are produced by cancer cells. This overcomes the effect of drugs that reduce the expression of genes involved in replication. With more copies of the gene, the drug can not prevent all expression of the gene and therefore the cell can restore its proliferative ability. Cancer cells can also cause defects in the cellular pathways of apoptosis (programmed cell death). As most chemotherapy drugs kill cancer cells in this manner, defective apoptosis allows survival of these cells, making them resistant. Many chemotherapy drugs also cause DNA damage, which can be repaired by enzymes in the cell that carry
Gene therapy shown to destroy leukemia tumors [SEP] Severe combined immunodeficiency // can survive in the presence of the injected ADA. In 2000, a gene therapy "success" resulted in SCID patients with a functional immune system. These trials were stopped when it was discovered that two of ten patients in one trial had developed leukemia resulting from the insertion of the gene-carrying retrovirus near an oncogene. In 2007, four of the ten patients have developed leukemias. Work aimed at improving gene therapy is now focusing on modifying the viral vector to reduce the likelihood of oncogenesis and using zinc-finger nucleases to more specifically target gene insertion. No leukemia cases have yet been
Heart scans tied to “evidence-free” treatment: study [SEP] Myocardial perfusion imaging // Myocardial perfusion imaging scans are "powerful predictors of future clinical events", and in theory may identify patients for whom aggressive therapies should improve outcome. But this is "only a hypothesis, not a proof". However, several trials have indicated the high sensitivity (90%) of the test, regardless of tracer, outweighing any potential detrimental effect of the ionising radiation. In the UK, NICE guidance recommends myocardial perfusion scans following myocardial infarction or reperfusion interventions. The power of prognosis from a myocardial perfusion scan is excellent and has been well tested, and this is "perhaps the area of nuclear cardiology where the evidence
Heart scans tied to “evidence-free” treatment: study [SEP] Drug-eluting stent // Future Revascularization Evaluation in Patients With Diabetes Mellitus—Optimal Management of Multivessel Disease (FREEDOM). The five-year follow-up results of SYNTAX showed, depending on the complexity of coronary vessel disease, PCI was either equally effective or inferior to CABG. Similarly, results from the FREEDOM trial published after five years showed CABG to be superior to PCI in reducing rates of death and myocardial infarction. Both trials found either increased or insignificantly different rates of stroke with CABG as compared to PCI. The registries of the nonrandomized patients screened for these trials may provide as much robust data regarding revascularization outcomes as the
Heart scans tied to “evidence-free” treatment: study [SEP] Valentin Fuster // educational television content, community outreach, and evidence-based research." The FREEDOM trial, involving 150 institutions around the world, is the largest funded study (NIH) in diabetes and is led by Fuster. It aimed at defining the optimal revascularization strategy for diabetic patients with multivessel coronary disease. The striking benefit of surgical revascularization versus stenting represents unique breakthroughs in the cardiovascular field as presented in the 2012 AHA Scientific Sessions and simultaneously published in the NEJM. "The prevention of cardiovascular disease is hindered by several factors, including wide variability in the pattern of prescription among physicians, limited access to expensive drugs in
Heart scans tied to “evidence-free” treatment: study [SEP] Myocardial infarction // an ultrasound scan of the heart, is able to visualize the heart, its size, shape, and any abnormal motion of the heart walls as they beat that may indicate a myocardial infarction. The flow of blood can be imaged, and contrast dyes may be given to improve image. Other scans using radioactive contrast include SPECT CT-scans using thallium, sestamibi (MIBI scans) or tetrofosmin; or a PET scan using Fludeoxyglucose or rubidium-82. These nuclear medicine scans can visualize the perfusion of heart muscle. SPECT may also be used to determine viability of tissue, and whether areas of ischemia are inducible. Medical
Heart scans tied to “evidence-free” treatment: study [SEP] Coronary CT angiography // to 5 total cycles until the entire heart is imaged. The reconstruction algorithm then combines the images from these different cycles to generate one complete image. The advantage of this method is that each image segment is acquired in less time as compared to acquiring the entire heart in one heart cycle, thus improving temporal resolution. The disadvantages are 1) the potential for image artifacts from fusing the image segments and 2) the requirement of additional X-ray radiation for image acquisition. Dual Source CT scanners, introduced in 2005, allow higher temporal resolution by acquiring a full CT slice in only
Heart scans tied to “evidence-free” treatment: study [SEP] Cardiac Arrhythmia Suppression Trial // are proarrhythmic during heart ischemia in animals. Cardiac Arrhythmia Suppression Trial The Cardiac Arrhythmia Suppression Trial (CAST) was a double-blind, randomized, controlled study designed to test the hypothesis that suppression of premature ventricular complexes (PVC) with class I antiarrhythmic agents after a myocardial infarction (MI) would reduce mortality. It was conducted between 1986 and 1989 and included over 1700 patients in 27 centres. The study found that the tested drugs increased mortality instead of lowering it as was expected. The publication of these results in 1991/92, in combination with large follow-up studies for drugs that had not been tested in
Heart scans tied to “evidence-free” treatment: study [SEP] History of invasive and interventional cardiology // RAVEL and SIRIUS trials, interventions were performed on more complex blockages in the coronary arteries, under the assumption that the results in real life would mimic the results in the trials. The antiplatelet regimens that were advised for the drug eluting stents were based on the early trials of these stents. Based on these trials, the antiplatelet regimen was a combination of aspirin and clopidogrel for 3 months when Cypher stents were used, and 9 months when Taxus stents were used, followed by aspirin indefinitely. Soon, case reports started being published regarding late stent thrombosis. At the 2006 annual meeting
Heart scans tied to “evidence-free” treatment: study [SEP] Cardiac imaging // limited by lengthy protocols, claustrophobia and contraindications based on some complex metallic implants (pacemakers, defibrillators, insulin pumps), while artificial valves and coronary stents are generally not problematic. Image quality can be reduced by the continuous movement of heart structures. There is a promising future in cardiac MRI by more efficient scans, increasing availability of scanners and more widespread knowledge about its clinical application. Cardiac imaging Cardiac imaging techniques include coronary catheterization, echocardiogram, Intravascular ultrasound, Cardiac PET scan, Cardiac CT scan and Cardiac MRI. A physician may recommend cardiac imaging to support a diagnosis of a heart condition. Medical specialty professional
Heart scans tied to “evidence-free” treatment: study [SEP] History of invasive and interventional cardiology // As with any large clinical trial, the therapies available had changed from when the trial was designed to when the results were presented. In particular, drug eluting stents, while commonly used in practice at the time the results of the trial were presented, were used in less than 5 percent of individuals in the trial. When the results of the first trials of drug-eluting stents were published, there was a general feeling in the interventional cardiology community that these devices would be part of the perfect revascularization regimen for coronary artery disease. With the very low restenosis rates of the
Heart scans tied to “evidence-free” treatment: study [SEP] Cardiac magnetic resonance imaging perfusion // patients who have had a previous myocardial infarction or previous coronary artery bypass surgery, the images may be very difficult to interpret and in such cases, the analysis of the scans is performed with the complement of an other imaging modality (such as coronary angiography). It is a non-invasive test as is generally regarded as safe however, there are some patients for whom this is contraindicated and there are a number of potential complications: Any patient who has a contraindication to MRI scanning, especially those with pacemakers Patients with severe asthma, as Adenosine may provoke an attack Patients with severe
Of the top five cities for staged automobile accidents, three are in Florida. … We rank No. 1 in the country in staged auto accidents. [SEP] Staged crash // Staged crash According to the Coalition Against Insurance Fraud, staged car crashes are a growing criminal problem. Drivers maneuver unsuspecting motorists into crashes in order to make false insurance claims. The cars generally suffer little damage in relation to the large demand that is then fraudulently submitted. In 2011, a group of seven people in North and South Carolina were arrested for allegedly stealing over $100,000 through staged crash schemes. Florida is the only state that has specific legislation against faking a car crash in order to receive insurance money. Other states have passed or are eyeing diverse legislation targeting
Of the top five cities for staged automobile accidents, three are in Florida. … We rank No. 1 in the country in staged auto accidents. [SEP] Transportation in South Florida // "first in automotive fatalities, first in pedestrian strikes, first in the obscenity-laced tirades of their fellow drivers." Subsequently, Florida consistently ranks among the most expensive states for insurance premiums. In 2007, Miami was identified as having the rudest drivers in the United States, the second year in a row to have been cited, in a poll commissioned by automobile club AutoVantage. Miami is also consistently ranked as one of the most dangerous cities in the United States for pedestrians. Furthermore, greater Miami sees regular high speed police pursuits; the culture and geography of Miami and Miami Beach in the 1980s
Of the top five cities for staged automobile accidents, three are in Florida. … We rank No. 1 in the country in staged auto accidents. [SEP] Transportation in South Florida // 2011, all four of the most dangerous metropolitan areas or pedestrians in the United States were in Florida, with Miami-Fort Lauderdale coming in fourth, having a Pedestrian Danger Index five times greater than the New York City metropolitan area based on 2008–2012 data. Additionally, many motorists are acquitted or receive minor punishments for crimes such as DUI vehicular manslaughter and other reckless driving incidents. In 2009, the city commission approved the new Miami 21 zoning policy that was considered a landmark example of New Urbanism, winning then-Mayor Miami Diaz the 2009 American Architectural Foundation's Keystone Award for taking on Miami
Of the top five cities for staged automobile accidents, three are in Florida. … We rank No. 1 in the country in staged auto accidents. [SEP] Transportation in South Florida // consistently ranked as one of the most dangerous cities in the US for pedestrians due to rude drivers, very wide roads, and the number of hit and runs; Miami-Dade County was found to have the highest number of pedestrian strikes in a 2013 study. Often several cars will hit a pedestrian and drive away. Sometimes people are even killed while waiting in bus stops when cars run off the road and destroy them. In 2002, pedestrians in Tampa-Orlando and Miami-Fort Lauderdale were found to be three times more likely to die than pedestrians in Cincinnati, Cleveland, and Columbus, Ohio. In
Of the top five cities for staged automobile accidents, three are in Florida. … We rank No. 1 in the country in staged auto accidents. [SEP] Rickenbacker Causeway // CityLab, Miami, Florida is not known as a bicycle-friendly city: It’s listed as the fourth most dangerous city to bike in the U.S.; between 2010 and 2014, 47 people were killed cycling through the city. Florida is the state with most cyclist fatalities per capita in United States (the situation is just as bleak for pedestrians). Although bicycling is very popular on the Rickenbacker Causeway, no physical division between the cars and bikes exist. This lack of separation between bikes and cars, excessive speeds and driving under the influence has contributed to at least four fatalities since 2006. This has
Of the top five cities for staged automobile accidents, three are in Florida. … We rank No. 1 in the country in staged auto accidents. [SEP] Florida Keys // Myers, or Marco Island, Florida, the vast majority of tourists drive down from the mainland on U.S. 1. This influx of traffic, coupled with the two-lane nature of U.S. 1 through most of its length in the Keys, and the fact that no alternative road routes are available mean that Monroe County has the highest per capita rate of fatal automobile accidents in the state of Florida. The major industries are fishing and tourism, including ecotourism, with many visitors scuba diving in the area's protected waters. A ferry now takes riders between Key West and Fort Myers, as well as
Of the top five cities for staged automobile accidents, three are in Florida. … We rank No. 1 in the country in staged auto accidents. [SEP] Interstate 295 (Florida) // vehicles and 1 instance in which shooting and concrete-throwing were combined." At least one motorist, William Klinedinst, died after a concrete block landed on the hood of his moving car, causing it to crash; his body was not identified for several weeks. Another motorist, Debra Lewis, received a bullet wound to the face, and several other injuries occurred. The incidents spurred then-governor Lawton Chiles to dispatch the Florida National Guard to patrol the roadway and the American Automobile Association (AAA) to issue a rare travel warning for the interstate and direct its customers to avoid its use. A task force
Of the top five cities for staged automobile accidents, three are in Florida. … We rank No. 1 in the country in staged auto accidents. [SEP] Florida // and Texas. Motorists have the 45th lowest rate of car insurance in the U.S. 24% are uninsured. Drivers between 15 and 19 years of age averaged 364 car crashes a year per ten thousand licensed Florida drivers in 2010. Drivers 70 and older averaged 95 per 10,000 during the same time frame. A spokesperson for the non-profit Insurance Institute said that "Older drivers are more of a threat to themselves." Before the construction of routes under the Federal Aid Highway Act of 1956, Florida began construction of a long cross-state toll road, Florida's Turnpike. The first section, from Fort Pierce
Of the top five cities for staged automobile accidents, three are in Florida. … We rank No. 1 in the country in staged auto accidents. [SEP] Staged crash // efforts by gangs to bring in real and fake crash passengers to lodge phone crash-injury claims. At least 15 states and the District of Columbia have passed laws targeting runners of crash gangs or soliciting of real auto crash passengers. Staged crash According to the Coalition Against Insurance Fraud, staged car crashes are a growing criminal problem. Drivers maneuver unsuspecting motorists into crashes in order to make false insurance claims. The cars generally suffer little damage in relation to the large demand that is then fraudulently submitted. In 2011, a group of seven people in North and South Carolina were
Of the top five cities for staged automobile accidents, three are in Florida. … We rank No. 1 in the country in staged auto accidents. [SEP] Transportation in South Florida // According to a study by the American Highway Users Alliance (AHUA) in 2015, three of the nations worst bottlenecks are in Miami-Dade on the Dolphin and Palmetto Expressways. In the 2010s, increasing traffic delays were cited as an impediment to the rebounding office market. Similar to Los Angeles traffic, Miami-Dade has a loosely defined "rush hour" that extends much longer than just 8–9 a.m. and 5–6 p.m. Miami also consistently ranks at or near the top in terms of worst drivers and number of accidents. In a 2013 study that looked at insurance and accident reports, Miami-Dade County was ranked
Today’s marijuana is 300 percent to 800 percent more potent than the pot of yesteryear. [SEP] Urban legends about drugs // included as a possible cause of Lee's death. An oft-repeated legend is that today's cannabis is at least an order of magnitude stronger than in the past (and by implication much more dangerous). THC levels are allegedly 10, 20 or even 30 times higher than in the 1960s or 1970s. Although potency levels have risen in several countries (such as the US and UK), the actual increases have been much more modest (almost threefold from 1982 to 2007 in the US) and high-potency strains have always existed, as have various concentrated forms of cannabis. Furthermore, potency of seized samples was
Today’s marijuana is 300 percent to 800 percent more potent than the pot of yesteryear. [SEP] Cannabis (drug) // enforcement efforts that make outdoor cultivation more risky. It is often cited that the average levels of THC in cannabis sold in the United States rose dramatically between the 1970s and 2000, but such statements are likely skewed because undue weight is given to much more expensive and potent, but less prevalent samples. "Skunk" refers to several named strains of potent cannabis, grown through selective breeding and sometimes hydroponics. It is a cross-breed of "Cannabis sativa" and "C. indica" (although other strains of this mix exist in abundance). Skunk cannabis potency ranges usually from 6% to 15% and rarely as
Today’s marijuana is 300 percent to 800 percent more potent than the pot of yesteryear. [SEP] Cannabis (drug) // 2015, a record 44% of the US population has tried marijuana in their lifetime, an increase from 38% in 2013 and 33% in 1985. Marijuana use in the United States is three times above the global average, but in line with other Western democracies. 44% of American 12th graders have tried the drug at least once, and the typical age of first-use is 16, similar to the typical age of first-use for alcohol but lower than the first-use age for other illicit drugs. It is often claimed by growers and breeders of herbal cannabis that advances in breeding and cultivation
Today’s marijuana is 300 percent to 800 percent more potent than the pot of yesteryear. [SEP] Cannabis (drug) // states have decriminalized and even legalized marijuana. In 2015, almost half of the people in the United States had tried marijuana, 12% had used it in the past year, and 7.3% had used it in the past month. In 2014, daily marijuana use amongst US college students had reached its highest level since records began in 1980, rising from 3.5% in 2007 to 5.9% in 2014 and had surpassed daily cigarette use. In the US, men are over twice as likely to use marijuana as women and 18-29 year-olds are six times more likely to use as over 65-year-olds. In
Today’s marijuana is 300 percent to 800 percent more potent than the pot of yesteryear. [SEP] Urban legends about drugs // Although the 1960s are commonly perceived as a time of rampant marijuana use compared with the present day, in a 1969 Gallup poll only 4% of American adults had tried marijuana and 34% did not know its effects. In contrast, later Gallup polls show that the percentage of adults who had tried marijuana had risen to 33% by 1985 and 34% by 1999. The third most common illicit drug that is the source of urban legends is 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA), better known as "ecstasy." In the United States, this substance was banned in 1985, and other countries followed suit as well.
Today’s marijuana is 300 percent to 800 percent more potent than the pot of yesteryear. [SEP] Cannabis (drug) // revisions to cannabis scheduling in the UK, the government moved cannabis back from a class C to a class B drug. A purported reason was the appearance of high potency cannabis. They believe skunk accounts for between 70 and 80% of samples seized by police (despite the fact that skunk can sometimes be incorrectly mistaken for all types of herbal cannabis). Extracts such as hashish and hash oil typically contain more THC than high potency cannabis flowers. Marijuana or marihuana (herbal cannabis), consists of the dried flowers and subtending leaves and stems of the female "Cannabis" plant. This is the
Today’s marijuana is 300 percent to 800 percent more potent than the pot of yesteryear. [SEP] Cannabis (drug) // high as 20%. The average THC level in coffee shops in the Netherlands is about 18–19%. The price or street value of cannabis varies widely depending on geographic area and potency. In the United States, cannabis is overall the number four value crop, and is number one or two in many states including California, New York and Florida, averaging . Some believe it generates an estimated $36 billion market. Some have argued that this estimate is methodologically flawed, and makes unrealistic assumptions about the level of marijuana consumption. Other estimates claiming to correct for this flaw claim that the market
Today’s marijuana is 300 percent to 800 percent more potent than the pot of yesteryear. [SEP] Washington Initiative 1068 // Marijuana Patient Protection Act of 2008, versions of which have been discussed since 2001. In 1998, Washington voters passed Initiative 692, removing criminal penalties for medical patients with an approved condition. Ten years later, a "60-day" supply for patients was defined as 24 ounces and 15 plants. In early 2010, two bills relating to marijuana were defeated in committee by the Legislature (one proposed selling marijuana through liquor stores, the other sought decriminalize marijuana). Frustrated with the Legislature, Seattle activists filed I-1068 in January. On February 10, the Attorney General's office issued a ballot title and summary for the initiative.
Today’s marijuana is 300 percent to 800 percent more potent than the pot of yesteryear. [SEP] National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws // enforcement agencies seized 32% of domestic cannabis plants planted that year. According to the report, "Marijuana remains the fourth largest cash crop in America despite law enforcement spending an estimated $10 billion annually to pursue efforts to outlaw the plant." Recent studies show that marijuana is larger than all other cash crops combined. In 2002, the organization used ads containing New York City mayor Michael Bloomberg quotes on his past use of pot, saying "You bet I did. And I enjoyed it." The mayor said "I’m not thrilled they’re using my name. I suppose there’s that First Amendment that gets
Today’s marijuana is 300 percent to 800 percent more potent than the pot of yesteryear. [SEP] 2014 Oregon Ballot Measure 91 // use among adults. Effective July 1, 2015 (per Section 82(1)) the measure legalizes the possession and use of marijuana for adults 21-years of age or older. Adults can carry up to one ounce of marijuana, keep up to eight ounces at home per household, and grow up to four plants per household. Retail sales outlets will be licensed by the Oregon Liquor Control Commission, which must begin accepting applications on or before January 4, 2016. Early sales started October 1, 2015 through existing medical marijuana dispensaries. Sales topped $11 million in the first week that recreational marijuana was legally available
Pedestrian finds baby alive in bag along Indiana roadway. [SEP] Purvi Patel // a paper bag and placed it in a dumpster behind a Target store". "Because '[i]t was a warm night and based on the size of the umbilical cord[,]' Dr. McGuire 'thought that [they] could find a baby that was far enough along that could still be alive' and left the hospital to search for it". "Officers searched dumpsters in that area and finally found the plastic bag containing Patel's baby at 12:06 a.m." The prosecution alleged that the miscarriage had been caused by an abortifacient per her documented text messages exchanged with her friend, even though doctors found no trace
Pedestrian finds baby alive in bag along Indiana roadway. [SEP] Indiana ghostlore // the bridge. She survived, but the baby, falling from her arms, did not. Within a few weeks, the mother died of grief and a broken heart. The story concludes that if you drive under the bridge at night, you might very well hear her screaming for her baby. The haunted bridge in Avon is still a functional railroad crossing, servicing the CSX Railroad, and regularly visited by residents and guests to get spine-tingling adrenaline rush. One of the most well known, and most celebrated ghost legends in Indiana is that of Diana of the Dunes. The local legend claims that
Pedestrian finds baby alive in bag along Indiana roadway. [SEP] Indiana ghostlore // as some Avon residents aver, the ghosts on the Haunted Bridge belong to a young woman and her baby. The story goes that she was walking to the doctor's house late one night with her sick baby when she had the bad luck to get her foot caught among the railroad ties on the bridge. Then, disaster struck in the form of a huge locomotive barreling down on them. She struggled mightily, finally getting free of the railroad ties, but had no time to run across the bridge to escape the train. So, clutching her sick child, she jumped off
Pedestrian finds baby alive in bag along Indiana roadway. [SEP] Purvi Patel // baby in a plastic shopping bag containing bathroom trash and an airline boarding pass with Patel's name." On her way to a medical facility to get help for her uninterrupted bleeding, Patel "put the bag containing the baby into a dumpster". At St. Joseph Regional Medical Center in Mishawaka, Indiana "[b]ased on the size of the umbilical cord...[examining physicians] Ob/gyn Dr. Tracy Byrne and OB/GYN Dr. Kelly McGuire...determined that 'there had to have been a baby'". After questioning by both doctors, Patel "finally acknowledged that she had given birth to a baby and stated that she had put it in
Pedestrian finds baby alive in bag along Indiana roadway. [SEP] Murder of April Tinsley // girl believed to be Tinsley into his blue pickup truck. A jogger found Tinsley's body on April 4, 1988, in a ditch just west of Spencerville, Indiana. Near the site, investigators found one of Tinsley's shoes, and a sex toy in a shopping bag. A motorist later reported seeing a blue pickup truck near this site. Tinsley's autopsy report suggested she had been sexually assaulted and then strangled to death. The report determined that she had been dead for about one or two days before she was discovered, and that she had been placed in the ditch four hours before
Pedestrian finds baby alive in bag along Indiana roadway. [SEP] Crybaby Bridge // a woman and a baby died when their auto veered off a wooden bridge and fell into the steep creek. Annette Sawyer of Lufkin said visitors who come to the site at night claim they have heard sounds resembling a baby crying. One visitor supposedly found the imprint of a baby’s hand on her auto window after returning from the bridge. "Sarah Jane Bridge" on East Port Neches Avenue in Port Neches, Texas is said to be the bridge from which a baby of the same name was thrown into the alligator-infested water by a man who had murdered the
Pedestrian finds baby alive in bag along Indiana roadway. [SEP] Beth Doe // severed. To dispose of the body, the suitcases had been thrown off a bridge over the Lehigh River in White Haven, Pennsylvania along Interstate 80. They had fallen about 300 feet before hitting the ground. It is believed that the suitcases had been thrown out of a vehicle traveling west. The killer had most likely intended to have the suitcases land in the water below, to lessen the chance of their being found. Two of the suitcases had landed in the woods, 20 feet from the river; the third, containing the head and fetus, was found on the river bank.
Pedestrian finds baby alive in bag along Indiana roadway. [SEP] Deaths of Karlie Pearce-Stevenson and Khandalyce Pearce // a young child surrounded by girl's clothing were discovered by a passing motorist who examined an abandoned suitcase at the side of the Karoonda Highway near Wynarka in the Murray Mallee region of South Australia. From the beginning, investigators believed the child had suffered a violent death several years before the remains had been dumped in the suitcase. It was not until October 2015 that the victim was identified as Pearce, aged two, who, with her mother, had been reported missing from Alice Springs more than five years earlier, in 2009. Soon after the discovery of the child's remains, police
Pedestrian finds baby alive in bag along Indiana roadway. [SEP] Dead Women Crossing, Oklahoma // the morning Norton, James, and the baby left in a buggy, headed for Hydro. Eyewitnesses reported that buggy entered a field near Deer Creek, and Norton came out alone approximately 45 minutes later. Norton returned to Moore's house, and then back to Clinton. Later, Bartell discovered that two women and the baby were seen around Deer Creek. The detective also was able to find the baby. The witness testified that Norton left the baby with a boy, and asked him to take the baby home. The baby was unharmed, but her clothing was covered with blood. While locals searched for
Pedestrian finds baby alive in bag along Indiana roadway. [SEP] Kerry Babies case // had precipitated the death of her baby. Hayes has disputed this finding, and no charges were pressed. The parents and killer of the first baby have never been identified. On 14 April 1984, a newborn baby boy was found dead of 28 stab wounds on White Strand beach at Caherciveen, County Kerry. A woman, Joanne Hayes from Abbeydorney, approximately 80 kilometres away, was known to have been pregnant, was arrested and she and her family confessed to the murder of the baby. However, they later withdrew their confessions and admitted instead that Hayes' baby had been born on the family
Flashing night-lights may help lessen jet lag, circadian problems [SEP] Jet lag // people match their circadian rhythms with the expected cycle at their destination; it requires strict adherence to timing. Light therapy is a popular method used by professional athletes to reduce jet lag. Special glasses, usually battery-driven, provide light to the eyes, thus inhibiting the production of melatonin in the brain. Timed correctly, the light may contribute to an advance or delay of the circadian phase to that which will be needed at the destination. The glasses may be used on the plane or even before users leave their departure city. Timed melatonin administration may be effective in reducing jet lag
Flashing night-lights may help lessen jet lag, circadian problems [SEP] Jet lag // drink. It does not necessarily involve the shift in circadian rhythms that cause jet lag. Travel fatigue can occur without crossing time zones, and it often disappears after one day accompanied by a night of good quality sleep. Jet lag is a chronobiological problem, similar to issues often induced by shift work and the circadian rhythm sleep disorders. When travelling across a number of time zones, the body clock (circadian rhythm) will be out of synchronisation with the destination time, as it experiences daylight and darkness contrary to the rhythms to which it has grown accustomed. The body's natural pattern
Flashing night-lights may help lessen jet lag, circadian problems [SEP] Circadian rhythm // NTSB cites this as contributing to many accidents and has conducted several research studies in order to find methods of combating fatigue in pilots. Disruption to rhythms usually has a negative effect. Many travelers have experienced the condition known as jet lag, with its associated symptoms of fatigue, disorientation, and insomnia. A number of other disorders, for example bipolar disorder and some sleep disorders such as delayed sleep phase disorder (DSPD), are associated with irregular or pathological functioning of circadian rhythms. Disruption to rhythms in the longer term is believed to have significant adverse health consequences on peripheral organs outside
Flashing night-lights may help lessen jet lag, circadian problems [SEP] Jet lag // symptoms. The benefit of using melatonin is likely to be greater for eastward flights than for westward ones because for most people it is easier to delay than to advance the circadian rhythm. There remain issues regarding the appropriate timing of melatonin use in addition to the legality of the substance in certain countries. How effective it may actually be is also questionable. For athletes, anti-doping agencies may prohibit or limit its use. Timing of exercise and food consumption have also been suggested as remedies, though their applicability in humans and practicality for most travellers are not certain, and no
Flashing night-lights may help lessen jet lag, circadian problems [SEP] Sleep inversion // no longer exhibit symptoms. For people who travel often, it is preferable to adjust to the new time zone by sleeping at times appropriate to that zone if they intend to be there for one week or longer. Diets that target jet lag are also effective for some people, and light therapy, which involves exposure to a lighted device to simulate daytime, may be helpful to some people too. People with the shift work type of the disorder benefit most from a non-changing work schedule. If rotating or changing shifts are unavoidable, rotations that occur in a clockwise direction, where
Flashing night-lights may help lessen jet lag, circadian problems [SEP] Jet lag // causes more problems than travelling west because the body clock has to be advanced, which is more difficult for the majority of humans than delaying it. Most people have an endogenous circadian rhythm that is longer than 24 hours, so lengthening a day is less troublesome than shortening it. Equally important, the necessary exposure to light to realign the body clock does not tie in with the day/night cycle at the destination. Travelling east by six to nine time zones causes the biggest problems, as it is desirable to avoid light in the mornings. Waterhouse et al. recommend: Travelling by
Flashing night-lights may help lessen jet lag, circadian problems [SEP] Jet lag // a circadian rhythm that is out of sync with the day-night cycle of the destination, as well as the possibility of internal desynchronisation. Jet lag has been measured with simple analogue scales, but a study has shown that these are relatively blunt for assessing all the problems associated with jet lag. The Liverpool Jet Lag Questionnaire was developed to measure all the symptoms of jet lag at several times of day, and this dedicated measurement tool has been used to assess jet lag in athletes. Jet lag may require a change of three time zones or more to occur, though
Flashing night-lights may help lessen jet lag, circadian problems [SEP] Jet lag // research results on their success at adapting to jet lag are inconsistent. For time changes of fewer than three hours, jet lag is unlikely to be a concern, and if travel is for short periods (three days or fewer) retaining a "home schedule" may be better for most people. Sleeping on the plane is only advised if it is within the destination's normal sleep time. Jet lag may affect the mental health of vulnerable individuals. When travelling across time zones, there is a "phase-shift of body temperature, rapid-eye-movement sleep, melatonin production, and other circadian rhythms". A 2002 Israeli study found
Flashing night-lights may help lessen jet lag, circadian problems [SEP] Jet lag // SCN's role is to send signals to peripheral oscillators, which synchronise them for physiological functions. The SCN responds to light information sent from the retina. It is hypothesised that peripheral oscillators respond to internal signals such as hormones, food intake, and "nervous stimuli". The implication of independent internal clocks may explain some of the symptoms of jet lag. People who travel across several time zones can, within a few days, adapt their sleep-wake cycles with light from the environment. However, their skeletal muscles, liver, lungs, and other organs will adapt at different rates. This internal biological de-synchronisation is exacerbated as
Flashing night-lights may help lessen jet lag, circadian problems [SEP] Sleep // these are its main clues about what time it is. Exposure to even small amounts of light during the night can suppress melatonin secretion, and increase body temperature and wakefulness. Short pulses of light, at the right moment in the circadian cycle, can significantly 'reset' the internal clock. Blue light, in particular, exerts the strongest effect, leading to concerns that electronic media use before bed may interfere with sleep. Modern humans often find themselves desynchronized from their internal circadian clock, due to the requirements of work (especially night shifts), long-distance travel, and the influence of universal indoor lighting. Even if
Burundi kicks out top WHO official in country ahead of vote. [SEP] 2018 Burundian constitutional referendum // to pass legislation. In December 2017, Nkurunziza threatened people not to campaign against the proposed changes. The official campaign window opened two weeks before the referendum. Prior to the referendum, the BBC and Voice of America were banned from the country for six months. Radio France Internationale (RFI) received a "warning" about its coverage. On 11 May, at least 26 people were killed in Cibitoke Province, allegedly by militiamen from the Democratic Republic of the Congo. The Burundian opposition coalition, Conseil National pour le Respect de l'Accord d'Arusha pour la paix et la Réconciliation au Burundi et la Restauration de
Burundi kicks out top WHO official in country ahead of vote. [SEP] Burundian unrest (2015–present) // which is diplomatically protected. Opposition groups announced on 26 June that they would boycott the election. On 27 June, "a group of unidentified young people" set fire to a building in Ntega district where ballot boxes and voting booths were being kept, destroying some of them. There were also two grenade attacks in Bujumbura, but there were no injuries. Pie Ntavyohanyuma, the President of the National Assembly, fled to Belgium on 28 June 2015, citing the unrest and his opposition to Nkurunziza's third term bid. He said that when he told Nkurunziza that he should not run, "his answer was
Burundi kicks out top WHO official in country ahead of vote. [SEP] Burundi // commission to resolve any disputes that might arise during the peace negotiations. Refugee camps are now closing down and 450,000 refugees have returned. The economy of the country is shattered – Burundi has one of the lowest per capita gross incomes in the world. With the return of refugees, amongst others, property conflicts have started. Burundi now participates in African Union peacekeeping missions, including the mission to Somalia against Al-Shabaab militants. In April 2015 protests broke out after the ruling party announced President Pierre Nkurunziza would seek a third term in office. Protestors claimed Nkurunziza could not run for a
Burundi kicks out top WHO official in country ahead of vote. [SEP] 2010 Burundian presidential election // all parties to ensure a smooth and democratic election. In the FNL bastion of Kanyosha, only a handful of voters turned out to vote, compared to hundreds who voted in the local council elections a month before. The chair of an international observation mission, Lydie Nzengou, affirmed during the day that the turnout was much lower. Following the elections, Rwasa went into hiding due to speculation that the government wanted to arrest him on charges of planning a new insurgency. He was quoted as saying that "They're [the government] looking for me because I told the truth, because I said
Burundi kicks out top WHO official in country ahead of vote. [SEP] 2015 Burundian presidential election // of voters to be held "hostage" by a small "radical minority" who opposed holding the election on schedule. Although the opposition candidates pulled out of the race and called for a boycott, their names remained on ballot papers. The electoral commission announced on 24 July 2015 that Nkurunziza had won the election with 69.41% of the vote. Agathon Rwasa was placed second and credited with 18.99% despite calling for a boycott. The CNDD-FDD described Nkurunziza's re-election as a "stunning victory" and a "divine miracle". Nkurunziza was sworn in for his third term a few days early, on 20 August 2015.
Burundi kicks out top WHO official in country ahead of vote. [SEP] 2010 Burundian presidential election // Forces (FNL) were brought into the legal political sphere and were said to be the incumbent Pierre Nkurunziza's most viable opposition. However, as a result of a campaign of intimidation in the run up to the vote, as well as alleging fraud in earlier local elections, all the other candidates withdrew from the ballot leaving only Nkurunziza. On 1 June 2010, five opposition candidates, including Agathon Rwasa, who was considered the strongest contender, withdrew from the elections, alleging that the government intended to rig it. Following further similarities with Rwanda, ethnic tensions between Tutsi and Hutu were seen in the
Burundi kicks out top WHO official in country ahead of vote. [SEP] 2015 Burundian presidential election // the entire opposition, including key opposition candidate Agathon Rwasa, calling for a boycott, United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon called for another postponement on the same day, "in order to create a conducive environment for inclusive, peaceful and transparent elections", and he urged dialogue between the government and the opposition. Albert Shingiro, Burundi's Permanent Representative to the UN, rejected the notion of postponing the vote again. He argued that it was constitutionally necessary to hold the vote as planned and that to do otherwise would mean an "institutional vacuum", and he said that it would be unacceptable for the overwhelming majority
Burundi kicks out top WHO official in country ahead of vote. [SEP] Pierre Nkurunziza // had won the election with 69.41% of the vote with a low voter turnout, the participation rate was under 30%. Agathon Rwasa was placed second and credited with 18.99% despite calling for a boycott. Nkurunziza was sworn in for his third term on 20 August 2015. Speaking on the occasion, he described his re-election as "a victory of all Burundians". He vowed that if his enemies continued to pursue violence, they would be beaten with the aid of God and "scattered like flour thrown into the air". By December 2015 over 300 people had been killed, about 215,000 others had
Burundi kicks out top WHO official in country ahead of vote. [SEP] 2015 Burundian legislative election // ensure a 60-40 split between Hutus and Tutsis, and a 30% quota for female MPs. The Senate is elected by colleges of local councillors, with three Twa members appointed and more members co-opted to ensure a 50-50 split between Hutus and Tutsis and a 30% quota for female Senators. Sixteen lists of parties, coalitions and independents contested the elections. Seventeen opposition parties announced on 26 June that they would boycott both the parliamentary election and the subsequent presidential election. The African Union announced on 28 June that its election observers would not observe the parliamentary election scheduled for the next
Burundi kicks out top WHO official in country ahead of vote. [SEP] 2015 Burundian legislative election // and Anicet Niyongabo, a UPRONA Senator, was elected as Second Vice-President. 2015 Burundian legislative election Parliamentary elections were held in Burundi on 29 June 2015. The vote had been initially set for 5 June 2015, alongside local elections, but it was delayed due to unrest. Indirect elections to the Senate occurred on 24 July. In the previous legislative election in 2010, the ruling National Council for the Defense of Democracy – Forces for the Defense of Democracy won a large majority. The election was boycotted by most opposition parties following claims of fraud in the local elections held on 24
Cavs’ Love discloses bouts with panic attacks, mental health. [SEP] Kevin Love // revealed–in response to DeMar DeRozan's public discussion of his struggles with depression–that he had been seeing a therapist for several months following a panic attack during a game in November 2017. He wrote of "creating a better environment for talking about mental health" and the need to remember that "Everyone is going through something that we can't see." In August 2018, Love continued his advocacy for mental health awareness, discussing his family's history of depression, along with his own struggles with anxiety, rage, and "dark times" where he would hide in his room and not talk to anyone. Love says
Cavs’ Love discloses bouts with panic attacks, mental health. [SEP] Terry Bradshaw // after games. The problem worsened in the late 1990s after his third divorce, when he said he "could not bounce back" as he had after the previous divorces or after a bad game. In addition to anxiety attacks, his symptoms included weight loss, frequent crying, and sleeplessness. He was diagnosed with clinical depression. Since then he has taken Paxil regularly. He chose to speak out about his depression to overcome the stigma associated with it and to urge others to seek help. Bradshaw's anxieties about appearing in public, away from the controlled environment of a television studio, led to an
Cavs’ Love discloses bouts with panic attacks, mental health. [SEP] Mental health in association football // letter written by Speed as a teenager which hinted at his long-term depression. Clarke Carlisle stated that he contemplated suicide after becoming injured early in his career, and in December 2014 attempted suicide due to the severe depression he was suffering from. Sebastian Deisler was hospitalized after being unable to cope with the pressures of professional football, eventually retiring from the sport at the age of 27. Ex-player Mickey Bennett set up an organization called Unique Sports Counselling to help footballers deal with mental health issues. In February 2016 Steve Harper spoke out about his mental health problems while in
Cavs’ Love discloses bouts with panic attacks, mental health. [SEP] Kevin Love // highs with 28 points and 13 rebounds. Love helped the Cavaliers advance through to the Eastern Conference Finals where they faced the Toronto Raptors. He struggled in Games 3 and 4 of the series, scoring just 15 total points, before bouncing back in Games 5 and 6 to help the Cavaliers defeat the Raptors 4–2. The win advanced them through to the NBA Finals, where they faced the defending champion Golden State Warriors. Love's struggles in the NBA Finals were well documented. After recording 17 points and 13 rebounds in a Game 1 loss, a concussion suffered in Game 2
Cavs’ Love discloses bouts with panic attacks, mental health. [SEP] Chamique Holdsclaw // stress fracture in her right foot and was unable to compete. Today, Chamique works as a Mental Health Advocate. Holdsclaw wrote in her autobiography "Breaking Through: Beating the Odds Shot after Shot" (2012, ) that she had suffered depression during her professional basketball career, and attempted suicide on one occasion. Atlanta police issued an arrest warrant for Holdsclaw on November 15, 2012 after Holdsclaw allegedly attacked her ex-girlfriend's car with a baseball bat and shot at the car. The owner of the car, fellow WNBA player Jennifer Lacy, was uninjured. It was announced on February 27, 2013, that Holdsclaw was
Cavs’ Love discloses bouts with panic attacks, mental health. [SEP] Cleveland sports curse // late in the fourth quarter, a defensive play known among Cavs fans as The Block. Following would be a three-point shot by Kyrie Irving, to put the Cavaliers ahead for good at 92–89 with 53 seconds left in the fourth quarter. Following that, Cavaliers' forward Kevin Love was switched and forced to play one-on-one defense against Stephen Curry. Curry tried an array of dribbling moves but ultimately missed his 3-point attempt, with the typically slow-footed Love staying in front of and pestering the Warriors guard. This game is being called "The Comeback" and "The End" as this win ended Northeast
Cavs’ Love discloses bouts with panic attacks, mental health. [SEP] Virginia Cavaliers women's lacrosse // charged with second-degree murder. He was sentenced to prison in 2012 and is scheduled to be released in 2029. In September 2010, Love's family created the One Love Foundation, which aims to raise awareness about relationship violence. Reference: Reference: Reference: The Cavaliers have appeared in 31 NCAA tournaments. Their postseason record is 36-28. Virginia Cavaliers women's lacrosse The Virginia Cavaliers women's lacrosse team is a NCAA Division I college lacrosse team representing the University of Virginia as part of the Atlantic Coast Conference. They play their home games at Klöckner Stadium in Charlottesville, Virginia. In its over 40-year history, Virginia
Cavs’ Love discloses bouts with panic attacks, mental health. [SEP] Kevin Love // and 21 games with the injury, returning to action on March 19 against the Bucks. He scored 18 points in 25 minutes in a 124–117 win. Two days later, he recorded 23 points and 12 rebounds in a 132–129 win over the Toronto Raptors. He knocked down his 1,000th career 3-pointer during the game. On April 1, 2018, he recorded his 400th career double-double with 13 points and 13 rebounds in a 98–87 win over the Dallas Mavericks. In Game 2 of the Cavaliers' second-round playoff series against the Raptors, Love had his best game of the postseason with 31
Cavs’ Love discloses bouts with panic attacks, mental health. [SEP] Alex Owumi // with posttraumatic stress disorder, and continued to suffer from its effects in the years following. He has sometimes had anxiety attacks before games, struggled to sleep, and considered suicide. Owumi was offered a contract to play another season with El-Olympi. Worth twice the money as his first El-Olympi contract, it would have been the biggest of his career, and made him the highest-paid player to play in the Middle East. After initially accepting the deal, he later decided against it because he wanted to take a break from his basketball career. Instead, he began working at a community center in
Cavs’ Love discloses bouts with panic attacks, mental health. [SEP] Kevin Love // Thaddeus Young from the Philadelphia 76ers, while the Philadelphia 76ers received Luc Mbah a Moute and Alexey Shved from Minnesota and a 2015 first-round draft pick from Cleveland. On February 8, 2015, Love scored a season-high 32 points on 11-of-18 shooting in a 120–105 win over the Los Angeles Lakers. On February 24, he scored 24 points on eight three-pointers, tying his career best, as he helped the Cavaliers defeat the Detroit Pistons, 102–93. Love helped the Cavaliers win 34 of their final 43 games to finish the regular season as the No. 2 seed in the Eastern Conference with
Tests show King Tut died from malaria, study says. [SEP] Tutankhamun // syndrome) or Marfan syndrome, but an accumulation of malformations in Tutankhamun's family was evident. Several pathologies including Köhler disease II were diagnosed in Tutankhamun; none alone would have caused death. Genetic testing for STEVOR, AMA1, or MSP1 genes specific for "Plasmodium falciparum" revealed indications of malaria tropica in 4 mummies, including Tutankhamun's. However, their exact contribution to the causality of his death still is highly debated. As stated above, the team discovered DNA from several strains of a parasite proving he was infected with the most severe strain of malaria several times in his short life. Malaria can trigger circulatory
Tests show King Tut died from malaria, study says. [SEP] Tutankhamun // of Tutankhamun's mummy, scientists found DNA from the mosquito-borne parasites that cause malaria. This is currently the oldest known genetic proof of the disease. More than one strain of the malaria parasite was found, indicating that Tutankhamun contracted multiple malarial infections. According to "National Geographic", "The malaria would have weakened Tutankhamun's immune system and interfered with the healing of his foot. These factors, combined with the fracture in his left thighbone, which scientists had discovered in 2005, may have ultimately been what killed the young king." In 2008, a team began DNA research on Tutankhamun and the mummified remains of
Tests show King Tut died from malaria, study says. [SEP] Tutankhamun's mummy // murdered by one of his closest advisors, Ay. Ay did succeed Tutankhamun on the throne, so they used that as the motivation for the murder. Christian Timmann and Christian Meyer, medical doctors and scientists at the Bernhard Nocht Institute for Tropical Medicine in Hamburg, Germany, have used the most recent medical testing done on Tutankhamun's mummy by Dr. Hawass and have concluded that Tutankhamun did not die from a combination of bone disease and malaria, but instead had sickle-cell disease. Dr. Timmann and Dr. Meyer believed the sickle-cell disease turned fatal when Tutankhamun also contracted severe malaria that was rampant
Tests show King Tut died from malaria, study says. [SEP] Zahi Hawass // December 2000, a joint team from Waseda University in Japan and Cairo's Ain Shams University tried to get permission for DNA testing of Egyptian mummies, but was denied by the Egyptian Government. Hawass stated at the time that DNA analysis was out of the question because it would not lead to anything. In February 2010, Hawass and his team announced that they had analyzed the mummies of Tutankhamun and ten other mummies and said that the king could have died from a malaria infection that followed a leg fracture. German researchers Christian Timmann and Christian Meyer have cast doubt on
Tests show King Tut died from malaria, study says. [SEP] Tutankhamun's mummy // believed to have contained the body of Ahkenhaten and in KV35, a young lady mummy was discovered and believed to be either Kiya or Nefertiti. It was discovered that Tutankhamun's family had a large number of irregularities. Four of the mummies, including Tutankhamun, were shown to have had malaria tropica. Based on all the data, the study concluded the most likely cause of death for the young king was the combination of avascular necrosis and malaria. The fact that a cane and Ancient Egyptian-style medicines were found in the tomb backed up Hawass's claim that Tutankhamun suffered from a walking
Tests show King Tut died from malaria, study says. [SEP] Curse of the pharaohs // that six weeks before Carnarvon's death, he had watched the Earl laughing and joking as he entered the King's tomb and said to a nearby reporter (H. V. Morton), "I give him six weeks to live." The first autopsy carried out on the body of Tutankhamun by Dr Derry found a healed lesion on the left cheek, but as Carnarvon had been buried six months previously it was not possible to determine if the location of the wound on the King corresponded with the fatal mosquito bite on Carnarvon. A study of documents and scholarly sources led The Lancet to
Tests show King Tut died from malaria, study says. [SEP] Tutankhamun // in his system, leading to the belief that malaria and Köhler disease II combined led to his death. In June 2010, German scientists said they believed there was evidence that he had died of sickle cell disease. Other experts, however, rejected the hypothesis of homozygous sickle cell disease based on survival beyond the age of 5 and the location of the osteonecrosis, which is characteristic of Freiberg-Kohler syndrome rather than sickle-cell disease. Research conducted in 2005 by archaeologists, radiologists, and geneticists, who performed CT scans on the mummy, found that he was not killed by a blow to the head,
Tests show King Tut died from malaria, study says. [SEP] Mongkut // because of their negligence of his detailed prediction and their inattention to measurement and calculation by modern instruments." During the expedition, King Mongkut and Prince Chulalongkorn were infected with malaria. The king died six weeks later in the capital, and was succeeded by his son, who survived malaria. It has been argued that the assimilation of Western geography and astronomy into 19th-century Siam "proved that Siam equalled the West in terms of knowledge, and therefore the imperialists' claim that Siam was uncivilized and had to be colonized was unreasonable." This suggests that the Western form of these sciences may have
Tests show King Tut died from malaria, study says. [SEP] Kinga Choszcz // had contracted cerebral malaria and was lying unconscious in a military hospital in Accra, Ghana. Kinga died five days later on June 9, 2006, aged 33. Her death evoked many comments and discussions within the hitch-hiking and travelers communities. In 2007 Kinga's friends and family decided to honor her memory by creating a foundation that would support and help educate more kids in that part of Ghana where Kinga finished her earthly journey. That's how Freespirit Foundation came to live. Kinga was a keen photographer and an active blogger. She was a vegetarian for about 12 years and a vegan
Tests show King Tut died from malaria, study says. [SEP] Ankhesenamun // two conditions, malaria and leiomyomata, combined, led to his death. DNA testing announced in February 2010 has speculated that her mummy is one of two 18th Dynasty queens recovered from KV21 in the Valley of the Kings. The two fetuses found buried with Tutankhamun have been proven to be his children, and the current theory is Ankhesenamun is their mother. Not enough DNA was able to be retrieved from the mummies in KV21 to make positive identities of the queens. Enough DNA was pulled to show that the mummy known as KV21a fits as the mother of the two fetuses
NH to apply for Medicaid waiver on mental health treatment. [SEP] Mental health reform in North Carolina // Mental health reform in North Carolina The state of North Carolina is undertaking a comprehensive policy shift on how the government budgets for and manages resources for mental health, developmental disability, and substance abuse services. The 1915 (b)(c) Medicaid Waiver Program was chosen by the North Carolina Department of Health & Human Services, Division of Medical Assistance as a way to control and more accurately budget for the rising costs of Medicaid funded services. The 1915 (b)(c) Waiver Program was initially implemented at one pilot site in 2005 and evaluated for several years. Two expansion sites were then added in
NH to apply for Medicaid waiver on mental health treatment. [SEP] Mental health reform in North Carolina // although it may delegate the day-to-day operation of the program to another entity. In response to its increasingly difficult budget situation, North Carolina is currently undertaking a statewide policy shift in how it budgets and manages funding for Medicaid programs specific to mental health, developmental disabilities, and substance abuse disorders. North Carolina was originally approved to use both the Section 1915 (b) Managed Care/Freedom of Choice Waiver and the Section 1915 (c) Home and Community-based Services Waiver options in October 2004. The 1915 (b)(c) Waiver Program empowers the state designated public authority "to build partnerships with consumers, providers and community
NH to apply for Medicaid waiver on mental health treatment. [SEP] Mental health reform in North Carolina // in need of mental health, developmental disability, and substance abuse services. The Social Security Act has been amended many times since its adoption to assist states in managing their Medicaid programs to best meet the needs of the state's eligible residents. One way the Social Security Act does this is by authorizing "multiple waiver and demonstration authorities to allow states flexibility in operating Medicaid programs." Each state's Medicaid Agency must submit for review and approval an application for a Home and Community Based Services (HCBS) waiver, and the State Medicaid Agency has the ultimate responsibility for an HCBS waiver program
NH to apply for Medicaid waiver on mental health treatment. [SEP] Mental health reform in North Carolina // stakeholders to create a more responsive system of community care." The vision of this policy is "Responsible Change to Achieve Easy Access, Better Quality and Personal Outcomes." The appeal of the 1915 (b)(c) Waiver Program is that annual Medicaid expenditures can be more accurately budgeted and managed based on a formula. Under the Waiver, the State would determine a per member per month amount (known as capitation) to be paid to the public authority designated by the NC Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS) Division of Medical Assistance (DMA), the State's Medicaid Agency. The capitation would be based on
NH to apply for Medicaid waiver on mental health treatment. [SEP] Mental health reform in North Carolina // cost than fee-for-service program costs for Medicaid eligible population." Specifically, in its December 2011 report, NC DHHS shared that "there is a substantial difference in the average expenditure for care beginning in 2008, with expenditures remaining relatively stable at PBH [Piedmont Behavioral Health, the pilot site for the waiver program], while expenditures soared across the rest of the state." Response to the policy change has not been all positive, though. Vicki Smith, Executive Director of Disability Rights NC, stated that there is a "great deal of pressure on DHHS to quickly convert LMEs to Medicaid Waivers so the General Assembly's
NH to apply for Medicaid waiver on mental health treatment. [SEP] Mental health reform in North Carolina // a formula that takes into account the historical service costs associated with the different Medicaid eligible groups. In addition to the development of the capitation rate, the 1915 (b)(c) Waiver Program grants rate setting authority to adjust service rates to meet local needs, claims payment to ensure funds are spent in line with service authorizations, a closed network to allow for competition and choice within a stable network, utilization management to provide the right service at the right level, and care management to provide direct support to high cost/high risk customers. The state of North Carolina formulated the 1915 (b)(c)
NH to apply for Medicaid waiver on mental health treatment. [SEP] Mental health reform in North Carolina // North Carolina established the following minimum requirements to participate in the Waiver Program: The state enlisted the assistance of a consultant group, Mercer Government Human Services Consulting, to assist in creating and evaluating an LME's ability to meet the minimum standards. It should be noted that if an LME cannot meet the minimum standards established, they will be required to merge with another LME. The process began with 23 LMEs across the state, it is anticipated that by the end of the implementation process there will only be 8–10 LMEs left. The State's Strategic Plan for the 1915 (b)(c) Waiver
NH to apply for Medicaid waiver on mental health treatment. [SEP] Jan Brewer // 204 in 2000. After much debate, the Governor's Medicaid Restoration plan was enacted, taking Federal money through the ACA to expand Medicaid. To serve individuals who have a serious mental illness (SMI), but do not qualify for Medicaid, $39 million was added to the budget for additional services. Arizona ranks fifth nationally in spending on community-based programs and has the fewest residents per capita living in a state psychiatric hospital. Arizona's behavioral health system for Maricopa County individuals with SMI has been overseen by the "Arnold" v. "Sarn" lawsuit for more than thirty years. Brewer and the plaintiffs reached an
NH to apply for Medicaid waiver on mental health treatment. [SEP] Mental health reform in North Carolina // will include: Mecklenburg Area Mental Health, CenterPoint Human Services, Durham Center, EastPointe, Pathways, and CoastalCare LMEs. Any unassigned LMEs will be assigned at that point in time. Mental health reform in North Carolina The state of North Carolina is undertaking a comprehensive policy shift on how the government budgets for and manages resources for mental health, developmental disability, and substance abuse services. The 1915 (b)(c) Medicaid Waiver Program was chosen by the North Carolina Department of Health & Human Services, Division of Medical Assistance as a way to control and more accurately budget for the rising costs of Medicaid funded
NH to apply for Medicaid waiver on mental health treatment. [SEP] Mental health reform in North Carolina // not adequately managed and continued to grow at a high rate each year. Starting in 2005, the state established one LME as a pilot Medicaid managed care vendor through the use of the Medicaid 1915 (b)(c) Waiver Program. Piedmont Behavioral Health (PBH) served as the pilot program and serves Cabarrus, Davidson, Rowan, Stanly, and Union counties. In 2008, the General Assembly supported the planned expansion of the pilot program through S.L. 2008-107. Then S.L. 2010-31 was adopted and required the designation of two additional expansion sites. Most recently, S.L. 2011-264 instructed the North Carolina Department of Health and Human Services
Colorado pot campaigner seeks 'sanctuary' status for mountain town. [SEP] Dave Williams (Colorado politician) // their family has roots going back to Mexico and Southern California. During the first year of his first term (2017), Williams introduced a bill (HB17-1134) titled the "Colorado Politician Accountability Act". The bill was designed to crack down on sanctuary cities by allowing public officials of sanctuary cities who had not sought to overturn the local sanctuary law to be sued by citizens if an illegal alien committed a crime, and also by making elected officials of sanctuary jurisdictions liable to penalties for "rendering assistance to an illegal alien". The bill was defeated in the House but Williams and two
Colorado pot campaigner seeks 'sanctuary' status for mountain town. [SEP] Sal Pace // Pueblo repeal effort say retail marijuana shops and farms have brought increased vagrancy, crime, and an undesirable reputation as the pot capital of southern Colorado...County Commissioner Sal Pace, the chief opponent of the ballot effort, likes that his community is seen as a center for marijuana innovation." Ultimately, prop 200 was defeated by a 57-43 margin. Pace ran for Colorado's 46th House District. He won the nomination at the Pueblo County Assembly, keeping his only opponent off the ballot, while receiving greater than 70% of the delegate vote. Pace faced no opposition in the August Democratic primary, or the November
Colorado pot campaigner seeks 'sanctuary' status for mountain town. [SEP] Kayvan Khalatbari // Silver State Relief was the first medical marijuana dispensary in the state of Nevada to open when it launched on July 31, 2015 in Sparks, Nevada. Silver State worked with Khalatbari as a consultant during the development phases, and earned the highest score from the state licensure board. On Valentine’s Day 2017, Kayvan Khalatbari officially announced his candidacy for the 2019 Denver Mayoral election. Khalatbari will run on a platform aimed at improving conditions for the homeless, increasing police accountability, halting the I-70 expansion, developing DIY artist spaces, establishing Denver as a sanctuary city, and encouraging increased civic engagement by
Colorado pot campaigner seeks 'sanctuary' status for mountain town. [SEP] Richard Lamm // its hosting. Innsbruck, Austria replaced Denver as the host. Lamm's successful effort made him known statewide. Lamm ran for Governor of Colorado in 1974 on a platform to limit growth, and was elected. Reacting to the high cost of campaigning, he had walked the state in his campaign. One of his acts as governor was designating musician John Denver as the Poet Laureate of Colorado. As candidate and then governor, Lamm promised for environmental reasons to "drive a silver stake" through plans to build Interstate 470, a proposed circumferential highway around the southwest part of the Denver Metropolitan Area. However,
Colorado pot campaigner seeks 'sanctuary' status for mountain town. [SEP] Colorado State Highway 82 // Roaring Fork to the east of the town. At the end of the decade, the Independence Pass Foundation (IPF) was formally incorporated in Aspen. Its founder, environmental activist Bob Lewis, had been organizing efforts to revegetate the slopes alongside Highway 82 going up to the pass, in order to repair damage that had been done the road's construction. In cooperation with the Highway Department, the U.S. Forest Service and the county, the IPF rebuilt a curve along the road near the Weller Lake trailhead that year. Safety improvements continued in the 1990s. A five-mile (8 km) stretch just west of
Colorado pot campaigner seeks 'sanctuary' status for mountain town. [SEP] Breckenridge, Colorado // Hill Road. In the 50-plus years since, Breckenridge Ski Resort gradually expanded onto Peak 9 and Peak 10 on the south end of town, and Peak 7 and Peak 6 to the northwest of town. On November 3, 2009, voters passed ballot measure 2F by a nearly 3 to 1 margin (73%), which legalized marijuana possession for adults. The measure allows possession of up to an ounce of marijuana and also decriminalizes the possession of marijuana-related paraphernalia. Possession became legal January 1, 2010. Possession was still illegal by state law, however, until the passage of Colorado Amendment 64 in 2012.
Colorado pot campaigner seeks 'sanctuary' status for mountain town. [SEP] Kaplan Kirsch & Rockwell // regarding cleanup requirements and other environmental terms and conditions associated with the transfer to PuebloPlex of approximately 16,000 acres of property within the former U.S. Army Pueblo Chemical Depot in Pueblo, Colorado. In 2017, the city and county of Denver announced it would begin a 100-year contract with the National Western Center, and the firm was involved as council in developing and negotiating the governance structure and framework agreement for expanding and redeveloping the site. The firm represented Walking Mountains Science Center in its conveyance of a conservation easement to the Eagle Valley Land Trust in Edwards, Colorado, funded in
Colorado pot campaigner seeks 'sanctuary' status for mountain town. [SEP] Mountain Justice (organization) // mining practice. Residents of Coal River Valley and their allies delivered a letter to West Virginia Governor Joe Manchin, urging him to declare a state of emergency and rescind permits for the Bee Tree mountaintop removal mine on Coal River. The letter was signed by thirteen residents and accompanied by nine personal statements, a cross-section image of the neighboring Brushy Fork sludge impoundment and underground mines below, and an aerial image of the impoundment. Seven people sat in Manchin's antechamber and refused to leave at the office's closing time; the seven were arrested with misdemeanors for trespassing and obstruction. Four
Colorado pot campaigner seeks 'sanctuary' status for mountain town. [SEP] Aspen, Colorado // President Clinton to restrict US immigration. Aspen residents cited concerns about the environmental impacts of increased immigration on their community, including urban and suburban sprawl, pollution from the older automobiles typically driven by immigrants, and litter accumulating in the mountains attributable to the increasing population. The impetus for the resolution was the increasing number of trailer parks that housed the migrant workers employed locally in the service sector and ski industry. The parks were perceived to be degrading to the town's image, property values, and environment. The move was led by Terry Paulson, an Aspen City Council member, and supported
Colorado pot campaigner seeks 'sanctuary' status for mountain town. [SEP] Hildale, Utah // v. Colorado City, Town of et al" ruled that the towns of Colorado City and Hildale had discriminated against Ronald and Jinjer Cooke because they were not members of the FLDS Church. The Cookes were awarded $5.2 million for "religious discrimination". The Cooke family moved to the Short Creek area in 2008 but were refused access to utilities by the towns of Colorado City and Hildale. As a result of the ruling, Arizona's Attorney General Tom Horne issued a press release stating that he "wants to eradicate discrimination in two polygamous towns" and believes that the court ruling will give
Steve Scalise Says Ady Barkan asked Joe Biden, “Do we agree that we can redirect some of the funding for police?” [SEP] Steve Scalise // installing new locks, lights, metal detectors and panic buttons. A separate spending bill would be required to provide money for the grant program. Scalise supported President Donald Trump's 2017 executive order temporarily banning on citizens of seven Muslim-majority countries from entering the U.S. He stated that "It's very prudent to say, 'Let's be careful about who comes into our country to make sure that they're not terrorists.'" Scalise does not believe that federal funding should support organizations that offer abortions unless the pregnancy threatens a mother's life. Scalise has a "D" rating from NORML for his voting history regarding cannabis-related
Steve Scalise Says Ady Barkan asked Joe Biden, “Do we agree that we can redirect some of the funding for police?” [SEP] Trent Kelly // Subcommittee on Investigations, Oversight, and Regulations. On June 14, 2017, in Alexandria, Virginia, Republican member of Congress and House Majority Whip Steve Scalise of Louisiana was shot while practicing for the annual Congressional Baseball Game for Charity, scheduled for the following day. Also shot were David Bailey and Crystal Griner, a Capitol Police officer assigned to protect Scalise; Zack Barth, a congressional aide; and Matt Mika, a Tyson Foods lobbyist. A ten-minute shootout ensued between the shooter—James Hodgkinson of Belleville, Illinois, a left-wing activist—and officers from the Capitol and Alexandria Police. Media reports state Hodgkinson began firing from the fence
Steve Scalise Says Ady Barkan asked Joe Biden, “Do we agree that we can redirect some of the funding for police?” [SEP] 2017 Congressional baseball shooting // the trophy to the Republicans until Scalise finished his recovery. 2017 Congressional baseball shooting On June 14, 2017, in Alexandria, Virginia, Republican member of Congress and House Majority Whip Steve Scalise of Louisiana was shot while practicing for the annual Congressional Baseball Game for Charity, scheduled for the following day. Also shot were Crystal Griner, a U.S. Capitol Police officer assigned to protect Scalise; Zack Barth, a congressional aide; and Matt Mika, a Tyson Foods lobbyist. A ten-minute shootout ensued between the shooter—James Hodgkinson of Belleville, Illinois, a left-wing activist—and officers from the Capitol and Alexandria Police. Officers shot Hodgkinson,
Steve Scalise Says Ady Barkan asked Joe Biden, “Do we agree that we can redirect some of the funding for police?” [SEP] Chuck Schumer // funds to protect New York City mass transit. Schumer has been a leader in the fight to continue fully funding the FIRE Grant program administered by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). The program allows fire departments and first responders nationwide to apply for grant funding for major purchases that localities have difficulty providing, namely apparatus and emergency vehicles. When the Bush administration pushed a plan to reduce the program from $1 billion to just under $300 million, Schumer helped lead an effort with local firefighters to block the cuts. In 2006, Schumer led a bipartisan effort, with the help
Steve Scalise Says Ady Barkan asked Joe Biden, “Do we agree that we can redirect some of the funding for police?” [SEP] Kevin Beary // Association. He serves on the D.A.R.E. America Operations Advisory Committee and is past chairman of the National Police Board of G.R.E.A.T. (Gang Resistance Education and Training). Beary was selected by the American Society for Industrial Security as a member of the Society's International Standing Council on Global Terrorism. After Beary's election in 1992, Marianne Scholer, a former top-ranking woman in the Orange County Sheriff's Office was demoted and reclassified from major to lieutenant. She accused Sheriff Kevin Beary of sexual discrimination and filed a lawsuit which was settled in 1995 against a payment of $76,250. In 2004 and 2005, Beary
Steve Scalise Says Ady Barkan asked Joe Biden, “Do we agree that we can redirect some of the funding for police?” [SEP] Joe Biden 2008 presidential campaign // a meeting with prominent members of Congress and the solution they came up with was the raise the cap level, he stated that now the same solution would apply and that unity between the two parties was also necessary, "It was Joe Biden, Pat Moynihan, Bob Dole ... [and] George Mitchell when we made that deal [to reform social security]. I'll never forget Bob Dole turning to Pat Moynihan and saying, 'we all got to jump in this boat at the same time.' So the bottom line here is, you can't do it by growing the economy alone. So I
Steve Scalise Says Ady Barkan asked Joe Biden, “Do we agree that we can redirect some of the funding for police?” [SEP] 2011 Phoenix mayoral election // of the event. In reaction to the snub, Democratic candidate Greg Stanton said that if a Democratic-sponsored mayoral forum was held, he would not attend if Republicans were excluded. Cash on hand As of 12/31/10 Stanton vs. Gullett vs. Mattox vs. Neely, Motorola Group 01/24/11-01/28/11 Candidates Thane Eichenauer, Wes Gullett, Claude Mattox and Greg Stanton attended the first debate of the campaign. Issues covered included public safety, economic development, education, and the issues of the LGBT community. They addressed the status of Public Safety Manager Jack Harris-who was suspended from overseeing the Phoenix Police Department- and the city's subsidy deal
Steve Scalise Says Ady Barkan asked Joe Biden, “Do we agree that we can redirect some of the funding for police?” [SEP] 2017 Congressional baseball shooting // as scheduled the next day. The annual game has usually attracted a crowd of about 10,000 people, but this year, more than 20,000 tickets were sold, bringing in more than $1 million for charity. David Bailey, one of the two Capitol Police officers injured in the shootout, threw out the first pitch. Relying on crutches because of his injury, he received a standing ovation from the crowd of 24,959 in Nationals Park. Many players of both parties wore Louisiana State University hats with their uniforms as a tribute to Scalise. The Democratic team defeated the Republican team 11–2, but loaned
Steve Scalise Says Ady Barkan asked Joe Biden, “Do we agree that we can redirect some of the funding for police?” [SEP] Louise Haigh // concerned that forcing police to find more to pay for police pensions out of their general budget leaves less money for the police to protect the public. Haig stated, “Forcing the police at the last minute to bear the huge cost of pension changes demonstrates the utter failure of ministers to grasp the crisis in policing caused by their cuts. They have played fast and loose with public safety and the police are right to step up and take action.” (Police chiefs are suing the government over changes to pension funding) Haig also feels it is wrong that the police
Steve Scalise Says Ady Barkan asked Joe Biden, “Do we agree that we can redirect some of the funding for police?” [SEP] 2017 Congressional baseball shooting // whether Republicans or Democrats were practicing on the field. Duncan reportedly replied that it was the Republican team. DeSantis later told reporters that both he and Duncan believe that the man was the perpetrator of the shooting, James Hodgkinson. Three Capitol Police officers were present at the practice to protect Scalise, who, due to his House leadership position, has a full-time security detail assigned to protect him. They were posted behind the first-base dugout on that day. The practice had been underway for about half an hour when James Hodgkinson began firing. According to the Capitol Police, he was armed
Geron shares fall after cancer drug study update. [SEP] Human embryonic stem cells clinical trials // the current environment of capital scarcity and uncertain economic conditions, we intend to focus our resources on advancing our two novel and promising oncology drug candidates." The company's stocks fell dramatically to $1.50 per share from $2.28 per share when news of the trial's discontinuation became public. A spokesperson for the company said that Geron would save money by ending the trial despite the loss in investors. Because many believed Geron's trial offered hope for advancing knowledge related to stem cells and their potential uses, there was disappointment in the scientific community when the trial was cut short. An article
Geron shares fall after cancer drug study update. [SEP] Human embryonic stem cells clinical trials // will continue to monitor participants for fifteen years. Although no official results from the trial have been published, preliminary results from the clinical trial were presented at the American Congress of Rehabilitation Medicine (ACRM) conference in October 2011. None of the participants experienced serious adverse events, although nausea and low magnesium were reported. In addition, no changes to the spinal cord or neurological condition were found. After investing millions of dollars in the research leading up to this trial, Geron Corporation discontinued the study in November 2011 to focus on cancer research. John Scarlett, Geron's chief executive officer, said "In
Geron shares fall after cancer drug study update. [SEP] Kalos Therapeutics // effects associated with chemotherapeutic or small molecule compounds. KT-220, the current lead drug candidate, demonstrates remarkably broad anti-cancer activity. KT-220 has inhibited the growth of pancreatic, lung, prostate, breast, ovarian, colon, and melanoma cells in culture and of pancreatic, breast, and lung cancer tumors in models of human cancer. George Colberg - Chairman & CEO James Merritt, M.D. - President and Chief Medical Officer Gregory F. Witchel, MBA - Executive Vice President Daniel Von Hoff, MD, FACP - Chairman, Scientific Advisory Board David L. Vesely, MD, PhD - Scientific Advisory Board Marc B. Garnick, MD - Scientific Advisory Board Patrice
Geron shares fall after cancer drug study update. [SEP] Geron Corporation // Greider, and Leonard Hayflick, known for discovering that human cells divide for a limited number of times "in vitro" (called the Hayflick limit). In 2017, Geron staff received the highest median pay in California, at $500,250. Geron Corporation has sponsored human clinical trials of several anti-cancer products. In 2014 Geron exclusively licensed imetelstat to Janssen Biotech. This partnership was ended by Janssen on Sep 28th, 2018. In addition to testing drug candidates that exploit cancer cell's dependence on telomerase, Geron is researching the possible applications of activating the enzyme in normal cells to delay cellular senescence. The company is in
Geron shares fall after cancer drug study update. [SEP] Geron Corporation // the early stages of developing a telomerase based treatment for HIV called TAT0002, which is the saponin cycloastragenol in Chinese herb Astragalus propinquus. Geron has granted a license to Telomerase Activation Sciences to sell TA-65, the telomerase activator agent also derived from astragalus. In October 2010 Intertek/AAC Labs, an ISO 17025 internationally recognized lab, found the largest component of TA-65 to be Cycloastragenol. Geron originally investigated telomerase as a means of understanding and modifying human aging. However, Geron has ceased aging research of any kind. On January 23, 2009, Geron received FDA approval to begin Phase I testing of GRNOPC1
Geron shares fall after cancer drug study update. [SEP] Breast cancer // this possible risk. In breast cancer survivors, it is recommended to first consider non-hormonal options for menopausal effects, such as bisphosphonates or selective estrogen receptor modulators (SERMs) for osteoporosis, and vaginal estrogen for local symptoms. Observational studies of systemic hormone replacement therapy after breast cancer are generally reassuring. If hormone replacement is necessary after breast cancer, estrogen-only therapy or estrogen therapy with an intrauterine device with progestogen may be safer options than combined systemic therapy. Treatments are being evaluated in trials. This includes individual drugs, combinations of drugs, and surgical and radiation techniques Investigations include new types of targeted therapy,
Geron shares fall after cancer drug study update. [SEP] Geriatric oncology // the most rapidly growing group. This is compounded by the fact that the majority of cancer patients will be in this age group. Age in itself is one of the most important risk factors for developing cancer. Currently, 60% of newly diagnosed malignant tumors and 70% of cancer deaths occur in people aged 65 years or older. Many cancers are linked to aging; these include breast, colorectal, prostate, pancreatic, lung, bladder and stomach cancers. Because most non-pediatric cancer patients are older, there is a saying that all oncologists who are not pediatric oncologists are geriatric oncologists. For many reasons, older
Geron shares fall after cancer drug study update. [SEP] Geron Corporation // Geron Corporation Geron Corporation is a biotechnology company located in Menlo Park, California, which specializes in developing and commercializing therapeutic products for cancer that inhibit telomerase. Geron, based in Menlo Park, California, was founded by Mary C. West and Michael D. West, now CEO of BioTime. They secured initial venture capital investments in the company from Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers and Venrock. The company was incorporated in 1990 and began doing business in 1992. John A. Scarlett was appointed CEO in 2011. The company's Scientific and Clinical Advisory Board has included Nobel laureates James Watson, Gunter Blobel, and Carol
Geron shares fall after cancer drug study update. [SEP] Michael D. West // ACT later changed its name to Ocata Therapeutics, and was acquired by Japanese pharmaceutical company Astellas Pharma for US$379M or $8.50 per share in February 2016. Prior that, West was founder, director, and Chief Scientific officer of Geron, for which he secured venture capital investment from Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, Venrock and Domain Associates. At Geron, West initiated and managed programs in telomere biology relating to aging, cancer and human embryonic stem cell technology. West organized the first collaborative effort to isolate human pluripotent (embryonic) stem cells for the purpose of manufacturing products in regenerative medicine in collaboration with
Geron shares fall after cancer drug study update. [SEP] Geron Corporation // six to 10 cells in a few months. In Oct 2011 updated results on 4 patients were released. The trial was discontinued in Nov 2011. In early 2013 BioTime, whose CEO is Geron founder Michael D. West, acquired 400 patents and other intellectual property related to embryonic stem cells from Geron and later went on to restart the trial. Geron Corporation initially held exclusive rights to three cell types derived from embryonic stem cells, as the result of paying for the research originally conducted by Dr. James Thomson at the University of Wisconsin–Madison. The patents on the other three cell
Taiwan's carrot-and-stick approach to virus fight wins praise, but strains showing. [SEP] Carrot yellow-leaf virus // or eliminate the viral infection have not been developed. The only method available is the prevention of the virus by removal of the infected carrots which express some symptoms (yellow leaves, for example), in order to avoid the contamination of healthy carrots in the patch. Moreover, another prevention method corresponds to the use of inseticides, such as imidacloprid ('Confidor') and a mixture of lambda-cyhalothrin and pirimicarb ('Okapi'), which have been effective to control the vector of the virus and, consequently, to prevent the infection of the carrots. CYLV is transmitted by aphids, also known as plant lice. The family of
Taiwan's carrot-and-stick approach to virus fight wins praise, but strains showing. [SEP] Carrot yellow-leaf virus // also essential for viral movement because tail formation is only possible when Hsp70h is present. Cell movement is a process with three different stages: Egress to neighbour cells and to cell matrix happens in a similar manner. Carrot yellow-leaf virus The carrot yellow-leaf virus (CYLV) infects carrots, particularly the carrot root cells. There are viruses that are similar to CYLV which affect hogweed and beet roots as well. There have been sporadic plagues of CYLV occurring in many countries across the world, most notably the United Kingdom, Germany, and Japan. Aphids are the main form of transmission. These insects spread
Taiwan's carrot-and-stick approach to virus fight wins praise, but strains showing. [SEP] Carrot yellow-leaf virus // other carrots in the patch. Using pesticides to kill aphids or nets to trap them will also limit the spread of the virus to other patches. For classifying the Carrot yellow-leaf virus, the Baltimore system and the International Committee of Taxonomy of Viruses system classifies this virus as closteroviridae, or a closterovirus. The +ssRNA genome is 15.5 to 19.3 kb, contains a 3’ terminus, and does not have a poly(A) tract. The 5’ terminus commonly has a methylated nucleotide cap. The virus genome is 1250-2200 nm in length and 10-13 nm in diameter. In order to replicate, the carrot yellow
Taiwan's carrot-and-stick approach to virus fight wins praise, but strains showing. [SEP] Carrot yellow-leaf virus // virus particle was found to be 1.6006 X 10 nm long with a 3.7-nm helical pitch. These are characteristics from the genus "Closterovirus". There was a suspected case found in the Netherlands that was originally going to be studied because it seemed similar to CYLV, but it ended up having a different host range. There was an attempt to inoculate another carrot with the sap of an infected carrot, but this was unsuccessful; the carrot did not become immune. Attempts to grow a virus in a carrot by mechanically injecting the virus into the carrot rather than naturally infecting it
Taiwan's carrot-and-stick approach to virus fight wins praise, but strains showing. [SEP] Alice S. Huang // interfering particles (DIPs) which can be utilized to combat viruses. DIPs are composed of viral structural proteins and sets of DNA or RNA which are incomplete. These DIPs will interfere in replication of the virus because they are reproduced at the expense of a standard viral particle. Alice Huang's work on DIPs has been utilized to combat cancer, HIV, and plant related diseases. Alice S. Huang’s passion for viruses drove her to her success in the discovery of viruses features and learning how to manipulate their development. She started studying about viruses as a graduate student, when little was known
Taiwan's carrot-and-stick approach to virus fight wins praise, but strains showing. [SEP] Carrot yellow-leaf virus // This can potentially be used for diagnosis of CYLV. There is still a need to modify Koch’s postulates to establish a cause and effect relationship between CYLV and root necrosis. This requires future experimentation using an agricultural environment to accurately mediate the transmission of the virus. A harvested virus cannot simply be placed into a healthy host and have the expected symptoms without the natural environment. Right now, CYLV is being prevented more than treated since there are no viable treatment methods yet. One method of prevention is to remove carrots with yellowing leaves so that they do not infect
Taiwan's carrot-and-stick approach to virus fight wins praise, but strains showing. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic in Taiwan // (H1N1) had become the dominant community strain since the 30th week of 2009, and accounts for more than 90% of all influenza strains isolated. First Oseltamivir-resistant pandemic influenza A (H1N1) virus strain was discovered in October, 2009. Since June 1, 2009, more than 800 isolates were tested for oseltamivir resistance and 8 were found to be resistant. All resistant strains developed after oseltamivir treatment and there are no evidence of continuous transmission of these strains. Taiwan CDC's database links with that of more than 300 hospitals all over the country. The number of patients diagnosed of influenza among all patients
Taiwan's carrot-and-stick approach to virus fight wins praise, but strains showing. [SEP] Jiang Yi-huah // South Korea to the Taiwanese business people and general assistance. The Financial Supervisory Commission will carry out measures to maintain the stability of Taiwan's capital market. The Ministry of National Defense will also be standby to provide any assistance. After Taiwan's first confirmed H7N9 flu case on 24 April, the first outside Mainland China, Jiang gathered officials from Department of Health, Ministry of Transportation and Communications and Council of Agriculture to discuss responsive measures to this outbreak. He said that the government would bring forward the ban on slaughtering fowls in traditional markets to mid of June by asking the
Taiwan's carrot-and-stick approach to virus fight wins praise, but strains showing. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic in Asia // confirmed in Taiwan. The government had previously taken several steps to prevent the possible outbreak of Swine Flu, including a command center set up, travel alerts for infected nations, and more severe health check been conducted at international ports. Taiwan said visitors who came back from affected areas with fever would be quarantined. According to The Department of Health (DOH), Taiwan has a sufficient supply of surgical masks and vaccine to deal with the flu. The DOH also stated that they have 50 million to 60 million masks in stock and local manufacturers have the capability of producing 200,000 doses
Taiwan's carrot-and-stick approach to virus fight wins praise, but strains showing. [SEP] Carrot yellow-leaf virus // viruses have developed proteins called Silencing Suppressors in response to RNAi. The mechanism is unknown, but mutation in those proteins allow the plant to recover from the viral infection and prevents systemic infections. The virus cell specificity depends more on the vector than on the virus itself. There are some hypotheses afirming that CYLF evolved to infect phloem cells because they are the most common feeding site for the vectors. During feeding, aphids transmit the virus into phloem cells. However, in order to spread the infection, viruses need to move from one cell to another. Using Citrus tristeza virus as
Doors frontman Jim Morrison has been found alive in Paris more than 45 years after he supposedly died there. [SEP] Jim Morrison // Paris. In letters, he described going for long walks through the city, alone. During this time, he shaved his beard and lost some of the weight he had gained in the previous months. He died on July 3, 1971, at age 27. He was found by Courson in a bathtub at his apartment. The official cause of death was listed as heart failure, although no autopsy was performed, as it was not required by French law. His death was two years to the day after the death of the Rolling Stones guitarist Brian Jones, and approximately nine months after the
Doors frontman Jim Morrison has been found alive in Paris more than 45 years after he supposedly died there. [SEP] No One Here Gets Out Alive // No One Here Gets Out Alive No One Here Gets Out Alive (1980) is a biography of American singer-songwriter Jim Morrison, lead singer and lyricist of the rock band the Doors. Morrison died in Paris in July 1971 and this was the first biography written about the singer. The first draft was written solely by Jerry Hopkins shortly after Morrison's death. Hopkins, a journalist with "Rolling Stone", based the draft on an extensive interview he conducted with Morrison as well as interviews with friends and associates. However, attempts to find a publisher failed. A second manuscript, with additional content added
Doors frontman Jim Morrison has been found alive in Paris more than 45 years after he supposedly died there. [SEP] The Doors // to Paris with Pamela Courson. He had visited the city the previous summer and was interested in moving there to become a writer in exile. Morrison was found dead in a bathtub on July 3, 1971, in Paris by his girlfriend Pamela Courson. Pursuant to French law, no autopsy was performed because the medical examiner claimed to have found no evidence of foul play. The absence of an official autopsy and the death certificate's having no reason of death besides heart failure, have left many questions regarding the cause of death. Morrison was buried in the "Poets' Corner" of Père
Doors frontman Jim Morrison has been found alive in Paris more than 45 years after he supposedly died there. [SEP] Jim Morrison // Jim Morrison James Douglas "Jim" Morrison (December 8, 1943 – July 3, 1971) was an American singer, songwriter and poet, best remembered as the lead vocalist of the rock band The Doors. Due to his poetic lyrics, distinctive voice, wild personality, performances, and the dramatic circumstances surrounding his life and early death, Morrison is regarded by music critics and fans as one of the most iconic and influential frontmen in rock music history. Since his death, his fame has endured as one of popular culture's most rebellious and oft-displayed icons, representing the generation gap and youth counterculture. Morrison co-founded the
Doors frontman Jim Morrison has been found alive in Paris more than 45 years after he supposedly died there. [SEP] The Doors (film) // American Prayer". As Jim plays in the front garden with the children, he sees that one of the children is his childhood self. Jim comments: "This is the strangest life I've ever known." In 1971, Pam finds Jim dead in a bathtub in Paris, France, at the age of 27. The final scenes of the film before the credits roll are of Jim's gravesite in Père Lachaise Cemetery in Paris while "The Severed Garden (Adagio)" plays in the background. Just before the credits, the screen whites out and text appears saying "Jim Morrison is said to have died of heart
Doors frontman Jim Morrison has been found alive in Paris more than 45 years after he supposedly died there. [SEP] Wilderness: The Lost Writings of Jim Morrison // Wilderness: The Lost Writings of Jim Morrison Wilderness: The Lost Writings of Jim Morrison is a book of poems by Jim Morrison. Jim Morrison, lead singer and lyricist for The Doors, wrote poetry during his life, and especially while in the band. His poetry was inspired by Arthur Rimbaud, William Blake, and many others. In 1971 Morrison went to Paris, France with his girlfriend Pamela Courson, and most of his poetry is dedicated to her. When in Paris he died at age 27. "Listen, real poetry doesn't say anything, it just ticks off the possibilities. Opens all doors. You can
Doors frontman Jim Morrison has been found alive in Paris more than 45 years after he supposedly died there. [SEP] The Lost Paris Tapes // rejected from at least two Doors albums. . . . It was a drunken, and mostly ad-libbed, recording. Yet, listening carefully . . . , one hears the authentic last of Jim Morrison, two weeks before he died, as he roars spontaneous verses and imagery about his hard-hearted woman, his anguish and his obsessions, easily deploying a poetic champion's compositional facility for the natural cadence and spontaneous rhyme"." The segment was in fact recorded in Los Angeles and not in Paris as previously thought. Morrison offhandedly labeled the resulting reel-to-reel tape of the session "Jomo and the Smoothies", Jomo being
Doors frontman Jim Morrison has been found alive in Paris more than 45 years after he supposedly died there. [SEP] Jim Morrison // lizard in Myanmar. The extinct reptile was given the moniker "Barbaturex morrisoni" in honor of Morrison. "This is a king lizard, and he was the lizard king, so it just fit," said Jason Head, a paleontologist at the University of Nebraska–Lincoln. Jim Morrison James Douglas "Jim" Morrison (December 8, 1943 – July 3, 1971) was an American singer, songwriter and poet, best remembered as the lead vocalist of the rock band The Doors. Due to his poetic lyrics, distinctive voice, wild personality, performances, and the dramatic circumstances surrounding his life and early death, Morrison is regarded by music critics and
Doors frontman Jim Morrison has been found alive in Paris more than 45 years after he supposedly died there. [SEP] A Tribute to Jim Morrison // A Tribute to Jim Morrison A Tribute to Jim Morrison (later re titled as "The Doors: A Tribute to Jim Morrison" and "No One Here Gets Out Alive: A Tribute to Jim Morrison") is a 1981 documentary about Jim Morrison, lead singer of American rock band the Doors who died in July 1971. The documentary explores Morrison's interest in film (he was a graduate of UCLA film school), poetry, psychology, mysticism and sexuality. Excerpts of Doors songs are included with only TV appearances playing "Light My Fire" and "Touch Me" played in their entirety. It features contemporary interviews with Morrison
Doors frontman Jim Morrison has been found alive in Paris more than 45 years after he supposedly died there. [SEP] No One Here Gets Out Alive // rare footage and was the first video released by the band. It helped rekindle interest in the Doors by allowing fans that were too young or unable to remember, to see the Doors in action. Rights to the book were bought by director Oliver Stone who made it into a movie in 1991. No One Here Gets Out Alive No One Here Gets Out Alive (1980) is a biography of American singer-songwriter Jim Morrison, lead singer and lyricist of the rock band the Doors. Morrison died in Paris in July 1971 and this was the first biography written about the
Michigan native set to become state’s new state veterinarian. [SEP] Michigan State University College of Veterinary Medicine // Michigan State University College of Veterinary Medicine The Michigan State University College of Veterinary Medicine (CVM) is a veterinary college in the United States that was founded in 1910 and awards about 100 Doctor of Veterinary Medicine (DVM) degrees each year. It is the only veterinary college in Michigan. It is composed of the departments of Large Animal Clinical Sciences, Small Animal Clinical Sciences, Microbiology, Pharmacology and Toxicology, Physiology, and Pathobiology, and Diagnostic Investigation. It offers a four-year program leading to the DVM as well as graduate study leading to the master of science (MS) and PhD, and recently a
Michigan native set to become state’s new state veterinarian. [SEP] Michigan State University College of Veterinary Medicine // joint program in veterinary medicine and public health (DVM/MPH), affiliated with University of Minnesota's School of Public Health. The college was the setting for the show "Vet School Confidential", which originally aired on Animal Planet in 2001. When Michigan State University opened in 1855, the school provided education in veterinary science as part of its agricultural mission. The first veterinarian joined the faculty at MSU in 1883. The veterinary school was established in 1910. The Michigan State University Veterinary Medical Center is part of the college, and provides veterinary medical services in 18 specialty clinics. About 30,000 cases, primarily companion
Michigan native set to become state’s new state veterinarian. [SEP] Michigan State University // veterinary science since its founding, the College of Veterinary Medicine was not formally established as a four-year, degree-granting program until 1910. In 2011, the Michigan State University College of Veterinary Medicine was ranked No. 9 in the nation. The college has over of office, teaching, and research space, as well as a veterinary teaching hospital. In recent years, MSU's music program has grown substantially. Music major enrollment increased more than 97% between 1991 and 2004. In early 2007, this growth led the university board of trustees to spin the music program off into its own college unit: The MSU College
Michigan native set to become state’s new state veterinarian. [SEP] Michigan State University College of Veterinary Medicine // animals and horses, are treated annually. In the past it has treated Zeke the Wonder Dog and the Arabian horses that performed at Michigan State Spartans football games. Every year the hospital holds its annual "Celebration of Life" to honor pets who fought through tough illnesses. Michigan State University College of Veterinary Medicine The Michigan State University College of Veterinary Medicine (CVM) is a veterinary college in the United States that was founded in 1910 and awards about 100 Doctor of Veterinary Medicine (DVM) degrees each year. It is the only veterinary college in Michigan. It is composed of the
Michigan native set to become state’s new state veterinarian. [SEP] North End, Detroit // Improvement Council (NEYIC, founded by community activist Delores Bennett), North End Woodward Community Coalition (NEWCC), and the Central Detroit Christian Community Development Corporation (CDC). On March 14, 2016, the Michigan Humane Society opened its new and expanded $15.5 million animal care campus on five acres, including a 35,000 square foot, state-of-the-art veterinary facility, located just east of New Center at 7887 Chrysler Drive near Clay Street. The society said the larger facility will enable it to expand its teaching and training opportunities with Michigan State University’s College of Veterinary Medicine. On November 11, 2016, the Michigan Urban Farming Initiative (MUFI)
Michigan native set to become state’s new state veterinarian. [SEP] Michigan Humane Society // temperament as defined by the Asilomar Accords and thus could not be placed into homes. In 2014, the Michigan Humane Society started construction on a new and enlarged $15.5 million animal care campus on more than 4-acres, that will include a 35,000-square-foot, state-of-the-art facility, located just east of New Center, an area of Detroit, at 7887 Chrysler Drive near Clay Street. The MHS said on its website that the larger facility will enable the society to expand its teaching, and training opportunities with Michigan State University’s College of Veterinary Medicine. In June 2011, MHS board members Cheryl Phillips and Lee
Michigan native set to become state’s new state veterinarian. [SEP] Michigan Veterinary Medical Association // Michigan Veterinary Medical Association The Michigan Veterinary Medical Association (MVMA) is a not-for-profit association representing more than 2300 Michigan veterinarians working in private and corporate practice, government, industry, educational institutions, and uniformed services. One of the primary sources of continuing education for veterinarians located in the State of Michigan, the MVMA develops and maintains educational programming for DVMs. As Michigan is one of the few remaining states without mandatory continuing education, the MVMA works with the Michigan Board of Veterinary Medicine, part of the Michigan Department of Licensing and Regulatory Affairs, to develop program guidelines and standards. In addition to
Michigan native set to become state’s new state veterinarian. [SEP] Waded Cruzado // in 38 years. The program allows MSU students to spend their first year of medical school at MSU and then enter the University of Washington School of Medicine. The legislature also supported the creation of a cooperative veterinary medicine program with Washington State University. Up to 10 MSU students may be accepted into the Washington State University College of Veterinary Medicine. They will spend their first year of study at MSU, and then transfer to Washington State. In fall 2013, Cruzado sought approval from the Board of Regents to build a new 400-bed dormitory and elevate the university honors program
Michigan native set to become state’s new state veterinarian. [SEP] The Incredible Dr. Pol // to his girlfriend Beth Oaks in 2018. Dr. Brenda Grettenberger was born in Eaton Rapids, Michigan, in 1967. After graduating from Michigan State University College of Veterinary Medicine in 1992, Dr. Brenda began working at Pol Veterinary Services. At the time, the majority of the business at Pol Veterinary Services was large animal medicine, and Dr. Brenda says it took time for some of the older farmers to adjust to having a female veterinarian. Though she did win the farmers over, the number of the dairy farms in the area began to decline, and Dr. Brenda began to treat more
Michigan native set to become state’s new state veterinarian. [SEP] Scott Sims (veterinarian) // Scott Sims (veterinarian) Scott Sims DVM (1955 – July 25, 2015) was an American veterinarian and television personality. He is best known for his factual television series "Aloha Vet", which aired in 2015. Sims was born in New Jersey and raised in California. He took his first equestrian lesson at 4 years old and bought his first horse, with his own money, at 7 years old. He obtained his pilot's license shortly after graduating from high school. He graduated from University of California, Davis in 1979 with a Bachelor of Science in zoology. He then graduated from the University of
If you have a runny nose and sputum, you have a common cold, not Covid-19. [SEP] Common cold // it is common in infants and young children. The cough is usually mild compared to that accompanying influenza. While a cough and a fever indicate a higher likelihood of influenza in adults, a great deal of similarity exists between these two conditions. A number of the viruses that cause the common cold may also result in asymptomatic infections. The color of the sputum or nasal secretion may vary from clear to yellow to green and does not indicate the class of agent causing the infection. A cold usually begins with fatigue, a feeling of being chilled, sneezing, and a headache,
If you have a runny nose and sputum, you have a common cold, not Covid-19. [SEP] Common cold // Common cold The common cold, also known simply as a cold, is a viral infectious disease of the upper respiratory tract that primarily affects the nose. The throat, sinuses, and larynx may also be affected. Signs and symptoms may appear less than two days after exposure to the virus. These may include coughing, sore throat, runny nose, sneezing, headache, and fever. People usually recover in seven to ten days, but some symptoms may last up to three weeks. Occasionally those with other health problems may develop pneumonia. Well over 200 virus strains are implicated in causing the common cold, with
If you have a runny nose and sputum, you have a common cold, not Covid-19. [SEP] Enterovirus 68 // cold, including a runny nose, sore throat, cough, and fever. As the disease progresses, more serious symptoms may occur, including difficulty breathing as in pneumonia, reduced alertness, a reduction in urine production, and dehydration, and may lead to respiratory failure. The degree of severity of symptoms experienced seems to depend on the demographic population in question. Experts estimate that the majority of the population has, in fact, been exposed to the enterovirus, but that no symptoms are exhibited in healthy adults. In contrast, EV-D68 is disproportionately debilitating in very young children, as well as the very weak. While several hundred
If you have a runny nose and sputum, you have a common cold, not Covid-19. [SEP] Common cold // provide some relief of nocturnal cough, congestion, and sleep difficulty. Some advise to avoid physical exercise if there are symptoms such as fever, widespread muscle aches or fatigue. It is regarded as safe to perform moderate exercise if the symptoms are confined to the head, including runny nose, nasal congestion, sneezing, or a minor sore throat. Antibiotics have no effect against viral infections or against the viruses that cause the common cold. Due to their side effects, antibiotics cause overall harm but are still frequently prescribed. Some of the reasons that antibiotics are so commonly prescribed include people's expectations for
If you have a runny nose and sputum, you have a common cold, not Covid-19. [SEP] Common cold // followed in a couple of days by a runny nose and cough. Symptoms may begin within sixteen hours of exposure and typically peak two to four days after onset. They usually resolve in seven to ten days, but some can last for up to three weeks. The average duration of cough is eighteen days and in some cases people develop a post-viral cough which can linger after the infection is gone. In children, the cough lasts for more than ten days in 35–40% of cases and continues for more than 25 days in 10%. The common cold is a viral
If you have a runny nose and sputum, you have a common cold, not Covid-19. [SEP] Common cold // is generally mild and self-limiting with most symptoms generally improving in a week. Half of cases go away in 10 days and 90% in 15 days. Severe complications, if they occur, are usually in the very old, the very young, or those who are immunosuppressed. Secondary bacterial infections may occur resulting in sinusitis, pharyngitis, or an ear infection. It is estimated that sinusitis occurs in 8% and ear infection in 30% of cases. The common cold is the most common human disease and affects people all over the globe. Adults typically have two to three infections annually, and children may
If you have a runny nose and sputum, you have a common cold, not Covid-19. [SEP] Psychodynamic Diagnostic Manual // diagnosis does not adequately inform a clinician how to understand and treat the symptoms without proper context. By analogy, if a patient went to her physician complaining of watering eyes and a runny nose, the symptoms alone do not indicate the appropriate treatment. Her symptoms could be a function of seasonal allergies, a bacterial sinus infection, the common cold, or she may have just come from her grandmother's funeral. The doctor might treat allergies with an antihisamine, the sinus infection with antibiotics, the cold with zinc, and give her patient a Kleenex tissue after the funeral. All four conditions may
If you have a runny nose and sputum, you have a common cold, not Covid-19. [SEP] Common cold // rhinoviruses being the most common. They spread through the air during close contact with infected people or indirectly through contact with objects in the environment, followed by transfer to the mouth or nose. Risk factors include going to child care facilities, not sleeping well, and psychological stress. The symptoms are mostly due to the body's immune response to the infection rather than to tissue destruction by the viruses themselves. In contrast, those affected by influenza can show similar symptoms as people with a cold, but symptoms are usually more severe. Additionally, influenza is less likely to result in a runny
If you have a runny nose and sputum, you have a common cold, not Covid-19. [SEP] Common cold // most frequent infectious disease in humans. The average adult gets two to three colds a year, while the average child may get six to eight. Infections occur more commonly during the winter. These infections have existed throughout human history. The typical symptoms of a cold include a cough, a runny nose, nasal congestion and a sore throat, sometimes accompanied by muscle ache, fatigue, headache, and loss of appetite. A sore throat is present in about 40% of cases and a cough in about 50%, while muscle ache occurs in about half. In adults, a fever is generally not present but
If you have a runny nose and sputum, you have a common cold, not Covid-19. [SEP] Upper respiratory tract infection // area. In uncomplicated colds, cough and nasal discharge may persist for 14 days or more even after other symptoms have resolved. Acute upper respiratory tract infections include rhinitis, pharyngitis/tonsillitis and laryngitis often referred to as a common cold, and their complications: sinusitis, ear infection and sometimes bronchitis (though bronchi are generally classified as part of the lower respiratory tract.) Symptoms of URTIs commonly include cough, sore throat, runny nose, nasal congestion, headache, low-grade fever, facial pressure and sneezing. Symptoms of rhinovirus in children usually begin 1–3 days after exposure. The illness usually lasts 7–10 more days. Color or consistency changes
FDA gives fast track status to AstraZeneca's diabetes drug Farxiga. [SEP] Diana Zuckerman // committees to testify as a medical expert on a variety of drugs and devices. On December 12, 2013, Zuckerman testified regarding the type-2 diabetes drug dapagliflozin (Farxiga), saying: "My concern about this drug is that there are just too many unanswered questions – and those unanswered questions are frightening ones. That was true when the FDA rejected this application for approval 2 years ago, and it is still true today." She cited studies that highlighted the risks that the drug poses, as well as methodological concerns such as a lack of diversity in clinical trials. On November 14, 2012, Zuckerman
FDA gives fast track status to AstraZeneca's diabetes drug Farxiga. [SEP] Dapagliflozin // Dapagliflozin Dapagliflozin (INN, USAN, trade name Farxiga in the U.S. and Forxiga in the EU and Russia) is a drug of the gliflozin class, used to treat type 2 diabetes. It was developed by Bristol-Myers Squibb in partnership with AstraZeneca. In July 2011 a U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) endocrinologic and metabolic drugs advisory committee recommended against approval until more data were available. The FDA approved dapagliflozin on January 8, 2014 for glycemic control, along with diet and exercise, in adults with type 2 diabetes. In 2012, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) of the European
FDA gives fast track status to AstraZeneca's diabetes drug Farxiga. [SEP] Dapagliflozin // than one thousandth of the IC for SGLT1 (1.1 versus 1390 nmol/L), so that the drug does not interfere with intestinal glucose absorption. Clinical trials to assess effectiveness for patients with type 1 diabetes are underway. Dapagliflozin Dapagliflozin (INN, USAN, trade name Farxiga in the U.S. and Forxiga in the EU and Russia) is a drug of the gliflozin class, used to treat type 2 diabetes. It was developed by Bristol-Myers Squibb in partnership with AstraZeneca. In July 2011 a U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) endocrinologic and metabolic drugs advisory committee recommended against approval until more data were available.
FDA gives fast track status to AstraZeneca's diabetes drug Farxiga. [SEP] Steven Nissen // the Bristol-Myers Squibb drug Pargluva (muraglitazar), an experimental type 2 diabetes drug. When an U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) advisory panel charged with reviewing the clinical trial data approved the drug, he immediately began an in-depth analysis. In 2007, the meta-analysis by Nissen and his co-investigator Kathy Wolksi, published in the Journal of the American Medical Association online on October 20, found that the diabetes drug rosiglitazone (Avandia) produced by GlaxoSmithKline carried high cardiovascular risks. The FDA issued an alert on May 21, 2007, leading to a warning by the Food and Drug Administration and a sales loss of
FDA gives fast track status to AstraZeneca's diabetes drug Farxiga. [SEP] Saxagliptin // rights to develop and commercialize the compound in Japan. Under the licensing agreement, Otsuka will be responsible for all development costs, but Bristol-Myers Squibb retains rights to co-promote saxagliptin with Otsuka in Japan. Further, on 11 January 2007 it was announced that Bristol-Myers Squibb and AstraZeneca would work together to complete development of the drug and in subsequent marketing. Saxagliptin Saxagliptin, sold under the brand name Onglyza, is an oral hypoglycemic (anti-diabetic drug) of the dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitor class. Early development was solely by Bristol-Myers Squibb; in 2007 AstraZeneca joined with Bristol-Myers Squibb to co-develop the final compound and
FDA gives fast track status to AstraZeneca's diabetes drug Farxiga. [SEP] AstraZeneca // been commercialised. The drug was developed jointly by FibroGen and AstraZeneca. Unlike Erythropoietin (EPO), which directly stimulates the production of red blood cells, FG-4592 is taken orally, and stimulates natural production of EPO in a manner similar to altitude training. AstraZeneca AstraZeneca plc is an Anglo–Swedish multinational pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical company. In 2013, it moved its headquarters to Cambridge, UK, and concentrated its R&D in three sites: Cambridge; Gaithersburg, Maryland, USA (location of MedImmune) for work on biopharmaceuticals; and Mölndal (near Gothenburg) in Sweden, for research on traditional chemical drugs. AstraZeneca has a portfolio of products for major disease areas
FDA gives fast track status to AstraZeneca's diabetes drug Farxiga. [SEP] Fast track (FDA) // resolved quickly, often leading to earlier drug approval and access by patients. Fast track (FDA) Fast track is a designation by the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) of an investigational drug for expedited review to facilitate development of drugs which treat a serious or life-threatening condition and fill an unmet medical need. Fast Track designation must be requested by the drug company. The request can be initiated at any time during the drug development process. FDA will review the request and attempt to make a decision within sixty days. Fast Track is one of five Food and Drug
FDA gives fast track status to AstraZeneca's diabetes drug Farxiga. [SEP] Lanabecestat // that they received FDA fast track designation for lanabecestat. On June 12, 2018, Lilly and AstraZeneca announced that the two ongoing Phase III clinical trials for lanabecestat were not likely to meet their primary endpoint and that all current trials would be stopped due to futility. Lanabecestat Lanabecestat (formerly known as AZD3293 or LY3314814) is an oral beta-secretase 1 cleaving enzyme (BACE) inhibitor. A BACE inhibitor in theory would prevent the buildup of beta-amyloid and may help slow or stop the progression of Alzheimer's disease. In September 2014, AstraZeneca and Eli Lilly and Company announced an agreement to co-develop lanabecestat.
FDA gives fast track status to AstraZeneca's diabetes drug Farxiga. [SEP] Empagliflozin // the kidney and thereby excreting glucose (i.e., blood sugar) via the urine. As of May 2013, Boehringer and Lilly had submitted applications for marketing approval to the European Medicines Agency and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The drug was approved in Europe in May 2014 and was approved by the FDA in August 2014. The FDA required four postmarketing studies: a cardiovascular outcomes trial, two studies in children, and a toxicity study in animals related to the pediatric trials. Empagliflozin Empagliflozin (trade name Jardiance among others) is a medication of the gliflozin class, approved for the treatment of
FDA gives fast track status to AstraZeneca's diabetes drug Farxiga. [SEP] AstraZeneca // COPD drug, Eklira. The $2.1 billion deal included an allocation of $1.2 billion for development in the respiratory franchise, one of AstraZeneca's three target therapeutic areas announced the year before. In August 2014 the company announced it had entered into a three-year collaboration with Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma on diabetic nephropathy. In September 2014 the company would join forces with Eli Lilly in developing and commercialising its candidate BACE inhibitor – AZD3292 – used for the treament of Alzheimers. The deal could yield up to $500 million for the company. In November 2014 the company's biologics R&D operation, MedImmune, agreed to
U.S. McDonald's to put calorie counts in lights. [SEP] Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine // and clutching a partially-eaten hamburger. The group highlighted the high levels of fat and sodium in products such as the "Double quarter pounder with cheese extra value meal", which at the time contained 61 grams of fat and 1,650 milligrams of sodium. The group chose Washington, D.C., as the first city for the campaign because it had the second-highest rate of deaths associated with heart disease. McDonald's called the ad "outrageous, misleading and unfair", and encouraged customers "to put such outlandish propaganda in perspective, and to make food and lifestyle choices that are right for them". The National Restaurant Association
U.S. McDonald's to put calorie counts in lights. [SEP] Criticism of fast food // Lin and E. Frazao, from the US Department of Agriculture(USDA), the percentage of calories which can be attributed to fast-food consumption has increased from 3% to 12% of the total calories consumed in the United States. A regular meal at McDonald's consists of a Big Mac, large fries, and a large Coca-Cola drink amounting to 1,430 calories. The USDA recommends a daily caloric intake of for men and women (respectively) between 31 and 50, at a physical activity level equivalent to walking about 1.5 to 3 miles per day at 3 to 4 miles per hour in addition to the
U.S. McDonald's to put calorie counts in lights. [SEP] History of the hamburger // one thousand calorie threshold established by the Health Strategy Against Obesity, which is promoted by the health institutes of the Spanish Association of Food and Nutrition Safety (AESAN). AESAN works to prevent the growth of the incidence of obesity in all people, particularly children. More generally, dietitians are beginning to see that the consumption of foods high in calories can cause excessive appetite. In response to this message, many restaurant chains have reduced the calories in their burgers since the beginning of the 20th century. The late 20th century witnessed a lawsuit brought by McDonald's against two environmental activists, Helen
U.S. McDonald's to put calorie counts in lights. [SEP] Data reporting // provided the highest calorie count for the money. The mathematical techniques that he used (dividing the calorie total by the price) were flawless, as were the calorie counts, which McDonald's provides as the law requires and which serve as an example of accurate data reporting. However, when Hickey looked to collect data on prices at McDonald's, he relied on a website that in turn relied on unpaid "crowd-sourced" data reporting. Hickey's data reporting was inaccurate, including the improbable assertion that a two-patty cheeseburger cost less than a one-patty cheeseburger. Since Hickey failed to review or scrutinize the incorrectly reported data,
U.S. McDonald's to put calorie counts in lights. [SEP] Guilt-free consumption // launched Satisfires, a line of fries with 40% of fat and 30% of calories less than McDonald's equivalent. Meanwhile, McDonald's announced a global partnership with the Alliance for a Healthier Generation in order to provide consumers with healthier meals: side-salad, fruit or vegetables as substitute for fried. Furthermore, the company decided that at least 70% of the food prepared and sold by a specific store of McDonald's, had to come from that same country in which the store was located. In the Netherlands, a new generation of mobile phones, by the local firm Fairphone, provided smartphones which are manufactured without
U.S. McDonald's to put calorie counts in lights. [SEP] History of McDonald's // came when 51 people were charged with conspiring to rig McDonald's game promotions over the course of several years. It was revealed that $24 million of winning McDonald's game tickets had been stolen as part of the scam. McDonald's was not implicated in the scheme, which centered on a worker at an outside company that had administered the promotions. McDonald's also had to increasingly battle its public image as a purveyor of fatty, unhealthy food. Consumers began filing lawsuits contending that years of eating at McDonald's had made them overweight. McDonald's responded by introducing low-calorie menu items and switching to
U.S. McDonald's to put calorie counts in lights. [SEP] McDonald's // the company, McDonald's has streamlined the menu which in the United States contained nearly 200 items. The company has also looked to introduce healthier options, and removed high-fructose corn syrup from hamburger buns. The company has also removed artificial preservatives from Chicken McNuggets, replacing chicken skin, safflower oil and citric acid found in Chicken McNuggets with pea starch, rice starch and powdered lemon juice. In September 2018, McDonald's USA announced that they no longer use artificial preservatives, flavors and colors entirely from seven classic burgers sold in the U.S., including the hamburger, cheeseburger, double cheeseburger, McDouble, Quarter Pounder with Cheese,
U.S. McDonald's to put calorie counts in lights. [SEP] History of McDonald's // menu items were successfully launched, including entree salads, McGriddles breakfast sandwiches (which used pancakes in place of bread), and white-meat Chicken McNuggets. Some outlets began test-marketing fruits and vegetables as Happy Meal options. It was quickly determined that focus on customer experience was key in reversing the slippage. Then, a new global marketing campaign was adopted which was designed around the notion of the "Rolling Energy" phase. Launched on September 29, 2003, the campaign began featuring youthful images, hip music, and pop culture celebrities touting the tagline, "I'm lovin' it". Next, James R. Cantalupo was called back from retirement to
U.S. McDonald's to put calorie counts in lights. [SEP] McDonald's // issues within the restaurant. In an effort to reduce energy usage by 25 percent in its restaurants, McDonald's opened a prototype restaurant in Chicago in 2009 with the intention of using the model in its other restaurants throughout the world. Building on past efforts, specifically a restaurant it opened in Sweden in 2000 that was the first to intentionally incorporate green ideas, McDonald's designed the Chicago site to save energy by incorporating old and new ideas such as managing storm water, using skylights for more natural lighting and installing some partitions and tabletops made from recycled goods. When McDonald's received
U.S. McDonald's to put calorie counts in lights. [SEP] McDonald's advertising // has run into trouble with its campaigns. There have been many McDonald's advertising campaigns and slogans over the years. The company is one of the most prevalent fast food advertisers, especially in the United States, where it spends the most advertising money of any fast-food restaurant and the fourth-most of any advertiser in the country. McDonald's Canada's corporate website states that the commercial campaigns have always focused on the "overall McDonald's experience", rather than just product. The purpose of the image has always been "portraying warmth and a real slice of everyday life." Its TV ads, showing various people engaging
Statin Drugs May Cut Risk of Kidney Trouble After Surgery [SEP] Statin // in the number of cardiac events (heart attack, sudden cardiac death) and a 17% reduced risk of stroke after long-term treatment. A greater benefit is observed with high-intensity statin therapy. They have less effect than the fibrates or niacin in reducing triglycerides and raising HDL-cholesterol ("good cholesterol"). Statins have been studied for improving operative outcomes in cardiac and vascular surgery. Mortality and adverse cardiovascular events were reduced in statin groups. While no direct comparison exists, all statins appear effective regardless of potency or degree of cholesterol reduction. There do appear to be some differences between them, with simvastatin and pravastatin
Statin Drugs May Cut Risk of Kidney Trouble After Surgery [SEP] Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease // higher risk for serious liver injury from statins according to AASLD and EASL. However, even if statins can be used with patients with NASH cirrhosis, they should be avoided in case of decompensated cirrhosis. Statins have also been recommended for use in treating dyslipidemia for patients with NAFLD. According to NICE guidelines, statins can continue to be administered unless liver enzyme levels double within 3 months of starting statins. Treatment with pentoxifylline has demonstrated improvements in the histological appearance of fatty liver tissue under the microscope in many small trials. Obeticholic acid and elafibranor are not recommended as of 2018
Statin Drugs May Cut Risk of Kidney Trouble After Surgery [SEP] Acute coronary syndrome // a thallium scintigram may be requested. If there is no evidence of ST segment elevation on the electrocardiogram, delaying urgent angioplasty until the next morning is not inferior to doing so immediately. Using statins in the first 14 days after ACS reduces the risk of further ACS. In a cohort study comparing NSTEMI and STEMI, people with NSTEMI had a similar risk of death at one year after PCI as compared to people with STEMI (3.4% vs 4.4%). However, NSTEMI had significantly more "major cardiac events" (death, myocardial infarction, disabling stroke, or requiring revascularization) at one year (24.0% vs 16.6%).
Statin Drugs May Cut Risk of Kidney Trouble After Surgery [SEP] Statin // and possibly prostate cancer. They appear to have no effect on the risk of lung cancer, kidney cancer, breast cancer, pancreatic cancer, or bladder cancer. Combining any statin with a fibrate or niacin (other categories of lipid-lowering drugs) increases the risks for rhabdomyolysis to almost 6.0 per 10,000 person-years. Monitoring liver enzymes and creatine kinase is especially prudent in those on high-dose statins or in those on statin/fibrate combinations, and mandatory in the case of muscle cramps or of deterioration in kidney function. Consumption of grapefruit or grapefruit juice inhibits the metabolism of certain statins. Bitter oranges may have a
Statin Drugs May Cut Risk of Kidney Trouble After Surgery [SEP] Statin // either the LDL receptor or apolipoprotein B genes, both of which are responsible for LDL clearance from the blood. Statins remain a first-line treatment in familial hypercholesterolemia, although other cholesterol-reducing measures may be required. In people with homozygous deficiencies, statins may still prove helpful, albeit at high doses and in combination with other cholesterol-reducing medications. A 2014 meta-analysis found that statins could reduce the risk of contrast-induced nephropathy by 53% in people undergoing coronary angiography/percutaneous interventions. The effect was found to be stronger among those with preexisting kidney dysfunction or diabetes mellitus. The most important adverse side effects are muscle
Statin Drugs May Cut Risk of Kidney Trouble After Surgery [SEP] Red yeast rice // which would occur if the drug lovastatin was added - rather than the expected composition of many monacolin compounds. Statin drugs are known to cause muscle and liver damage. Statin-associated rhabdomyolysis can lead to kidney damage and possibly kidney failure (renal failure). This is why they are prescription drugs rather than over-the-counter, and with recommendations that the patients' physicians schedule liver function tests on a regular basis. There are reports in the literature of muscle myopathy and liver damage resulting from red yeast rice usage. From a placebo-controlled trial in patients with known statin-associated myalgias, in the treated group, two
Statin Drugs May Cut Risk of Kidney Trouble After Surgery [SEP] Outcomes Research Consortium // infarctions, while promoting serious surgical bleeding.: Clonidine does not prevent infarctions, while promoting serious hypotension. And neither prevents acute kidney injury. How to prevent perioperative myocardial injury remains under active investigation, but preventing hypotension may help. The Consortium's work in this area was summarized in the New England Journal of Medicine. About a hundred Consortium studies evaluate aspects of acute pain including peripheral nerve blocks and multimodal analgesia; the group is now especially interested in persistent incisional pain. Persistent pain after surgery is surprisingly common, with 10-20% of patients reporting pain 6 or 12 months after surgery. After high risk
Statin Drugs May Cut Risk of Kidney Trouble After Surgery [SEP] Cardiovascular disease // with high blood pressure require more than one drug to achieve adequate reduction in blood pressure. Statins are effective in preventing further cardiovascular disease in people with a history of cardiovascular disease. As the event rate is higher in men than in women, the decrease in events is more easily seen in men than women. In those at risk, but without a history of cardiovascular disease (primary prevention), statins decrease the risk of death and combined fatal and non-fatal cardiovascular disease. The benefit, however, is small. A United States guideline recommends statins in those who have a 12% or greater
Statin Drugs May Cut Risk of Kidney Trouble After Surgery [SEP] Atherosclerosis // the most success, adopting more aggressive combination treatment strategies taken on a daily basis and indefinitely has generally produced better results, both before and especially after people are symptomatic. The group of medications referred to as statins are widely prescribed for treating atherosclerosis. They have shown benefit in reducing cardiovascular disease and mortality in those with high cholesterol with few side effects. These data are primarily in middle-age men and the conclusions are less clear for women and people over the age of 70. When atherosclerosis has become severe and caused irreversible ischemia, such as tissue loss in the case
Statin Drugs May Cut Risk of Kidney Trouble After Surgery [SEP] Statin // Statin Statins, also known as HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors, are a class of lipid-lowering medications. Statins have been found to reduce cardiovascular disease and mortality in those who are at high risk of cardiovascular disease. The evidence is strong that statins are effective for treating cardiovascular disease in the early stages of the disease (secondary prevention) and in those at elevated risk but without cardiovascular disease (primary prevention). Side effects of statins include muscle pain, increased risk of diabetes mellitus, and abnormalities in liver enzyme tests. Additionally, they have rare but severe adverse effects, particularly muscle damage. They inhibit the enzyme
A year on, Indian anti-Vedanta protesters say still await justice. [SEP] Murder of Swami Lakshmanananda // on 1 October 2013, the same court also convicted a Maoist leader from Andhra Pradesh for the same crime. Six days later the same court set free five non-Christians who were being tried for burning of a christian house in the riots following the murder. Sajan George, president of Global Council of Indian Christians alleged that the court is biased against the christian minority. The defence lawyer, S.K. Padhi said that the ruling would be appealed against in the Odisha High Court. Murder of Swami Lakshmanananda Swami Lakshmanananda Saraswati and four of his disciples were murdered on August 23, 2008
A year on, Indian anti-Vedanta protesters say still await justice. [SEP] The Calcutta Quran Petition // were trying to storm the office of India's High Commission. Other riots followed in Kashmir and Bihar. After the case was closed, the Chief Minister of Jammu and Kashmir, during a mass rally in Srinagar, demanded action against Justice Padma Khastgir who permitted the petition to be filed. During this mass rally, one person was killed and others injured. A "hartal" (strike) against the interference in Muslim personal law was observed during which all shops and colleges were closed. On August 31, 1987 Chandmal Chopra was arrested by the police and kept in police custody until September 8 for publishing
A year on, Indian anti-Vedanta protesters say still await justice. [SEP] 1997 Ramabai killings // 2011, the protesters who had been arrested for setting the bus on fire were acquitted, with the court finding that they had not been present during the incident. In response to allegations received from the United Nations Special Rapporteur on Contemporary Forms of Racism, Racial Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related Intolerance, the government of India issued a statement: Indian documentary film-maker Anand Patwardhan, a friend of Vilas Ghogre, created a documentary based on the incident, entitled "Jai Bhim Comrade". Patwardhan stated that the filming took 14 years because he was waiting for the accused policemen to be jailed, and the residents
A year on, Indian anti-Vedanta protesters say still await justice. [SEP] 2011 Indian anti-corruption movement // planned for several days. The police said Ramdev had been informed shortly beforehand that permission to continue his agitation had been cancelled. By that time, over 5000 police officers had been prepared for action. There was an allegation that CCTV footage of the raid was missing. On 6 June, the National Human Rights Commission of India requested that reports of the events be provided within two weeks by the Union Home Secretary, Delhi Chief Secretary and the Delhi City Commissioner of Police. Hazare responded to the events by holding a one-day hunger strike. Protests were held in many parts of
A year on, Indian anti-Vedanta protesters say still await justice. [SEP] Indian People's Tribunal // of the Vishva Hindu Parishad. The fax said the tribunal was a group of "leftists, fellow travellers and Hindu baiters". It went on "The inclusion of an NRI well-known for anti-Hindu activities in the US suggests foreign funds from sources bent on destabilising the country". Chatterji alleged that Hindu nationalist activists threatened to rape tribunal members and to parade them naked in the streets. K.K. Usha and fellow tribunal member R.A. Mehta, a former Acting Chief Justice of the High Court of Gujarat, called the incident "shocking, outrageous and highly deplorable". The tribunal conducted its investigation for almost twenty months
A year on, Indian anti-Vedanta protesters say still await justice. [SEP] 29 September 2008 western India bombings // has even demanded that there should be a proper inquiry and ATS should come out with an evidence and not talk without any basis. They don't have any proof against any ABVP activist." After the arrest of three Hindus, a Hindu group, Sri Ram Sena (SRS), offered legal assistance to the accused . The SRS said the three accused were being made "political victims" by the Congress to hide its own inadequacies . General secretary Binay Singh said: "The Maharashtra government is raking up the Malegaon blast issue to divert attention from the hooliganism of Raj Thackeray while in the
A year on, Indian anti-Vedanta protesters say still await justice. [SEP] Vedanta Limited // matters turned rough one day and the police opened fire on demonstrators. The firing killed 13 people and protesters turned violent, burning vehicles and structures. Residents say the copper smelter is causing environmental damage. Subsequent to the firing, the Tamil Nadu chief minister Palaniswami ordered a judicial inquiry into the shootings but defended the police response. The registered office and corporate office of Vedanta Limited are based in Mumbai. The company has offices in New Delhi, NCR as well as across its operations in the country. Vedanta Limited Vedanta Limited, formerly known as Sesa Sterlite/Sesa Goa Limited, is a mining
A year on, Indian anti-Vedanta protesters say still await justice. [SEP] Waytha Moorthy Ponnusamy // Rao because "the prosecution had failed to adhere to Zunaidah's (the judge) instructions on Friday to attach the Tamil transcripts of the speeches to the charge sheet". The movement grew in numbers and on 25 November 2007, approximately 100,000 ethnic Indians joined HINDRAF in a peaceful public rally based on Mahatma Gandhi's non-violent protest to highlight the plight of the marginalised Indian community in Malaysia. The government used tear gas and chemical-laced water at the protestors. Despite their peaceful manner, many participants were arrested by the authorities. Waytha Moorthy left Malaysia on 26 November 2007 to obtain international support for
A year on, Indian anti-Vedanta protesters say still await justice. [SEP] K. K. Usha // in Trivandrum. Between January 2005 and October 2006, K. K. Usha headed an enquiry by the Indian People's Tribunal (IPT) to investigate the communal situation in Orissa. Activists from the Sangh Parivar disrupted the final hearing in Bhubaneswar. Angana P. Chatterji, a member of the tribunal, alleged that Hindu nationalist activists threatened to rape tribunal members and to parade them naked in the streets. K. K. Usha and fellow tribunal member R.A. Mehta, a former Acting Chief Justice of the High Court of Gujarat, called the incident "shocking, outrageous and highly deplorable". In December 2011, K. K. Usha was a
A year on, Indian anti-Vedanta protesters say still await justice. [SEP] Movement against Intimidation, Threat and Revenge against Activists // a second attack on Sumaira Abdulali and journalist Viju B at Mahad, an attack on Citispace Convenor Nayana Kathpalia in Mumbai, an attack on AGNI Co ordinator Jamesh John in Mumbai, an attack on Citispace Trustee H S D’Lima in Mumbai, the murder of activist Shehla Masood in Bhopal, the murder of Right to Information activist Satish Shetty in Pune, the murder of journalist J Dey in Mumbai, the murder of anti-superstition activist Narendra Dabholkar in Pune. In 2010, following an attack on Citispace Convenor Nayana Kathpalia who had filed public interest litigation in the Bombay High Court and the
Choose Omega-3s from fish over flax for cancer prevention, study finds [SEP] Fish oil // aggressive prostate cancer with higher blood levels of combined EPA and DHA. Some evidence indicated an association between high blood levels of omega-3 fatty acids and an increased prostate cancer risk. Fish oil supplement studies have failed to support claims of preventing heart attacks or strokes. Earlier, in 2007, the American Heart Association had recommended the consumption of 1 gram of fish oil daily, preferably by eating fish, for patients with coronary artery disease, but cautioned pregnant and nursing women to avoid eating fish with high potential for mercury contaminants including mackerel, shark, and swordfish. (Optimal dosage was related to
Choose Omega-3s from fish over flax for cancer prevention, study finds [SEP] Omega-3 fatty acid // for products that contain at least 250 mg EPA + DHA. The report did not address the issue of people with pre-existing heart disease. The World Health Organization recommends regular fish consumption (1-2 servings per week, equivalent to 200 to 500 mg/day EPA + DHA) as protective against coronary heart disease and ischaemic stroke. Heavy metal poisoning by the body's accumulation of traces of heavy metals, in particular mercury, lead, nickel, arsenic, and cadmium, is a possible risk from consuming fish oil supplements. Also, other contaminants (PCBs, furans, dioxins, and PBDEs) might be found, especially in less-refined fish oil supplements.
Choose Omega-3s from fish over flax for cancer prevention, study finds [SEP] Prostate cancer // consumption of the Western diet. There is little if any evidence to support an association between trans fat, saturated fat, and carbohydrate intake and risk of prostate cancer. Evidence regarding the role of omega-3 fatty acids in preventing prostate cancer does not suggest that they reduce the risk of prostate cancer, although additional research is needed. Vitamin supplements appear to have no effect and some may increase the risk. High calcium intake has been linked to advanced prostate cancer. Consuming fish may lower prostate cancer deaths but does not appear to affect its occurrence. Some evidence supports lower rates of
Choose Omega-3s from fish over flax for cancer prevention, study finds [SEP] Fish oil // EPA and DHA. The Guidelines were revised again for 2015-2020; included is a recommendation that adults consume at least eight ounces of a variety of types of fish per week, equating to at least 250 mg/day of EPA + DHA. The Food and Drug Administration recommends not exceeding 3 grams per day of EPA + DHA from all sources, with no more than 2 grams per day from dietary supplements. The effect of fish oil consumption on prostate cancer is controversial, as one study showed decreased risk with higher blood levels of DPA, whereas another reported increased risk of more
Choose Omega-3s from fish over flax for cancer prevention, study finds [SEP] Omega-3 fatty acid // and DHA include fish, fish oils, eggs from chickens fed EPA and DHA, squid oils, and krill oil. Dietary supplementation with omega−3 fatty acids does not appear to affect the risk of death, cancer or heart disease. Furthermore, fish oil supplement studies have failed to support claims of preventing heart attacks or strokes or any vascular disease outcomes. Omega−3 fatty acids are important for normal metabolism. Mammals are unable to synthesize omega−3 fatty acids, but can obtain the shorter-chain omega−3 fatty acid ALA (18 carbons and 3 double bonds) through diet and use it to form the more important long-chain
Choose Omega-3s from fish over flax for cancer prevention, study finds [SEP] Omega-3 fatty acid // due to their cardiovascular benefits: individuals with no history of coronary heart disease or myocardial infarction should consume oily fish two times per week; and "Treatment is reasonable" for those having been diagnosed with coronary heart disease. For the latter the AHA does not recommend a specific amount of EPA + DHA, although it notes that most trials were at or close to 1000 mg/day. The benefit appears to be on the order of a 9% decrease in relative risk. The European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) approved a claim "EPA and DHA contributes to the normal function of the heart"
Choose Omega-3s from fish over flax for cancer prevention, study finds [SEP] Canadian health claims for food // help prevent or treat cancer and that more studies need to be done. A study published in the Journal of the National Cancer Institute was done on 1300 prostate cancer patients. Overall the risk of prostate cancer was unaffected by receiving dietary supplemental antioxidants. However, the results in smokers show that an increase in Vitamin E and B-carotene are statistically significant and are associated with reduced risk of the disease. Lycopene is a strong antioxidant found in large quantities in tomatoes as well as other red fruits and vegetables. It has recently been a subject of great research concerning many
Choose Omega-3s from fish over flax for cancer prevention, study finds [SEP] Omega-3 fatty acid // A 2018 meta-analysis found no support that daily intake of one gram of omega-3 fatty acid in individuals with a history of coronary heart disease prevents fatal coronary heart disease, nonfatal myocardial infarction or any other vascular event. However, omega−3 fatty acid supplementation greater than one gram daily for at least a year may be protective against cardiac death, sudden death, and myocardial infarction in people who have a history of cardiovascular disease. No protective effect against the development of stroke or all-cause mortality was seen in this population. Eating a diet high in fish that contain long chain omega−3
Choose Omega-3s from fish over flax for cancer prevention, study finds [SEP] Omega-3 fatty acid // fatty acids has an effect on different cancers. The effect of consumption on prostate cancer is not conclusive. There is a decreased risk with higher blood levels of DPA, but an increased risk of more aggressive prostate cancer was shown with higher blood levels of combined EPA and DHA. In people with advanced cancer and cachexia, omega−3 fatty acids supplements may be of benefit, improving appetite, weight, and quality of life. Evidence in the population generally does not support a beneficial role for omega−3 fatty acid supplementation in preventing cardiovascular disease (including myocardial infarction and sudden cardiac death) or stroke.
Choose Omega-3s from fish over flax for cancer prevention, study finds [SEP] Dietary supplement // affect the risk of death, cancer or heart disease. Furthermore, studies of fish oil supplements have failed to support claims of preventing heart attacks or strokes. In 2017, the American Heart Association issued a science advisory stating that it could not recommend use of omega-3 fish oil supplements for primary prevention of cardiovascular disease or stroke, although it reaffirmed supplementation for people who have a history of coronary heart disease. Dietary supplements can be manufactured using intact sources or extracts from plants, animals, algae, fungi or lichens, including such examples as ginkgo biloba, curcumin, cranberry, St. John’s wort, ginseng, resveratrol,
Study: Stroke deaths higher where fried fish aplenty [SEP] Oily fish // and the presence of dementia symptoms. The conclusion was that people who ate fish at least once a week had a significantly lower risk of being diagnosed with dementia over a seven-year period. This study reinforced the Annals of Neurology findings. Because of the longer term, the BMJ study provided stronger evidence of a genuine protective effect. There was a possible confounding factor in that individuals with higher education have both a lower risk of dementia and higher consumption of fish. Consuming 200–400 g of oily fish twice per week may also help prevent sudden death due to myocardial infarction
Study: Stroke deaths higher where fried fish aplenty [SEP] Oily fish // help improve inflammatory conditions such as arthritis. A 1997 study published in "Annals of Neurology" followed 5,386 elderly participants in Rotterdam. It found that fish consumption decreased the risk of dementia. However, the 2.1-year average follow-up was less than the three years dementia commonly affects people prior to diagnosis. Thus, the study was unclear as to whether fish consumption protected against dementia, or if dementia prevented the participants from wanting more fish. French research published in 2002 in the "British Medical Journal" (BMJ) followed 1,674 elderly residents of southern France for seven years, studying their consumption of meat versus seafood
Study: Stroke deaths higher where fried fish aplenty [SEP] Egg as food // that consumption of up to 1 egg per day is unlikely to have substantial overall impact on the risk of CHD or stroke among healthy men and women." In a study of 4,000 people, scientists found that eating eggs increased blood levels of a metabolite promoting atherosclerosis, TMAO, and that this in turn caused significantly higher risk of heart attack and stroke after three years of follow-up. A 2007 study of nearly 10,000 adults demonstrated no correlation between moderate (six per week) egg consumption and cardiovascular disease or strokes, except in the subpopulation of diabetic patients who also presented an
Study: Stroke deaths higher where fried fish aplenty [SEP] Caerphilly Heart Disease Study // unexpected finding was that the men who had had the most active platelets in two tests, based on platelet rich plasma and whole blood, had the lowest subsequent risk of an incident ischaemic stroke. Detailed analyses of the dietary data identified a number of food items related to vascular disease risk. The consumption of fatty fish was associated with lower levels of blood lipids, and a reduction in vascular disease mortality was confirmed in a randomised trial. Milk consumption was found to be associated with a small reduction in the metabolic syndrome, and reductions in ischaemic heart disease, ischaemic stroke
Study: Stroke deaths higher where fried fish aplenty [SEP] Fried fish // Fried fish Fried fish refers to any fish or shellfish that has been prepared by frying. Often, the fish is covered in batter, or flour, or herbs and spices before being fried and served with a slice of lemon. Fish is fried in many parts of the world, and fried fish is an important food in many cuisines. For many cultures, fried fish is historically derived from "pescado frito", and the traditional fish and chips dish of England which it may have inspired. The latter remains a staple take-out dish of the UK and its former and present colonies. Fried
Study: Stroke deaths higher where fried fish aplenty [SEP] Pescetarianism // Western countries found that in comparison with regular meat-eaters, mortality from ischemic heart disease was 34% lower in pescetarians, 34% lower in ovo-lacto vegetarians, 26% lower in vegans and 20% lower in occasional meat-eaters. Concerns have been raised about consuming some fish varieties containing toxins such as mercury and PCBs, though it is possible to select fish that contain little or no mercury and moderate the consumption of mercury-containing fish. Pescetarianism (provided the fish is ruled kosher – i.e., fish with fins and scales, and usually caught without bloodshed, as well as having no worms or insects inside; cut with
Study: Stroke deaths higher where fried fish aplenty [SEP] Fish oil // aggressive prostate cancer with higher blood levels of combined EPA and DHA. Some evidence indicated an association between high blood levels of omega-3 fatty acids and an increased prostate cancer risk. Fish oil supplement studies have failed to support claims of preventing heart attacks or strokes. Earlier, in 2007, the American Heart Association had recommended the consumption of 1 gram of fish oil daily, preferably by eating fish, for patients with coronary artery disease, but cautioned pregnant and nursing women to avoid eating fish with high potential for mercury contaminants including mackerel, shark, and swordfish. (Optimal dosage was related to
Study: Stroke deaths higher where fried fish aplenty [SEP] Fish as food // consume fish that have been farmed. A 1999 metastudy combined data from five studies from western countries. The metastudy reported mortality ratios, where lower numbers indicated fewer deaths, for pescetarians to be 0.82, vegetarians to be 0.84, occasional meat eaters to be 0.84. Regular meat eaters and vegans shared the highest mortality ratio of 1.00. However, the "lower mortality was due largely to the relatively low prevalence of smoking in these [vegetarian] cohorts". Religious rites and rituals regarding food also tend to classify the birds of the air and the fish of the sea separately from land-bound mammals. Sea-bound mammals
Study: Stroke deaths higher where fried fish aplenty [SEP] Stroke // are 25% more likely to suffer strokes than women, yet 60% of deaths from stroke occur in women. Since women live longer, they are older on average when they have their strokes and thus more often killed. Some risk factors for stroke apply only to women. Primary among these are pregnancy, childbirth, menopause, and the treatment thereof (HRT). Episodes of stroke and familial stroke have been reported from the 2nd millennium BC onward in ancient Mesopotamia and Persia. Hippocrates (460 to 370 BC) was first to describe the phenomenon of sudden paralysis that is often associated with ischemia. Apoplexy, from
Study: Stroke deaths higher where fried fish aplenty [SEP] Egg as food // increased risk of total mortality" in males, whereas among males with diabetes, "any egg consumption is associated with an increased risk of all-cause mortality and there was suggestive evidence for an increased risk of myocardial infarction and stroke". A 2013 meta-analysis found no association between egg consumption and heart disease or stroke. A 2013 systematic review and meta-analysis found no association between egg consumption and cardiovascular disease or cardiovascular disease mortality, but did find egg consumption of more than once daily increased cardiovascular disease risk 1.69-fold in those with type 2 diabetes mellitus when compared to type 2 diabetics who
Blue-green algae (known scientifically as cyanobacteria) are capable of poisoning dogs and other pets. [SEP] Environmental toxicology // or blue-green algae, are photosynthetic bacteria. They grow in many types of water. Their rapid growth ("bloom") is related to high water temperature as well as eutrophication (resulting from enrichment with minerals and nutrients often due to runoff from the land that induces excessive growth of these algae). Many genera of cyanobacteria produce several toxins. Cyanotoxins can be dermatotoxic, neurotoxic, and hepatotoxic, though death related to their exposure is rare. Cyanotoxins and their non-toxic components can cause allergic reactions, but this is poorly understood. Despite their known toxicities, developing a specific biomarker of exposure has been difficult because of the
Blue-green algae (known scientifically as cyanobacteria) are capable of poisoning dogs and other pets. [SEP] Harmful algal bloom // such as microcystins. Although blue-green or other algae do not usually pose a direct threat to health, the toxins (poisons) which they produce are considered dangerous to humans, land animals, sea mammals, birds and fish when the toxins are ingested. The toxins are neurotoxins which destroy nerve tissue which can affect the nervous system, brain, and liver, and can lead to death. Tests have shown some toxins near blooms can be in the air and thereby be inhaled, which could affect health. There is no treatment available for animals, including livestock cattle, if they drink from algal blooms where such
Blue-green algae (known scientifically as cyanobacteria) are capable of poisoning dogs and other pets. [SEP] Cyanotoxin // Cyanotoxin Cyanotoxins are toxins produced by bacteria called cyanobacteria (also known as blue-green algae). Cyanobacteria are found almost everywhere, but particularly in lakes and in the ocean where, under high concentration of phosphorus conditions, they reproduce exponentially to form blooms. Blooming cyanobacteria can produce cyanotoxins in such concentrations that they poison and even kill animals and humans. Cyanotoxins can also accumulate in other animals such as fish and shellfish, and cause poisonings such as shellfish poisoning. Among cyanotoxins are some of the most powerful natural poisons known, including poisons which can cause rapid death by respiratory failure. The toxins include
Blue-green algae (known scientifically as cyanobacteria) are capable of poisoning dogs and other pets. [SEP] Florida Bay // the bay bottom leads to anoxia and in turn, algal blooms. Blue-green algae causes numerous severe health consequences for the marine ecosystem as well surrounding human populations. Blooms result in reduced dissolved oxygen concentrations, alterations in aquatic food webs, algal scum lining the shores, the production of compounds that cause distasteful drinking water and fish flesh, and the production of toxins severe enough to poison aquatic as well as terrestrial organisms. Blooms have been reported throughout the continental United States, and resulting cyanotoxins have been associated with human and animal illness and death in at least 43 states. Most cyanobacteria
Blue-green algae (known scientifically as cyanobacteria) are capable of poisoning dogs and other pets. [SEP] Cyanotoxin // potent neurotoxins, hepatotoxins, cytotoxins, and endotoxins. Despite the similarity in name, they are not cyanides. Recreational exposure to cyanobacteria can result in gastro-intestinal and hay fever symptoms or pruritic skin rashes. Exposure to the cyanobacteria neurotoxin BMAA may be an environmental cause of neurodegenerative diseases such as ALS, Parkinson's Disease and Alzheimer's Disease. There is also an interest in the military potential of biological neurotoxins such as cyanotoxins, which "have gained increasing significance as potential candidates for weaponization." The first published report that blue-green algae or cyanobacteria could have lethal effects appeared in "Nature" in 1878. George Francis described the
Blue-green algae (known scientifically as cyanobacteria) are capable of poisoning dogs and other pets. [SEP] St. Lucie River // the river experienced the flourishing of extensive algae blooms, along with Lake Okeechobee and the Caloosahatchee River. The cyanobacteria, or blue-green algae, causes numerous severe health consequences for the marine ecosystem as well surrounding human populations. Blooms result in reduced dissolved oxygen concentrations, alterations in aquatic food webs, algal scum lining the shores, the production of compounds that cause distasteful drinking water and fish flesh, and the production of toxins severe enough to poison aquatic as well as terrestrial organisms. Blooms have been reported throughout the continental United States, and resulting cyanotoxins have been associated with human and animal illness
Blue-green algae (known scientifically as cyanobacteria) are capable of poisoning dogs and other pets. [SEP] Gillian McKeith // your blood" is erroneous as sunlight usually is absent inside the human bowel. McKeith's advice in her book "Miracle Superfood: Wild Blue-Green Algae" is also disputed. Jan Krokowski of the Scottish Environment Protection Agency wrote a letter to "New Scientist", as a private individual, saying "blue-green algae—properly called cyanobacteria—are able to produce a range of very powerful toxins, which pose health hazards to humans and animals and can result in illness and death." In response to the criticism, McKeith argues: "I am on a crusade to change the nation and fortunately, or unfortunately, that is going to put me in
Blue-green algae (known scientifically as cyanobacteria) are capable of poisoning dogs and other pets. [SEP] Harmful algal bloom // fish and other organisms. Harmful algal blooms in freshwater lakes and rivers, or at estuaries, where rivers flow into the ocean, are caused by cyanobacteria, also known as "blue-green algae". They can produce hazardous toxins, such as microcystins, a neurotoxin which destroys nerve tissue of mammals. In high enough concentrations, water treatment plants may be unable to remove the toxin and will advise residents to avoid drinking tap water, as happened in Toledo, Ohio in August 2014. They also cause harm by blocking the sunlight or by using up the oxygen needed by fish or plant life, which can lead
Blue-green algae (known scientifically as cyanobacteria) are capable of poisoning dogs and other pets. [SEP] Cyanotoxin // species of other algae taxa can also cause HABs (diatoms, flagellates, haptophytes and raphidophytes). Marine dinoflagellate species are often toxic, but freshwater species are not known to be toxic. Neither are diatoms known to be toxic, at least to humans. In freshwater ecosystems, algal blooms are most commonly caused by high levels of nutrients (eutrophication). The blooms can look like foam, scum or mats or like paint floating on the surface of the water, but they are not always visible. Nor are the blooms always green; they can be blue, and some cyanobacteria species are coloured brownish-red. The water can
Blue-green algae (known scientifically as cyanobacteria) are capable of poisoning dogs and other pets. [SEP] Cyanotoxin // their energy through photosynthesis. The prefix "cyan" comes from the Greek κύανoς meaning "a dark blue substance", and usually indicates any of a number of colours in the blue/green range of the spectrum. Cyanobacteria are commonly referred to as "blue-green algae". Traditionally they were thought of as a form of algae, and were introduced as such in older textbooks. However modern sources tend to regard this as outdated; they are now considered to be more closely related to bacteria, and the term for true "algae" is restricted to eukaryotic organisms. Like true algae, cyanobacteria are photosynthetic and contain photosynthetic pigments,
As bank president, Alex Sink eliminated thousands of Florida jobs while taking over $8 million in salary and bonuses. [SEP] Alex Sink // Alex Sink Adelaide Alexander Sink (born June 5, 1948) is an American politician and financier. A member of the Democratic Party, Sink was the Chief Financial Officer for the state of Florida and treasurer on the board of trustees of the Florida State Board of Administration. She was the Democratic nominee for Governor of Florida and faced Republican nominee Rick Scott in the 2010 Florida gubernatorial election, losing to Scott by a 1% margin. Sink was the unsuccessful Democratic candidate in the special election, losing to Republican David Jolly on March 11, 2014, in a race to fill the vacancy
As bank president, Alex Sink eliminated thousands of Florida jobs while taking over $8 million in salary and bonuses. [SEP] Alex Sink // was the Democratic candidate for Florida's office of Chief Financial Officer in 2006. She defeated Republican Tom Lee 53.5 percent to 46.5 percent. She also was the first Democrat elected to the state Cabinet since 1998. On August 30, 2010, Sink sent letters to the Florida Supreme Court and Florida Department of Management Services that preliminary findings warranted an audit via her DFS, Bureau of Auditing for excessive spending on the First District Court of Appeal of Florida courthouse, referred to as the "Taj Mahal" by judges around Florida as their districts are facing budget cuts. The CFO's office states
As bank president, Alex Sink eliminated thousands of Florida jobs while taking over $8 million in salary and bonuses. [SEP] Alex Sink // making them the only married American couple to both run unsuccessfully in gubernatorial races. They have a son, Bert, and a daughter, Lexi. Sink is a former President of Florida Operations at NationsBank, now Bank of America. She was appointed by former Governor Lawton Chiles to the Commission on Government Accountability to the People, and also served on Chiles' Commission on Education. She was vice-chair of Florida TaxWatch. Sink has also served with the Florida Chapter of the Nature Conservancy, the Beth El Farm Workers Ministry, and as Chairman of the Board of the United Way of Hillsborough County. Sink
As bank president, Alex Sink eliminated thousands of Florida jobs while taking over $8 million in salary and bonuses. [SEP] Bill McBride (politician) // and had "become known as a reputable, but flabby, operation, long on underproductive partners and comparatively short on workhorse associates." McBride was the father of two children with his wife, Adelaide "Alex" Sink, a former statewide president for NationsBank (now Bank of America), former Chief Financial Officer of Florida, and 2010 Democratic nominee for Governor of Florida. Since 2003, Bill McBride was partner with the law firm of Barnett, Bolt, Kirkwood, Long & McBride in Tampa. He was also chair of the board of the investment banking firm Hyde Park Capital Partners, LLC, with offices in Tampa and Charlotte, North
As bank president, Alex Sink eliminated thousands of Florida jobs while taking over $8 million in salary and bonuses. [SEP] Alex Sink // that money may have been misused and as much as $16 million may have been spent in a financial raid on the state's Workers' Compensation Trust Fund. A $33.5 million bond for construction was attached to a transportation bill and passed on last day of the 2007 legislative session. There is an ongoing investigation by the CFO's office. Heading into the 2010 cycle, Sink was mentioned as a possible candidate for the U.S. Senate or for Governor of Florida. In 2008, Sink stated that she would "assess the landscape after the first of the year, and make a decision then."
As bank president, Alex Sink eliminated thousands of Florida jobs while taking over $8 million in salary and bonuses. [SEP] Chief Financial Officer of Florida // a member of the Cabinet. Tom Gallagher was the first state CFO and a former Treasurer/Insurance Commissioner/Fire Marshal. Gallagher retired from the position in 2006 and Alex Sink (D), a Florida business executive and the wife of former Florida gubernatorial candidate Bill McBride, was elected on November 7, 2006. Alex Sink launched an unsuccessful campaign for governor in 2010, and was succeeded by Jeff Atwater. Chief Financial Officer of Florida The Chief Financial Officer of Florida is a statewide constitutional officer of Florida. The office was created in 2002 following the 1998 reforms of the Florida Cabinet. The CFO is
As bank president, Alex Sink eliminated thousands of Florida jobs while taking over $8 million in salary and bonuses. [SEP] Alex Sink // district twice, and Sink had carried the district in her gubernatorial campaign against Scott. The race was close, with Sink taking 46.6 percent of the vote to Jolly's 48.4 percent. Sink supported the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (H.R. 3020) passed by the United States Congress and enacted on March 30, 2010. Alex Sink believes in the placement of children in a home where it is in the best interests of children regardless of gender preference. She addressed a group of 300 gay and lesbian advocates at the Museum of Art Fort Lauderdale. She said, "We need a system
As bank president, Alex Sink eliminated thousands of Florida jobs while taking over $8 million in salary and bonuses. [SEP] Michael E. Arth // staged a photo opportunity after Scott's speech and flummoxed Scott by informing him that he (Arth) was also a gubernatorial candidate. Scott quickly ducked out of the building. Scott later won the Republican primary after spending an estimated $50 million of his own money. After the primaries, Alex Sink challenged Rick Scott to a series of five debates but, at an Orlando rally on August 28, brushed off a direct face-to-face challenge from Arth to debate. Eric Jotkoff, the Florida Democratic Party communications director, who had orchestrated attempts to freeze Arth out of the race, had Arth escorted out of
As bank president, Alex Sink eliminated thousands of Florida jobs while taking over $8 million in salary and bonuses. [SEP] Michael E. Arth // the rally by a security guard. Rick Scott, for his part, ignored requests to debate from both candidates. Arth was so frustrated by the unwillingness of the major candidates to face off for the sake of public scrutiny that he proposed that debates among all candidates should be a condition of running for office. By the October 25, 2010 Tampa debate between Scott and Sink, Scott had spent $60 million of his own money on the campaign compared to Sink's $28 million. At the same debate, Arth and his running mate, Al Krulick, posed with standup cutouts of Alex Sink
As bank president, Alex Sink eliminated thousands of Florida jobs while taking over $8 million in salary and bonuses. [SEP] Alex Sink // in September. On October 25, 2010, during a televised debate, Sink read a text message sent to her make up artist's cellular phone from a campaign official instructing Sink as to debate strategy, contrary to the rules of the debate. Sink fired the adviser who sent the text message. After a close election, Sink conceded, giving victory to Scott. He carried 49% of the vote, and she 48%. Republican Bill Young, who had represented the 13th District and its predecessors since 1971, died on October 18, 2013. On October 30, Sink told the "Tampa Bay Times" that she would run
Say Oregon Reps. Peter DeFazio and Earl Blumenauer are "socialists who are openly serving in the U.S. Congress. [SEP] 2008 United States House of Representatives elections in Oregon // Incumbent Democrat Earl Blumenauer has represented Oregon's 3rd congressional district since 1996 and was the Democratic nominee in 2008, defeating TV co-host John Sweeney and retired utility worker and peace activist Joseph "Lone Vet" Walsh in the primary. In the general election, he faced Republican Delia Lopez, a real estate investor, and Pacific Green Party candidate Michael Meo. Incumbent Democrat Peter DeFazio has represented Oregon's 4th congressional district since 1986 and was unopposed for the Democratic nomination in 2008. He was being challenged in the general election by Constitution Party member Jaynee Germond and Pacific Green Mike Beilstein, a research
Say Oregon Reps. Peter DeFazio and Earl Blumenauer are "socialists who are openly serving in the U.S. Congress. [SEP] Peter DeFazio // Party ! Party ! Votes ! ! Other ! Peter DeFazio Peter Anthony DeFazio (born May 27, 1947) is the U.S. Representative for , serving since 1987. He is a member of the Democratic Party. The district includes Eugene, Springfield, Roseburg, Coos Bay, Florence, and part of Corvallis. He is the dean of Oregon's House of Representatives delegation and a founder of the Congressional Progressive Caucus. A native of Massachusetts and a veteran of the United States Air Force Reserves, he previously served as a county commissioner in Lane County, Oregon. DeFazio was born in 1947 in Needham, Massachusetts, a
Say Oregon Reps. Peter DeFazio and Earl Blumenauer are "socialists who are openly serving in the U.S. Congress. [SEP] 2006 United States House of Representatives elections in Oregon // Portland and its suburbs in Clackamas County. Blumenauer was challenged by Republican Bruce Broussard and Constitution Party candidate David Brownlow. As expected, Blumenauer was elected to another term by the largest margin of victory of any Oregon Congressman. This liberal-leaning district, based in the southern Pacific coastline of Oregon and including Eugene, Springfield, and Coos Bay, has the potential for competitive elections. However, incumbent Democratic Congressman Peter DeFazio has represented the district for twenty years and has built up a repertoire among its denizens. Seeking an eleventh term, DeFazio crushed Republican opponent Jim Feldkamp to win. This district, the most
Say Oregon Reps. Peter DeFazio and Earl Blumenauer are "socialists who are openly serving in the U.S. Congress. [SEP] Peter DeFazio // Peter DeFazio Peter Anthony DeFazio (born May 27, 1947) is the U.S. Representative for , serving since 1987. He is a member of the Democratic Party. The district includes Eugene, Springfield, Roseburg, Coos Bay, Florence, and part of Corvallis. He is the dean of Oregon's House of Representatives delegation and a founder of the Congressional Progressive Caucus. A native of Massachusetts and a veteran of the United States Air Force Reserves, he previously served as a county commissioner in Lane County, Oregon. DeFazio was born in 1947 in Needham, Massachusetts, a suburb of Boston. He credits his great-uncle with shaping
Say Oregon Reps. Peter DeFazio and Earl Blumenauer are "socialists who are openly serving in the U.S. Congress. [SEP] Peter DeFazio // his politics; as a boy, that great-uncle almost never said "Republican" without including "bastard" at the end. He served in the United States Air Force Reserves from 1967 to 1971. He received a Bachelor of Arts degree from Tufts University in 1969 and a Master of Arts degree from the University of Oregon in 1977. From 1977 to 1982, DeFazio worked as an aide for U.S. Representative Jim Weaver. He was elected as a Lane County Commissioner in 1983 and served as chairman from 1985 to 1986. In 1986, DeFazio ran for Oregon's 4th congressional district, vacated by retiring incumbent
Say Oregon Reps. Peter DeFazio and Earl Blumenauer are "socialists who are openly serving in the U.S. Congress. [SEP] 2006 United States House of Representatives elections in Oregon // in the general election to win another term in Congress. In this heavily conservative, eastern Oregon-based district, which is one of the largest districts in the country, incumbent Republican Congressman Greg Walden ran for a fourth term. Democratic candidate Carol Voisin, a professor at Southern Oregon University, faced uphill odds against Walden, and ultimately, she was defeated in a landslide election, along with Constitution Party candidate Jack Brown. Democratic Congressman Earl Blumenauer, who has served in Congress since previous Congressman Ron Wyden was elected to the Senate in 1996, sought a sixth term in this staunchly liberal district based in
Say Oregon Reps. Peter DeFazio and Earl Blumenauer are "socialists who are openly serving in the U.S. Congress. [SEP] Earl Blumenauer // in 1996 in a special election to fill the vacancy caused by the election of then-U.S. Representative Ron Wyden to the U.S. Senate. He received 69% of the vote, defeating Republican Mark Brunelle. He was elected to a full term that November, and has been re-elected eight more times by wide margins in what has long been the most Democratic district in Oregon. He was most recently reelected in 2014, winning 72.3% of the vote over Republican James Buchal, who won 19.6%. Blumenauer served as Oregon campaign chair for both John Kerry's and Barack Obama's presidential campaigns. In Congress, Blumenauer
Say Oregon Reps. Peter DeFazio and Earl Blumenauer are "socialists who are openly serving in the U.S. Congress. [SEP] Peter DeFazio // a federal prison in Sheridan, Oregon, under the Trump administration’s “zero-tolerance policy” to make free telephone calls to arrange legal representation. He voted against the Telecommunications Act of 1996—one of only 16 congressmen to do so. DeFazio particularly objected to a provision that would have deregulated the cable television industry. According to DeFazio, many of his fellow Democratic congressmen later realized "they were idiots" for backing the bill. He was also the only Oregonian who voted against both NAFTA and GATT. In 1995, he challenged President Bill Clinton's stance on Bosnia, claiming Clinton and his Cabinet did not make a
Say Oregon Reps. Peter DeFazio and Earl Blumenauer are "socialists who are openly serving in the U.S. Congress. [SEP] 2014 United States House of Representatives elections in Oregon // Walden for a primary challenge. The 3rd district most of Multnomah County, including Portland east of the Willamette River, Gresham and Troutdale. The incumbent is Democrat Earl Blumenauer, who has represented the district since 1996. He was re-elected with 75% of the vote in 2012 and the district has a PVI of D+22. The 4th district the southern half of Oregon's coastal counties, including Coos, Curry, Douglas, Lane and Linn counties and most of Benton and Josephine counties. The incumbent is Democrat Peter DeFazio, who has represented the district since 1987. He was re-elected with 59% of the vote in
Say Oregon Reps. Peter DeFazio and Earl Blumenauer are "socialists who are openly serving in the U.S. Congress. [SEP] Earl Blumenauer // Earl Blumenauer Earl Blumenauer (; born August 16, 1948) is the U.S. Representative for , serving since 1996. He is a member of the Democratic Party. The district includes most of Portland east of the Willamette River. He previously spent over 20 years as a public official in Portland, including serving on the Portland City Council from 1987 to 1996. Blumenauer was born in Portland on August 16, 1948. In 1966, he graduated from Centennial High School on the eastside of Portland and then enrolled at Lewis & Clark College in the southwest part of the city. He majored in
China's blood donations dry up as coronavirus outbreak quells giving. [SEP] Health in China // could give blood up to 11 times a day. The disaster was only recognized in 2000 and found out abroad in 2001. Pensioner Gao Yaojie sold her house to deliver data leaflets of HIV to people, while officials tried to prevent her. Some local officials and politicians were involved in the blood sale. In 2003 only 2.6% of Chinese knew that a condom could protect from AIDS. China blocked by police protest over ineffective drug treatments, cancelled meetings on HIV groups, closured office of the AIDS organization, and detained or put under house arrest prominent AIDS activists such as 2005
China's blood donations dry up as coronavirus outbreak quells giving. [SEP] HIV/AIDS in China // for leaking an internal government report on the Henan AIDS crisis. In early December 2006, it was reported that a group of 19 people who contracted HIV from tainted blood transfusions at a hospital in the northeastern province of Heilongjiang were awarded 20 million yuan (US$2.5 million) in compensation. The landmark case involves the largest single group stricken by HIV in China. Eighteen of the victims will receive a one-off payment of $25,500 from the hospital and additional monthly payments of $380. Payment will go to the family of the one victim who has already died from AIDS. The process
China's blood donations dry up as coronavirus outbreak quells giving. [SEP] Gao Yaojie // HIV virus during the 1990s among the impoverished rural population who sold blood at unsanitary Henan provincial and private collection centers where blood was collected from paid blood donors into a central tank, the plasma separated out, and the remainder of the blood pumped back from the central tank into the donors of the same blood type. Gao is well known in China and worldwide for her AIDS prevention work in during the HIV epidemic in Henan, and for advocating much greater attention to people suffering from AIDS and children orphaned by AIDS. Gao is well known for her writings
China's blood donations dry up as coronavirus outbreak quells giving. [SEP] HIV/AIDS in China // the needs of former plasma donors in the early stages of the epidemic. Moreover, the distribution of HIV in China is not even, and is concentrated in areas with high drug use (e.g., Yunnan, Guangxi, Xinjiang, and Sichuan) and in areas where people were infected through unsafe blood or plasma donation (e.g., Henan, Anhui, Hebei, Shanxi, and Hubei). The number of cases ranges dramatically between provinces, with, for example, just 20 cases reported from Tibet but well over 40,000 in neighboring Yunnan. In provinces with an extremely low prevalence, it can be difficult for officials to see the need for
China's blood donations dry up as coronavirus outbreak quells giving. [SEP] HIV/AIDS in China // regulations on the collection and management of blood and blood products, provision of HIV testing, prevention, and care for donors in the local areas was slower. Progress was stimulated by the media's attention to the plight of the infected plasma donors. Since these initial reports, the HIV/AIDS situation in China has received much attention from the local and international media. Chinese-American director Ruby Yang has recently made a documentary about AIDS in rural China, which premiered on 14 June 2006, entitled "The Blood of Yingzhou District". An abridged version of Robert Bilheimer's acclaimed US-made 2003 documentary "A Closer Walk" was
China's blood donations dry up as coronavirus outbreak quells giving. [SEP] Wang Keqin // exposing the "stranglehold" that Chinese taxi companies have on their drivers. This influenced Premier Wen Jiabao to order a cleanup of the taxi industry. On November 30, 2005, Wang published a story about an AIDS epidemic in the Henan province caused by poor sterilization of needles when collecting paid blood donations. On March 8, 2010, he and a student were physically and verbally attacked while trying to visit Yuan Weijing, wife of imprisoned civil and political rights activist Chen Guangcheng. As a result, Reporters Without Borders urged the Shandong provincial government to investigate the incident and stop it from reoccurring
China's blood donations dry up as coronavirus outbreak quells giving. [SEP] Kilgour–Matas report // on 6 July 2006, Chinese officials declared that China abides by World Health Organization principles that prohibit the sale of human organs without written consent from donors. They denounced the report as smears "based on rumours and false allegations", and said the Chinese government had already investigated the claims and found them without any merit. The report is banned in Russia and China. Among international concerns, the US National Kidney Foundation expressed that it was "deeply concerned" about the allegations. In 2009, the authors published an updated version of the report as a book, titled "Bloody Harvest, The killing of
China's blood donations dry up as coronavirus outbreak quells giving. [SEP] HIV/AIDS in China // their sexual partners and children. In the mid-1990s, the occurrence of a second major outbreak in commercial plasma donors in the east-central provinces became apparent. Plasma donors were paid to donate blood, the plasma removed, then the red blood cells reinfused to prevent anaemia. Reuse of tubing and mixing during collection and reinfusion led to thousands of new infections. At the same time, HIV was also spreading through sexual transmission. By 1998, HIV had reached all 31 provinces and was in a phase of exponential growth, which, by 2005, had culminated in an estimated 650,000 infections.<ref name="MoH/UNAIDS/WHO/2005/update/2006">Ministry of Health of
China's blood donations dry up as coronavirus outbreak quells giving. [SEP] 3 Needles // a rite of passage symbolizing their change from boyhood into manhood. In rural China, a heavily pregnant Jin Ping is caught by Chinese military men with crates of black market blood in her van. The blood is destroyed and she is subsequently gang raped. Jin Ping is then shown visiting a village and convincing the inhabitants to give blood for $5 each. They all agree, except Tong Sam, a rice farmer, as he is unable to give blood as he is sick. However, as Jin Ping's equipment is not safe, most of the people in the village contract HIV and
China's blood donations dry up as coronavirus outbreak quells giving. [SEP] Plasma Economy // is estimated that by 2003, over 1.2 million people had contracted AIDS in Henan Province alone. "Caijing" noted that China's blood donation system is largely monetarily driven, and while attempts had been made in the 1980s to move to a voluntary system, they were mostly unsuccessful. In the early 1990s, China restricted the import of blood products, while called for local investment by foreign pharmaceutical companies, especially to the province of Henan, where numerous plasmapheresis stations were built. The selling of blood plasma were seen by locals as a method to reduce poverty. In plasmapheresis, blood plasma is taken from
Stem Cell Research: The Quest Resumes [SEP] Natural scientific research in Canada // stem cell research activity during this period. In 1997, Dr. John Dick, a molecular biologist at the University of Toronto, was the first to discover the existence of cancer stem cells. The Stem Cell Network was established in 2001 with headquarters at the University of Ottawa, and brings together more than 80 leading scientists, clinicians and engineers from Canadian universities and hospitals. Researchers study cellular therapeutics and their pharmacological applications as well as related technologies, public policy, ethical, legal and social issues with the goal of effectively treating cancer, heart and lung disease, macular degeneration, stroke, multiple sclerosis, spinal cord
Stem Cell Research: The Quest Resumes [SEP] MIRA procedure // stem cells for breast reconstruction after mastectomy as long as there is no evidence of cancer. In the year 2002 the UCLA under direction of Dr. Marc H. Hedrick M.D. started research on possible applications of Adult stem cells generating positive results. Opting for research on Adult stem cells rather than Embryonic stem cells resulted amidst the stem cell controversy that involve diverse ethical concerns and religious groups, most prominently the Catholic Church. Embryonic stem cells till this day are frowned upon many for the implication of the destruction of human embryos, yet the progress of adult stem cells has
Stem Cell Research: The Quest Resumes [SEP] Terra Incognita: The Perils and Promise of Stem Cell Research // Terra Incognita: The Perils and Promise of Stem Cell Research Terra Incognita: The Perils and Promise of Stem Cell Research, also known as Terra Incognita: Mapping Stem Cell Research, is a documentary film released by Kartemquin Films in 2007. The film follows Dr. Jack Kessler of Northwestern University in his search for a cure for spinal cord injuries using embryonic stem cells. When Kessler was invited to head up the Neurology Department at Northwestern, his focus was on using stem cells to help cure diabetes. However, soon after his move to Chicago, his daughter Allison – then age 15, was
Stem Cell Research: The Quest Resumes [SEP] Fiona Watt // stem cells into clinical reality for patients. As of January 2012, Watt began organising previous research findings at King's College and proceeded to institute her own research program involving the use of stem cells in regenerative medicine and disease, especially the development and renewal of epidermal stem cells. Her major research interest is in the role of stem cells in adult tissue maintenance. For many of her studies, she uses mammalian epidermis as a model system, both in the context of genetically modified mice and epidermal reconstitution in culture. Some of her current projects are exploring self-renewal and lineage selection
Stem Cell Research: The Quest Resumes [SEP] Amy Wagers // Amy Wagers Amy J. Wagers is the Forst Family Professor of Stem Cell and Regenerative Biology at Harvard University and Harvard Medical School, an investigator in islet cell and regenerative biology at the Joslin Diabetes Center, and principal faculty of the Harvard Stem Cell Institute. Wager started her education at Johns Hopkins University and received her B.A. in Biological Sciences and her Ph.D. in Immunology and Microbial Pathogenesis from Northwestern University in 1999. She completed her postdoctoral fellowship in the laboratory of Dr. Irving Weissman at Stanford University School of Medicine. Wagers researches intrinsic and extrinsic regulators of stem cell
Stem Cell Research: The Quest Resumes [SEP] Kevin Eggan // ("HSCI") in 2005. At the time, stem cell research in the United States was threatened by political pressure due to concerns over the ethics of human embryo research, and research such as this was at risk of potentially being made illegal. Federal funding for stem cell research had recently been removed, and part of his role was to obtain private funding to replace it. Eggan took on a second role as the assistant investigator for Stowers Institute for Medical Research, a philanthropical medical research group in Kansas City, Missouri. Eggan's research goals at Harvard were to understand how nuclear transplantation
Stem Cell Research: The Quest Resumes [SEP] Terra Incognita: The Perils and Promise of Stem Cell Research // was broadcast on PBS' award-winning series Independent Lens in 2008. 'Terra Incognita' won a 2008 Peabody Award recognizing the film's uncompromising look at stem-cell research. The film also won Best Documentary Feature at the 2009 Kos International Health Film Festival in Greece. Terra Incognita: The Perils and Promise of Stem Cell Research Terra Incognita: The Perils and Promise of Stem Cell Research, also known as Terra Incognita: Mapping Stem Cell Research, is a documentary film released by Kartemquin Films in 2007. The film follows Dr. Jack Kessler of Northwestern University in his search for a cure for spinal cord injuries
Stem Cell Research: The Quest Resumes [SEP] Peter Zandstra // the American Association for the Advancement of Science. Dr Zandstra, currently serves associate editor for the journals Stem Cells, Stem Cell Research and Biotechnology and Bioengineering. Research in the Zandstra Laboratory is focused on the regeneration of functional tissues from stem cells and the development and utilization of tools to modulate the responses of stem cells in vitro and in vivo. Interest in the generation of primary cells and tissues ex vivo is driven both by their potential use as a direct clinical modality and as human tissue analogues for the development of novel therapeutic agents. Dr Zandstra’s group particularly
Stem Cell Research: The Quest Resumes [SEP] Natural scientific research in Canada // is to map the functional transcriptome or the genetic circuitry of stem cells. Planned as a follow-up to the Human Genome Project, the consortium is headquartered at the University of Ottawa and led by Dr. Michel Rudniki. In 2009, Dr. Andras Nagy, a biologist at Mount Sinai Hospital in Toronto, developed a practical way to transform mature human cells into the equivalent of embryonic stem cells, moving medicine one step closer to the use of these cells for the treatment of disease. Also in 2009, a team led by Dr. John Davies of the Institute of Biomaterials and Biomedical Engineering
Stem Cell Research: The Quest Resumes [SEP] Human embryonic stem cells clinical trials // will continue to monitor participants for fifteen years. Although no official results from the trial have been published, preliminary results from the clinical trial were presented at the American Congress of Rehabilitation Medicine (ACRM) conference in October 2011. None of the participants experienced serious adverse events, although nausea and low magnesium were reported. In addition, no changes to the spinal cord or neurological condition were found. After investing millions of dollars in the research leading up to this trial, Geron Corporation discontinued the study in November 2011 to focus on cancer research. John Scarlett, Geron's chief executive officer, said "In
Judge blocks NY ban on flavored vaping products. [SEP] William R. Spencer // individuals under 21. Such products include cigarettes, chewing tobacco, e-cigarettes, liquid nicotine, rolling papers, and smoking apparatuses. In late 2014, Spencer co-sponsored a resolution with his colleague, Presiding Officer DuWayne Gregory to ban the sale of powdered caffeine to minors in Suffolk County. The highly potent substance, which is nearly 100% caffeine, has been linked to at least 2 deaths in the United States. After the passage of the legislation, Dr. Spencer joined a group of advocates to meet with the FDA and five US Senators and discuss the dangers posed by powdered caffeine products. Since the delegation, the FDA
Judge blocks NY ban on flavored vaping products. [SEP] Food and Drug Administration // and the American Advertising Federation have also filed a brief in the suit, arguing that the labels infringe on commercial free speech and could lead to further government intrusion if left unchallenged. In November 2011, Federal judge Richard Leon of the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia temporarily halted the new labels, likely delaying the requirement that tobacco companies display the labels. The U.S. Supreme Court ultimately could decide the matter. In July 2017, the FDA announced a plan that would reduce the current levels of nicotine permitted in tobacco cigarettes. With acceptance of premarket notification 510(k) k033391
Judge blocks NY ban on flavored vaping products. [SEP] Scott Gottlieb // Americans over centuries of cultivation and consumption." In September 2018, citing an epidemic of use of electronic cigarettes by teenagers, Gottlieb announced that the FDA would seek to ban flavors in e-cigs as a way to reduce their appeal to youth. On November 8, 2018, it was reported that the FDA was "expected to announce a ban on the sale of most flavored e-cigarettes in tens of thousands of convenience stores and gas stations across the country," according to senior agency officials, and "the agency will also impose such rules as age-verification requirements for online sales." The reports noted that
Judge blocks NY ban on flavored vaping products. [SEP] Frederic Block // involving members of the Orthodox Jewish Chabad group. Judge Block dismissed claims of copyright infringement and unfair competition brought by Vaad L'Hafotzas Sichos and Zalman Chanin against Merkos and Agudas Chasidei Chabad. On May 24, 2016, Judge Block ordered a sentence of one year of probation (rather than the guideline 33-41 month imprisonment) for a defendant who was convicted by a jury of importation and possession of cocaine with the intent to distribute. In a 44-page opinion, Judge Block described that the "collateral consequences" facing convicted felons are punishment enough. Judge Block's opinion and call for reform appears to be
Judge blocks NY ban on flavored vaping products. [SEP] Scott Gottlieb // cigars, declaring, “I will not allow a generation of children to become addicted to nicotine through e-cigarettes,” FDA Commissioner Scott Gottlieb announced “most flavored e-cigarette liquids would be banned from stores unless they have stringent age-verification measures in place. Fruity and creamy flavors that appeal to children will disappear from open convenience store shelves. Users will have to enter specialized vaping shops or tobacco stores to get flavors other than mint, menthol and tobacco. Other stores can sell additional flavors but only if they have separate, age-controlled rooms dedicated to their sale. Web sales, too, will require more extensive age-checking
Judge blocks NY ban on flavored vaping products. [SEP] Electronic cigarette // some states tax e-cigarettes as tobacco products, and some state and regional governments have broadened their indoor smoking bans to include e-cigarettes. As of 9 October 2015, at least 48 states and 2 territories banned e-cigarette sales to minors. In November 2018 the FDA announced new steps to curb youth vaping while still ensuring the adults who would benefit from electronic cigarettes still had access to a healthier nicotine delivery system. Sales of flavored tobacco products will be limited to adult only stores and online vendors with the exception of tobacco, mint or menthol electronic cigarettes that will remain for
Judge blocks NY ban on flavored vaping products. [SEP] Marketing of electronic cigarettes // in San Francisco, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) took a stand on the sale of flavored e-cigarettes in 2018. The ban targeted the sale of flavored tobacco at certain establishments such as retail stores and gas stations. Additionally, the administration planned to require age verification for online orders to ensure that these flavored products did not reach underage patrons. In some jurisdictions, regulations have not been explicit enough to prevent companies from marketing and selling e-cigarettes to minors. Marketing of electronic cigarettes The marketing of electronic cigarettes is legal in some jurisdictions, and spending is increasing rapidly. E-cigarette companies
Judge blocks NY ban on flavored vaping products. [SEP] Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act // issued its ruling, a divided panel for the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals upheld the constitutionality of the Act in the case of Discount Tobacco City & Lottery v. FDA. On April 22, 2013, the Supreme Court declined review of 6th District's decision. On 12 April 2010, Indonesia filed a formal complaint with the World Trade Organization stating the ban on kreteks (clove cigarettes) in America amounts to discrimination because menthol cigarettes are exempt from the new regulation. Trade Ministry Director General of International Trade Gusmardi Bustami has stated that the Indonesian government has asked the WTO panel to review
Judge blocks NY ban on flavored vaping products. [SEP] NJOY // Court of Appeals decision and would regulate the category under the Tobacco Control Act rather than under the agency’s drug jurisdiction. The lawsuit thereby established the legal framework for the entire electronic cigarette/vaping industry. Original NJOY achieved significant commercial success following the resolution of its lawsuit with FDA. Much of this early success was due to well-received launch of the NJOY KING, a disposable electronic cigarette in a package and form factor that looks like a cigarette. Main product features included a white paper wrapping, a faux filter that feels like the real thing, and a red “ember” that lights
Judge blocks NY ban on flavored vaping products. [SEP] Vape shop // The FDA acknowledged that many vape shops will go out of business, but they also state many will stay open, despite hefty costs. Part of the new law requires products to state nicotine is addictive. Some vape shop owners in the US believe a ban on public vaping might put some vape shops out of business because taste-testing would be prohibited. The revised Tobacco Products Directive European legislation will regulate the sale and marketing of e-cigarettes. Small business owners are concerned that the new regulation will make e-cigarettes less interesting to consumers and that this means a downturn of their
Wisconsin woman to celebrate 100th birthday. [SEP] Ruth DeYoung Kohler // and wrote a column about women's issues in 1940 for the Chicago Tribune. In 1948, she was the chairman of the Wisconsin Women's Committee. She served during Wisconsin's centennial celebration, where she published a book entitled "The Story of Wisconsin Women". This book chronicled the lives and histories of over 1,500 women from Wisconsin. In 1949, she received the Theodora Youmans Award, given to her by the Wisconsin Federation of Women's Clubs for her civic contributions. She was also an active member of the Wisconsin Federation of Women's Clubs, and served on its board of directors. She also helped to
Wisconsin woman to celebrate 100th birthday. [SEP] Joyce Mojonnier // events since January 2017. Centennial Celebration Events are planned for Monday, June 18, 2018 at the California State Capitol and the California State Library Exhibit Halls. WICP100 has been recognized as having the largest collection of Video-recorded oral histories and historical memorabilia on California's female legislators. Joyce Mojonnier Joyce "Sunny" Mojonnier (born 17 February 1943) is an American politician who served as a California State Assemblywoman for the 75th District. Mojonnier was the 30th women elected to serve in the California Legislature. She served from 1982 through 1990. The Legislature is composed of the State Assembly and the State Senate
Wisconsin woman to celebrate 100th birthday. [SEP] Jane Farwell // state legislature and Governor Scott Walker; and marked by special events, a reunion weekend, and the publication of the Folklore Village Cookbook. Jane Farwell Jane Farwell (January 18, 1916 – April 6, 1993) was a Wisconsin-born American folk dance and recreation leader. She specialized in Scandinavian dancing. Jane Farwell was born on January 18, 1916, on her family farm near Ridgeway, Wisconsin. Creating a major in “Rural Recreation,” she graduated with honors in 1938 from Antioch College in Yellow Springs, Ohio. Deciding that folk dancing was going to be the main thrust of her recreational program, she established the country’s
Wisconsin woman to celebrate 100th birthday. [SEP] Kathy Evers // to mobilize women voters. Kathy Evers Kathleen F. "Kathy" Evers (born 1950) is the First Lady-designate of Wisconsin, serving alongside her husband, Governor-elect of Wisconsin Tony Evers. Evers grew up in Plymouth, Wisconsin. Evers met her future husband in kindergarten; their first date was the junior prom. They have lived in Wisconsin for nearly their entire lives. Evers has three children and seven grandchildren. Evers is a retired educator. Upon her husband's inauguration on January 7, 2019, Evers will begin serving in the role of First Lady of Wisconsin. During the 2018 election, Evers led a "Women for Tony" task
Wisconsin woman to celebrate 100th birthday. [SEP] Kathryn Morrison (legislator) // for other women to follow after her. University of Wisconsin-Platteville faculty and staff, various members of the community, and legislators from all over the state attended a ceremony in Morrison’s honor on December 15th, 2014. Notable people in attendance included Wisconsin State Senators Dale Schultz, Tim Cullen, and Fred Risser as well as former University of Wisconsin System President Katharine C. Lyall, a dear friend of Morrison’s, as well as various members of her family. Held in the Nohr Gallery in Ullsvik Hall, a plaque memorializing her work was revealed during the ceremony. Morrison was well-remembered for her time in
Wisconsin woman to celebrate 100th birthday. [SEP] Virginia Hart // death in 2007, Lieutenant Governor of Wisconsin Barbara Lawton spoke at her memorial service. The Governor of Wisconsin's Virginia Hart Special Recognition Award is named in her honor. Organized annually by the State Employment Relations Commission, the award recognizes Wisconsin’s exceptional women whose contributions to the state have a significant impact. Virginia Hart Virginia B. Hart (July 19, 1914 – March 24, 2007) was an American politician and the first female cabinet member in Wisconsin. After World War II, Hart came to Wisconsin with her husband. Hart joined a small group to reorganize the Democratic Party of Wisconsin and became
Wisconsin woman to celebrate 100th birthday. [SEP] Ruth Bachhuber Doyle // Ruth Bachhuber Doyle Ruth Bachhuber Doyle (October 14, 1916 – May 6, 2006) was an American politician and educator from Wisconsin. Doyle was born in Milwaukee, Wisconsin in 1916; she went to elementary and high schools in Wausau, Wisconsin. Doyle received her bachelor's degree from University of Wisconsin in 1938 and her master's degree from Columbia University in 1939. Doyle was a teacher. She worked for the Office of Alien Property Custodian in Washington, D.C. Doyle was elected to the Wisconsin State Assembly, as a Democrat from Dane County, Wisconsin, serving from 1949 to 1953. She was the first woman
Wisconsin woman to celebrate 100th birthday. [SEP] Kathy Evers // Kathy Evers Kathleen F. "Kathy" Evers (born 1950) is the First Lady-designate of Wisconsin, serving alongside her husband, Governor-elect of Wisconsin Tony Evers. Evers grew up in Plymouth, Wisconsin. Evers met her future husband in kindergarten; their first date was the junior prom. They have lived in Wisconsin for nearly their entire lives. Evers has three children and seven grandchildren. Evers is a retired educator. Upon her husband's inauguration on January 7, 2019, Evers will begin serving in the role of First Lady of Wisconsin. During the 2018 election, Evers led a "Women for Tony" task force across the state
Wisconsin woman to celebrate 100th birthday. [SEP] Ruth Bachhuber Doyle // died in Madison, Wisconsin on May 6, 2006, aged 89. Ruth Bachhuber Doyle Ruth Bachhuber Doyle (October 14, 1916 – May 6, 2006) was an American politician and educator from Wisconsin. Doyle was born in Milwaukee, Wisconsin in 1916; she went to elementary and high schools in Wausau, Wisconsin. Doyle received her bachelor's degree from University of Wisconsin in 1938 and her master's degree from Columbia University in 1939. Doyle was a teacher. She worked for the Office of Alien Property Custodian in Washington, D.C. Doyle was elected to the Wisconsin State Assembly, as a Democrat from Dane County, Wisconsin,
Wisconsin woman to celebrate 100th birthday. [SEP] Therese A. Jenkins // Therese A. Jenkins Therese Alberta Parkinson Jenkins was a suffragist, credited with saving women's suffrage in the State of Wyoming. She was the first woman delegate to the Republican National Convention in Minneapolis in 1892. Therese Alberta Parkinson was born in Fayette, Wisconsin, on May 1, 1853. She was the daughter of the Peter "Badger Pete" Parkinson (1813-1895), one of the pioneers of Wisconsin, who fought in the Black Hawk War and won military honors, and Cleantha Stone Welch (1825-1863). She was a thoroughly educated woman, and her writings are clear and forcible. Since 1887 Jenkins worked to secure equal
Eating watermelon could lower your blood pressure [SEP] Prehypertension // in blood pressure. Recent research has found that low carbohydrate diets can lower weight and blood pressure in manners similar to medications. Foods rich in potassium include banana, papaya, sweet potato, dark leafy greens, avocado, prune juice, tomato juice, oranges, milk, yogurt, dried beans such as navy, pinto and black beans, chickpeas, lentils, beef, pork, fish, nuts and seeds such as pistachio, almonds, pumpkin, flax and sunflower seeds. Careful monitoring for signs of end-organ damage or progression to hypertension is an important part of the follow-up of patients with prehypertension. Any change in blood pressure classification should be confirmed on
Eating watermelon could lower your blood pressure [SEP] Prehypertension // fruits and vegetables (aim for half of your meal including non-starchy vegetables, like leafy greens, beans, carrots, cucumbers, tomatoes, etc.), whole grains, low in refined grains (e.g., white breads and baked goods made from white flour), low in saturated fats ( e.g., fatty cuts of meat or fried foods) and low in sodium (homemade or minimally processed) have been demonstrated through randomized controlled studies to significantly lower blood pressure. These types of diet changes alone can lower blood pressure greater than any single drug therapy. The effects of both diet and sodium reduction work together, meaning the more you improve
Eating watermelon could lower your blood pressure [SEP] DASH diet // hypertensive portion both showed the largest reductions in blood pressure from the combination diet against the control diet. The hypertensive subjects experienced a drop of 11.4 mm Hg in their systolic and 5.5 mm Hg in their diastolic phases. The fruits-and-vegetables diet was also successful, although it produced more modest reductions compared with the control diet (2.8 mm Hg systolic and 1.1 mm Hg diastolic). In the subjects with and without hypertension, the combination diet effectively reduced blood pressure more than the fruits-and-vegetables diet or the control diet did. The data indicated that reductions in blood pressure occurred within two
Eating watermelon could lower your blood pressure [SEP] Watermelon // diet of tsamma for six weeks. In Southern Russia, they are sometimes preserved by fermenting them together with sauerkraut, much like the apples. Watermelon fruit is 91% water, contains 6% sugars, and is low in fat (table). In a 100 gram serving, watermelon fruit supplies 30 calories and low amounts of essential nutrients (table). Only vitamin C is present in appreciable content at 10% of the Daily Value (table). Watermelon pulp contains carotenoids, including lycopene. The amino acid citrulline is produced in watermelon rind. Watermelon Citrullus lanatus is a plant species in the family Cucurbitaceae, a vine-like (scrambler and trailer)
Eating watermelon could lower your blood pressure [SEP] Saliva testing // of platelet aggregation, increasing cerebral blood flow and flow-mediated dilation, and decreasing oxygen cost during exercise. A principal source of dietary inorganic nitrate, which is reduced to nitric oxide in the body, is from leafy green vegetables. The blood pressure lowering effects of leafy green vegetables, in particular, spinach and arugula, are abundant in anti-hypertensive diets such as the DASH diet. Several papers have shown saliva nitrite levels correlate with blood nitrite levels which both serve as meaningful surrogates for blood pressure lowering effects. Sobko et al. shows that Japanese traditional diets rich in leafy vegetables elevated both plasma and
Eating watermelon could lower your blood pressure [SEP] Melon soup // muskmelon soup. Cantaloupe soup may be served as a first course or starter dish prior to a main course. The use of well-ripened cantaloupe can create an optimal texture and enhance the sweet flavor of the soup. Additional ingredients can include lime juice, lemon juice, apple juice, orange juice, salt, pepper, herbs such as mint or basil, cayenne pepper and balsamic vinegar. Spicy versions may be prepared using chili peppers. A cantaloupe soup recipe using one large cantaloupe melon, one-half cup orange juice and one-quarter cup of honey has 147 calories per one-cup serving. Watermelon soup is prepared with watermelon
Eating watermelon could lower your blood pressure [SEP] Management of hypertension // vegetarian diet are beneficial. A long term (more than 4 weeks) low sodium diet is effective in reducing blood pressure, both in people with hypertension and in people with normal blood pressure. Also, the DASH diet, a diet rich in nuts, whole grains, fish, poultry, fruit and vegetables lowers blood pressure. A major feature of the plan is limiting intake of sodium, although the diet is also rich in potassium, magnesium, calcium, as well as protein. A vegetarian diet is associated with a lower blood pressure and switching to such a diet may be useful for reducing high blood pressure.
Eating watermelon could lower your blood pressure [SEP] Raisin // fiber. Raisins, like prunes and apricots, are also high in certain antioxidants, but have a lower vitamin C content than fresh grapes. Raisins are low in sodium and contain no cholesterol. Data presented at the American College of Cardiology's 61st Annual Scientific Session in 2012 suggest that, among individuals with mild increases in blood pressure, the routine consumption of raisins (three times a day) may significantly lower blood pressure, especially when compared to eating other common snacks. Raisins can cause renal failure in dogs. The cause of this is not known. Raisins are sweet due to their high concentration of
Eating watermelon could lower your blood pressure [SEP] Watermelon steak // and texture while leaving the watermelon tender, "kind of like a fillet steak". Cookbooks sometimes suggest watermelon steak as a meat substitute for vegetarians. However, watermelon is not a nutritional substitute for traditional steak, as it is lacking in protein and other nutrients found in meat. Watermelon steak Watermelon steaks are slices of watermelon, prepared by grilling, pan frying, baking, or roasting. Depending on the method used, cooking can take from a few minutes to over two hours. If the watermelon is baked, a texture like raw fish can result, "Boston Phoenix" writer Robert Nadeau comparing a grilled watermelon to
Eating watermelon could lower your blood pressure [SEP] Diverticulosis // straining, are not recommended. A high-fiber diet and fiber supplements are advisable to prevent constipation. The American Dietetic Association recommends 20–35 grams each day. Wheat bran has been shown to reduce intra colonic pressure. The US National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases (NIDDK) says foods such as nuts, popcorn hulls, sunflower seeds, pumpkin seeds, caraway seeds, and sesame seeds have traditionally been labeled as problem foods for people with this condition; however, no scientific data exists to prove this hypothesis. The seeds in tomatoes, zucchini, cucumbers, strawberries, raspberries, and poppy seeds, are not considered harmful by the
Concussions in kids are detectable by blood test [SEP] Concussion // blood test known as the Brain Trauma Indicator was approved in the United States in 2018 and may be able to rule out the risk of intracranial bleeding and thus the need for a CT scan. Concussion may be under-diagnosed because of the lack of the highly noticeable signs and symptoms while athletes may minimize their injuries to remain in the competition. A retrospective survey in 2005 suggested that more than 88% of concussions are unrecognized. Diagnosis can be complex because concussion shares symptoms with other conditions. For example, post-concussion symptoms such as cognitive problems may be misattributed to brain
Concussions in kids are detectable by blood test [SEP] Sports-related traumatic brain injury // a fracture. CT or MRI detect any bleeding in the skull. The Glasgow Coma Scale classifies the severity of brain injury, with a score of 15 as normal and progressively lower scores indicating greater neurologic injury to the brain. After testing is completed, doctors will make an estimate on the extent of the injury and possible recovery time. If cranial bleeding and swelling is minor, a short hospital stay (up to a week) is needed with close observation. If bleeding is severe, the player may be treated as a patient with a severe head injury (with surgery as the main
Concussions in kids are detectable by blood test [SEP] Concussions in American football // were consistent with previous autopsy studies of individuals with CTE. The important distinction to make, however, is that the patients in Small's study were not on the slab and walked out after testing was completed. This is monumental in the field of brain trauma and concussion research. Based on recent new blood tests; evidence is revealing no change in blood plasma tau and serum neurofilament light concentrations following sport related concussions. However these levels did rise in more severe concussion sport related injuries. This can can potentially suggest that a new blood test be developed and help aid in identifying
Concussions in kids are detectable by blood test [SEP] Concussion // at any time, a CT is recommended. In addition, a CT scan is more likely to be performed if observation after discharge is not assured or intoxication is present, there is suspected increased risk for bleeding, age greater than 60, or less than 16. Most concussions, without complication, cannot be detected with MRI or CT scans. However, changes have been reported on MRI and SPECT imaging in those with concussion and normal CT scans, and post-concussion syndrome may be associated with abnormalities visible on SPECT and PET scans. Mild head injury may or may not produce abnormal EEG readings. A
Concussions in kids are detectable by blood test [SEP] Post-concussion syndrome // has found higher rates of post-concussion symptoms in children with TBI than in those with injuries to other parts of the body, and that the symptoms are more common in anxious children. Symptoms in children are similar to those in adults, but children exhibit fewer of them. Evidence from clinical studies found that high school-aged athletes had slower recoveries from concussion as measured by neuropsychological tests than college-aged ones and adults. PCS is rare in young children. A wide range of factors have been identified as being predictive of PCS, including low socioeconomic status, previous mTBI, a serious associated injury,
Concussions in kids are detectable by blood test [SEP] Brain death // cerebral blood flow scan that shows complete absence of intracranial blood flow must be considered with other exams – temporary swelling of the brain, particularly within the first 72 hours, can lead to a false positive test on a patient that may recover with more time. CT angiography is neither required nor sufficient test to make the diagnosis. Confirmatory testing is only needed under the age of 1. For children and adults, testing is optional. Other situations possibly requiring confirmatory testing include severe facial trauma where determination of brainstem reflexes will be difficult, pre-existing pupillary abnormalities, and patients with severe
Concussions in kids are detectable by blood test [SEP] Concussions in Australian sport // concussion. The occurrence of concussion in children during sport is significantly more likely compared to other levels of athletes. Roughly 20% of children playing sport are diagnosed with concussion. Despite the lower level of impact compared to the professional or amateur levels, children's neck muscles are quite weak and most lack the awareness and skill level to cushion or prepare themselves for a blow leading to a high concussion rate. The guidelines and protocols for a child suffering a concussion are basically the same as if an adult received one. For a child diagnosed with a concussion, the real issue
Concussions in kids are detectable by blood test [SEP] Pittsburgh Penguins Foundation // athletes in 12 additional sports. To date, more than 5,700 young athletes have received free baseline concussion testing and educational seminars for their parents. The test, which all NHL players undergo, evaluates the athlete's neurocognitive state which includes brain processing speed, memory, and visual motor skills. If the player suffers a concussion, these test results are then used in order to compare their previous neurocognitive state to that of their possible concussed state. Baseline testing is used because concussions do not show up on CT or MRI scans due to it not being a structural brain injury. Testing is necessary
Concussions in kids are detectable by blood test [SEP] Concussion // Concussion Concussion, also known as mild traumatic brain injury (mTBI), is typically defined as a head injury that temporarily affects brain functioning. Symptoms may include headaches, trouble with thinking, memory or concentration, nausea, blurry vision, sleep disturbances or mood changes. Some symptoms may begin immediately, while others may appear days after the injury. Fewer than 10% of sports-related concussions among children are associated with loss of consciousness. It is not unusual for symptoms to last up to four weeks. Common causes include motor vehicle collisions, falls, sports injuries and bicycle accidents. Risk factors include drinking alcohol. The mechanism may involve
Concussions in kids are detectable by blood test [SEP] Concussion // intracranial hemorrhage. This includes the "ABCs" (airway, breathing, circulation) and stabilization of the cervical spine which is assumed to be injured in any athlete who is found to be unconscious after head or neck injury. Indications that screening for more serious injury is needed include worsening of symptoms such as headaches, persistent vomiting, increasing disorientation or a deteriorating level of consciousness, seizures, and unequal pupil size. Those with such symptoms, or those who are at higher risk of a more serious brain injury, may undergo brain imaging to detect lesions and are frequently observed for 24–48 hours. A brain CT
More cases of rabies in skunks confirmed in Detroit area. [SEP] Prevalence of rabies // Mexico the same trend of increased prevalence in wildlife has been observed with a reported 57% increase in the number of rabid bats. As of 2017, there have been 11 confirmed cases of rabies in New Mexico: 5 bats, 2 skunks, 2 bobcats, and 2 foxes. Conversely to these two states, Arizona in 2015 saw a drop in the number of confirmed rabies cases with a 21.3% decrease in reported skunk and fox rabies virus variants. Furthermore, during that same time frame in Arizona 53.3% of all reported positive rabies cases were bats and 40% were identified as skunks. Similarly,
More cases of rabies in skunks confirmed in Detroit area. [SEP] Skunk // cases of rabies in skunks in the United States for the year 2006—about 21.5% of reported cases in all species. Skunks trail raccoons as vectors of rabies, although this varies regionally in the United States; raccoons dominate along the Atlantic coast and eastern Gulf of Mexico, skunks throughout the Midwest and down to the western Gulf, and in California. "Mephitis mephitis", the striped skunk, is the most social skunk and the one most commonly tamed. In the US, skunks can legally be kept as pets in seventeen states. When a skunk is kept as a pet, its scent glands are
More cases of rabies in skunks confirmed in Detroit area. [SEP] Rabies in animals // for the strain of rabies that afflicts skunks. When cases are reported of pet skunks biting a human, the animals are frequently killed in order to be tested for rabies. It has been reported that three different variants of rabies exist in striped skunks in the north and south central states. Humans exposed to the rabies virus must begin post-exposure prophylaxis before the disease can progress to the central nervous system. For this reason, it is necessary to determine whether the animal, in fact, has rabies as quickly as possible. Without a definitive quarantine period in place for skunks, quarantining
More cases of rabies in skunks confirmed in Detroit area. [SEP] Prevalence of rabies // States outside the Southern states, but raccoons in the mid-Atlantic and northeast United States have been suffering from a rabies epidemic since the 1970s, that is now moving westwards into Ohio. Most westward expansion has been prevented via the action of Oral Rabies Vaccination (ORV) programs. In the midwestern United States, skunks are the primary carriers of rabies, composing 134 of the 237 documented non-human cases in 1996. The most widely distributed reservoir of rabies in the United States, however, and the source of most human cases in the U.S., are bats. Nineteen of the twenty-two human rabies cases documented
More cases of rabies in skunks confirmed in Detroit area. [SEP] Prevalence of rabies // the increase in the number of residents by 9.2% between 2010 and 2016 has led to an elevated risk of rabies to the public. Additionally, according to Colorado Parks and Wildlife, reported cases, as well as the geographical distribution, in skunks, raccoons, and bats have increased; thereby further enhancing the likelihood of exposure. Together these increased risk factors have been documented in the state by the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment, which reported 141 positive animals; 95 of these reported animal cases were suspected to have exposed 180 domestic pets, 193 livestock animals, and 59 people. In New
More cases of rabies in skunks confirmed in Detroit area. [SEP] Skunks as pets // bill in the Maryland legislature to legalize pet skunks in that state. Several officials spoke in opposition to the measure before the Environmental Matters committee. Mike Slattery, testifying on behalf of the Maryland Department of Natural Resources, criticized the idea, saying it would encourage "Bambi syndrome", the tendency to domesticate wild animals. State health officials pointed out that the bill, HB 91, required rabies vaccinations when there is no federally approved rabies vaccine for skunks. Rabies has, in fact, been a key issue in skunk-related legislative debates. Since wild skunks account for the second-largest number of rabies cases in wildlife
More cases of rabies in skunks confirmed in Detroit area. [SEP] Skunks as pets // in the US, many legislators have been reluctant to allow domestic skunks without an appropriate vaccine on the market. In addition to the problems at the state level, federal organizations set the policy for dealing with accidental skunk bites, which currently requires euthanizing the animal so rabies tests can be performed. In February 1990, a rabies vaccine called Imrab 3 was approved for ferrets. Many skunk advocates believe the vaccine would also be effective for skunks, and are pushing to have it tested for this use. They also favor clinical tests to determine the appropriate quarantine/observation period in case of
More cases of rabies in skunks confirmed in Detroit area. [SEP] Rabies in animals // did not remember any direct contact with bats. Rabies cases in the Virginia opossum are spillover cases from other wildlife species such as bats, skunks and the raccoon epizootic in the eastern United States. Cases have been reported across the United States from California to New York. In New York state, laboratory confirmed rabies cases in opossums occurred five of the ten years between from 1989 to 1999. Recently, from 2010 to 2014, rabid Virginia opossums were reported in New York City and the states of New Jersey, Maryland, and Virginia. In the U.S., there is currently no USDA-approved vaccine
More cases of rabies in skunks confirmed in Detroit area. [SEP] Rabies in animals // the animals is not advised as there is no way of knowing how long it may take the animal to show symptoms. Destruction of the skunk is recommended and the brain is then tested for presence of rabies virus. Skunk owners have recently organized to campaign for USDA approval of both a vaccine and an officially recommended quarantine period for skunks in the United States. Under normal circumstances, wild wolves are generally timid around humans, though there are several reported circumstances in which wolves have been recorded to act aggressively toward humans. The majority of fatal wolf attacks have historically
More cases of rabies in skunks confirmed in Detroit area. [SEP] Skunks as pets // be tested for rabies. In the United States, there is no government-approved rabies vaccine or quarantine period for skunks. In Canada, Imrab 3 was used in a study for off-label use as a skunk rabies vaccine and to date it is not approved for skunk use. If a skunk nips or bites, and the owner can produce proof of vaccination, a 2-week quarantine is required, according to Vivianne Chernoff of Skunks as Pets Canada. Many countries, such as Japan, require all newly imported skunks to be quarantined. In 2003, The Guardian reported that the UK lacks quarantine kennels licensed to
There’s not one public study, and by public study I mean a study available to the public, that has looked at using the product Kaput to poison feral hogs. [SEP] Sid Miller (politician) // whether he received the injection during the February 2015 trip." Miller later reimbursed the state $1,500. After an investigation, the Texas Department of Public Safety declined to pursue any charges against Miller. In 2017, Miller approved the statewide use of "Kaput Feral Hog Lure" —a bait containing the poison warfarin—in order to kill feral hogs, which have increased in population in Texas and other states. Miller said that the use of the substance would be a "major new weapon" against destructive feral hogs, stating: "I am pleased to announce that the ‘feral hog apocalypse’ may be within Texans' reach." The
There’s not one public study, and by public study I mean a study available to the public, that has looked at using the product Kaput to poison feral hogs. [SEP] Feral pig // population per year is required to keep the Texas feral pig populations stable. Best management practices suggest the use of corral traps which have the ability to capture the entire sounder of feral pigs. The federal government spends $20 million on feral pig management. In February 2017, Texas Agriculture Commissioner Sid Miller approved the use of a pesticide called Kaput Feral Hog Lure, which is bait food laced with warfarin (a rodenticide used to kill rodents). An estimated 2.5 million feral hogs are in Texas, and they cause about $50 million in agriculture damage per year. Domestic pigs were first
There’s not one public study, and by public study I mean a study available to the public, that has looked at using the product Kaput to poison feral hogs. [SEP] Lynn Stucky // to refer the issue of feral hog proliferation to a university study to determine what impact that poisoning these animals, as proposed by Texas Agriculture Commissioner Sid Miller, would have on the land, agriculture, and hunters. Stucky and Watson want the research conducted before Miller can proceed with his proposal to exterminate the hogs, which have caused millions of dollars in damage to area landowners. In the general election held on November 6, 2018, Stucky won his second term with 36,195 votes (52.8 percent) to Democratic nominee Andrew Morris' 30,465 (44.5 percent). Libertarian Party nominee Nick Dietrich held the remaining
There’s not one public study, and by public study I mean a study available to the public, that has looked at using the product Kaput to poison feral hogs. [SEP] Sid Miller (politician) // approval prompted criticism from members of the hunting community and others who opposed the introduction of a poison into the environment. The hogs number perhaps two million and cause more than $50 million in annual damage. A judge in Austin halted Miller's proposal after Wild Boar Meats, a North Texas hog processor, sued on grounds that the poison may have unintended consequences. The "San Antonio Express-News" editorially opposes the use of the poison. The newspaper maintains that the chemical could impact the food chain and taint hog meat used for pets and poison other wild animals as well, such as
There’s not one public study, and by public study I mean a study available to the public, that has looked at using the product Kaput to poison feral hogs. [SEP] Sodium fluoroacetate // were intentionally killed in one of the largest coordinated 1080 poisonings seen in Tasmania. In 2016 PAPP (para-amino propiophenone) became available for use, which the RSPCA has endorsed as a more humane alternative to 1080 due in part to its ability to kill faster, as well as having an antidote, which 1080 does not. Worldwide, New Zealand is the largest user of sodium fluoroacetate. This high usage is attributable to the fact that, apart from two species of bat, New Zealand has no native land mammals, and some of those that have been introduced have had devastating effects on vegetation
There’s not one public study, and by public study I mean a study available to the public, that has looked at using the product Kaput to poison feral hogs. [SEP] Dog behavior // studies could not find evidence of a single predation on cattle by feral dogs. However, domestic dogs were responsible for the death of 3 calves over one 5-year study. Other studies in Europe and North America indicate only limited success in the consumption of wild boar, deer and other ungulates, however it could not be determined if this was predation or scavenging on carcasses. Studies have observed feral dogs conducting brief, uncoordinated chases of small game with constant barking - a technique without success. In 2004, a study reviewed 5 other studies of feral dogs published between 1975 and 1995
There’s not one public study, and by public study I mean a study available to the public, that has looked at using the product Kaput to poison feral hogs. [SEP] 4'-Aminopropiophenone // early 1980s yet was not developed into a practical technology. From the 1990s scientists based at the then Victorian Institute of Animal Science (Australia) were the first to demonstrate that PAPP could be formulated as a rapid acting and humane means of feral cat and exotic red fox control. Improved animal welfare outcomes and the existence of an antidote to treat accidental poisoning was an attractive feature of the agent given that the humaneness of the most commonly used poison (sodium fluoroacetate or '1080') is equivocal and no antidote exists for treating accidental 1080 poisoning. Due to the short duration
There’s not one public study, and by public study I mean a study available to the public, that has looked at using the product Kaput to poison feral hogs. [SEP] 1080 usage in New Zealand // the New Zealand Environmental Protection Authority approved the import and manufacture of microencapsulated zinc phosphide (MZP paste) as an alternative to 1080 for the ground control of possums. The application was made by Pest Tech Limited, with support from Connovation Ltd, Lincoln University, and the Animal Health Board. It will be used as an additional vertebrate poison in certain situations. Unlike 1080, it cannot be used for aerial application. Sodium nitrite is a naturally occurring substance commonly used as a meat preservative, but toxic at higher doses. It kills in a similar way as PAPP, by reducing the ability of
There’s not one public study, and by public study I mean a study available to the public, that has looked at using the product Kaput to poison feral hogs. [SEP] Mary Amdur // spraying a combination mist of sulfuric acid and sulfur dioxide into humid chambers containing guinea pigs to investigate the damage that it would cause to their lungs. Guinea pigs were used as they breathe more deeply through their mouths than smaller rodents which breathe through their noses. The Amdurs bought their own guinea pigs for the mini project, and spent a holiday weekend doing the investigation. Amdur presented the results of the experiment, that inhaling the combination mist led to dramatic effects on breathing, loss of weight and lung disease, to the American Association for the Advancement of Science at
There’s not one public study, and by public study I mean a study available to the public, that has looked at using the product Kaput to poison feral hogs. [SEP] Sid Miller (politician) // deer, who are not a target for extinction. Meanwhile, state Senator Kirk Watson of Austin and state Representative Lynn Stucky of Denton County, a veterinarian, filed legislation to refer the feral hog matter to a university study to determine the impact the poison would have on the land, agriculture, and hunters before the Miller plan could take effect. In 2018, Miller wrote a letter in support a proposed Sons of Confederate Veterans Texas license plate that would glorify the Confederacy, and offered to sponsor the license plate. The group's proposal is a long-running controversy in Texas. In the 2016 presidential
President Barack Obama "said over 20 times he did not have the legal authority" to act as he did on immigration. [SEP] Economic policy of the Barack Obama administration // November 2013, Ju Hong, a 24-year-old South Korean immigrant without legal documentation, shouted at Obama to use his executive power to stop deportation of illegal immigrants. Obama said "If, in fact, I could solve all these problems without passing laws in Congress, then I would do so." "But we're also a nation of laws, that's part of our tradition," he continued. "And so the easy way out is to try to yell and pretend like I can do something by violating our laws. And what I'm proposing is the harder path, which is to use our democratic processes to achieve
President Barack Obama "said over 20 times he did not have the legal authority" to act as he did on immigration. [SEP] Heckler // after President Obama stated that his health care plan would not subsidize coverage for illegal immigrants during a speech he was making to a joint session of Congress. Wilson later apologized for his outburst. On 25 November 2013, Ju Hong, a 24-year-old South Korean immigrant without legal documentation, shouted at Obama to use his executive power to stop deportation of illegal immigrants. Obama said "If, in fact, I could solve all these problems without passing laws in Congress, then I would do so." "But we're also a nation of laws, that's part of our tradition," he continued. "And so the
President Barack Obama "said over 20 times he did not have the legal authority" to act as he did on immigration. [SEP] Ken Paxton // New York Times", Obama's executive actions "would protect millions of illegal immigrants from deportation and allow them to work indefinitely in the country legally." Paxton argued that the president should not be allowed to "unilaterally rewrite congressional laws and circumvent the people's representatives." The Supreme Court heard the case, "United States v. Texas", and issued a split 4-4 ruling in the case in June 2016. Because of the split ruling, a 2015 lower-court ruling invalidating Obama's plan was left in place. In July 2017, Paxton led a group of Republican Attorneys General and Idaho Governor Butch Otter in threatening the
President Barack Obama "said over 20 times he did not have the legal authority" to act as he did on immigration. [SEP] ENFORCE the Law Act of 2014 // changes and delays he'd made with regards to the ACA, his past decisions not to deport children of illegal immigrants, his uneven enforcement of marijuana laws, and his treatment of the Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA) which Republicans often claimed he had refused to enforce. Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee Bob Goodlatte (R-VA) said that "throughout the Obama presidency we have seen a pattern: President Obama circumvents Congress when he doesn't get his way." Majority Leader Eric Cantor said that "the president's dangerous search for expanded powers appears to be endless." ENFORCE the Law Act of 2014 The ENFORCE
President Barack Obama "said over 20 times he did not have the legal authority" to act as he did on immigration. [SEP] Presidency of Barack Obama // executive actions. In the 2010 lame-duck session, Obama supported passage of the DREAM Act, which passed the House but failed to overcome a Senate filibuster in a 55-41 vote in favor of the bill. In 2013, the Senate passed an immigration bill with a path to citizenship, but the House did not vote on the bill. In 2012, Obama implemented the DACA policy, which protected roughly 700,000 illegal immigrants from deportation; the policy applies only to those who were brought to the United States before their 16th birthday. In 2014, Obama announced a new executive order that would have protected
President Barack Obama "said over 20 times he did not have the legal authority" to act as he did on immigration. [SEP] Economic policy of the Barack Obama administration // said that he "will not support any bill that does not provide [an] earned path to citizenship for the undocumented population." Obama has said that he does not believe that the 12 million illegal immigrants should be deported. He said "It's not going to happen. We're not going to go round them up ... We should give them a pathway to citizenship." In September 2006, Obama voted for the Secure Fence Act, authorizing the construction of of fencing along the United States–Mexico border. Obama has supported granting driver's licenses to illegal immigrants. In June 2007, Obama voted against declaring English
President Barack Obama "said over 20 times he did not have the legal authority" to act as he did on immigration. [SEP] Immigration reform in the United States // and new procedures for "high-skilled immigrants". These other "parts of the president's plan" could provide "protection from deportation" for roughly "an additional one million people". President Obama's actions were clearly presented as a response to Congress having been unable in recent years to agree on a general legislative overhaul of U.S. immigration policy. Obama indicated: [By] acting where Congress has failed ... [I hope] to work with both parties to pass a more permanent legislative solution. And the day I sign that bill into law, the actions I take will no longer be necessary. On December 16, 2014, Arthur J.
President Barack Obama "said over 20 times he did not have the legal authority" to act as he did on immigration. [SEP] Border Security, Economic Opportunity, and Immigration Modernization Act of 2013 // Representatives has not acted on this Senate bill. A statement of principles on immigration, released by Congressional Republicans on January 30, 2014, stated that “we will not go to a conference with the Senate’s immigration bill” and that “border security and interior enforcement must come first.” In the absence of a “comprehensive fix” from Congress, U.S. President Barack Obama announced on November 20, 2014 executive actions to “make our immigration system more fair and more just.” These actions included a long-contemplated program of "deferred action" which would allow an estimated 45% of unauthorized immigrants to legally stay and work in
President Barack Obama "said over 20 times he did not have the legal authority" to act as he did on immigration. [SEP] United States v. Texas // as much of our immigration system as I can on my own, without Congress.” Over the next eight months the Obama Administration went through sixty iterations of different possible executive actions. Finally, on November 20, 2014, President Obama delivered a primetime televised address to the nation announcing DAPA. The Office of Legal Counsel advised that the program was constitutional, finding it was similar to President George H. W. Bush’s 1990 "Family Fairness" program. Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson then released two memorandums directing the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement to make aliens without criminal histories the lowest priority for removal,
President Barack Obama "said over 20 times he did not have the legal authority" to act as he did on immigration. [SEP] Barack Obama speech to joint session of Congress, September 2009 // Because that is who we are. That is our calling. That is our character. During the speech, the president discussed the health coverage of illegal immigrants, saying: "There are also those who claim that our reform efforts would insure illegal immigrants. This, too, is false. The reforms I'm proposing would not apply to those who are here illegally." At this point, South Carolina Republican Rep. Joe Wilson yelled "You lie!", briefly interrupting the speech. Wilson later issued a statement apologizing for his outburst. On September 15, the House approved a "resolution of disapproval" (a reprimand as opposed to formal censure)
FDA approves irritable bowel drug. [SEP] Alosetron // for Drug Evaluation and Research is funded by user fees paid by pharmaceutical manufacturers, and that the reinstatement of alosetron was negotiated in confidential meetings with representatives of GlaxoSmithKline. An article published in the British Medical Journal (BMJ) noted: "By allowing the marketing of alosetron, a drug that poses a serious and significant public health concern according to its own terms, the FDA failed in its mission." Others have argued that the approval process of Lotronex was an example of regulatory capture. Alosetron is indicated only for women with severe diarrhea-predominant irritable bowel syndrome (IBS-D) who have: Severe IBS-D includes:
FDA approves irritable bowel drug. [SEP] Renzapride // one drug, metoclopramide, dopamine D2 receptor antagonist, is FDA approved for the treatment of gastroparesis in the US. Patients treated with metoclopramide are at risk for serious side effects, some of which are permanent, such as tardive dyskinesia, hence limiting the use of metoclopramide to no more than 12 weeks. Renzapride was being investigated for the treatment of constipation-predominant irritable bowel syndrome (IBS-C). It is also potentially effective for irritable bowel syndrome with alternating stool pattern (IBS-A). It is being developed by Alizyme plc of the United Kingdom. As of 23 April 2008, Alizyme ceased all development of renzapride, after
FDA approves irritable bowel drug. [SEP] Tegaserod // Tegaserod Tegaserod is a 5-HT agonist manufactured by Novartis and sold under the names Zelnorm and Zelmac for the management of irritable bowel syndrome and constipation. Approved by the FDA in 2002, it was subsequently removed from the market in 2007 due to FDA concerns about possible adverse cardiovascular effects. Before then, it was the only drug approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration to help relieve the abdominal discomfort, bloating, and constipation associated with irritable bowel syndrome. Its use was also approved to treat chronic idiopathic constipation. The drug functions as a motility stimulant, achieving its desired
FDA approves irritable bowel drug. [SEP] Tegaserod // tegaserod treatment. Currently, tegaserod may only be used in emergency situations only with prior authorization from the FDA. Tegaserod Tegaserod is a 5-HT agonist manufactured by Novartis and sold under the names Zelnorm and Zelmac for the management of irritable bowel syndrome and constipation. Approved by the FDA in 2002, it was subsequently removed from the market in 2007 due to FDA concerns about possible adverse cardiovascular effects. Before then, it was the only drug approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration to help relieve the abdominal discomfort, bloating, and constipation associated with irritable bowel syndrome. Its use
FDA approves irritable bowel drug. [SEP] Alosetron // the approval of a supplemental New Drug Application (sNDA) that allows restricted marketing of Lotronex (alosetron hydrochloride), to treat only women with severe diarrhea-predominant irritable bowel syndrome (IBS). The strict prescribing guidelines initially introduced in 2002 were relaxed slightly in 2016, enabling electronic prescriptions among other benefits. It is not known whether alosetron has been filed for registration in the EU. GSK sold "Lotronex" to the Californian corporation Prometheus in late 2007. Since 2015, generic versions of alosetron have been available in the US, sold by a number of different companies including Actavis Pharma Company, Prometheus Laboratories and Sebela Pharmaceuticals
FDA approves irritable bowel drug. [SEP] Plecanatide // including the CIC3 and National CIC3 trials. The latest Phase II trial for CIC concluded in March 2016. There have also been multiple Phase III trials for Plecanatide in its pursuit of an IBS-C indication, the latest of which was completed in June 2017. In January 2016, an NDA was filed with the FDA and by April a PDUFA action date had been assigned. As noted above, Plecanatide was approved for use in CIC in January 2017. A sNDA was filed in March 2017 to add an additional indication of irritable bowl syndrome with constipation (IBS-C) and a PDUFA date
FDA approves irritable bowel drug. [SEP] Irritable bowel syndrome // other medications in this specific category. Benefits may include reduced diarrhea, reduced abdominal cramps, and improved general well-being. Any nausea present may also respond to 5HT3 antagonists owing to their antiemetic properties. Serotonin stimulates the gut motility and so agonists can help constipation-predominant irritable bowel, while antagonists can help diarrhea-predominant irritable bowel. Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, SSRIs, frequently prescribed for panic and/or anxiety disorder and depression, affect serotonin in the gut, as well as the brain. The bowels are highly dependent on serotonin for neural communication. "Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor antidepressants seem to promote global well-being in some patients with
FDA approves irritable bowel drug. [SEP] Alosetron // Alosetron Alosetron (original brand name: Lotronex ; originator: GSK) is a 5-HT antagonist used for the management of severe diarrhea-predominant irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) in women only. It is currently marketed by Prometheus Laboratories Inc. (San Diego). Alosetron was withdrawn from the market in 2000 owing to the occurrence of serious life-threatening gastrointestinal adverse effects, but was reintroduced in 2002 with availability and use restricted. Alosetron was originally approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) on February 9, 2000, after a seven-month review. At the time of the initial approval U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) reviewers found
FDA approves irritable bowel drug. [SEP] Lubiprostone // adults, as well as irritable bowel syndrome associated with constipation in women. Lubiprostone is approved to treat chronic idiopathic constipation (CIC) in adults. Lubiprostone is also approved to treat opioid-induced constipation, in adults with chronic non-cancer pain. The effectiveness of lubiprostone has not been established in patients who are taking a diphenylheptane opioid (e.g., methadone). Lubiprostone is approved to treat irritable bowel syndrome with constipation (IBS-C) in women 18 years of age and older. As of 12 November 2014, lubiprostone has not been studied in children. There is current research underway to determine the safety and efficacy in postoperative bowel
FDA approves irritable bowel drug. [SEP] Linaclotide // Trulance, was approved by the FDA for the treatment of chronic idiopathic constipation (CIC), and is likewise an agonist of guanylate cyclase, except with hexadecapeptide structure. In 2017 the list price for linaclotide in the US was $378 for 30 pills and plecanatide was priced the same; Allergan and Ironwood increased the price of linaclotide to around $414 in 2018. Linaclotide Linaclotide (marketed under the trade name Linzess in the US and Mexico, and as Constella elsewhere) is a drug used to treat irritable bowel syndrome with constipation and chronic constipation with no known cause. It has a black box
Certain diabetes drugs found to double bone fracture risk in women [SEP] Rosiglitazone // with those given metformin or glyburide. The information was based on data from the ADOPT trial The same increase has been found with pioglitazone (Actos), another thiazolidinedione. A meta-analysis of 10 RCTs, involving 13,715 patients and including both rosiglitazone- and pioglitazone-treated patients, showed an overall 45% increased risk of fracture with thiazolidone use compared with placebo or active comparator. It doubled the risk of fractures among women with type 2 diabetes, without a significant increase in risk of fractures among men with type 2 diabetes. The risk of hypoglycaemia is reduced with thiazolidinediones when compared with sulfonylureas; the risk is
Certain diabetes drugs found to double bone fracture risk in women [SEP] Osteoporosis // fractures, does not affect the risk of nonvertebral fracture. And while it reduces the risk of breast cancer, it increases the risk of blood clots and strokes. Denosumab is also effective for preventing osteoporotic fractures but not in males. In hypogonadal men, testosterone has been shown to improve bone quantity and quality, but, as of 2008, no studies evaluated its effect on fracture risk or in men with a normal testosterone levels. Calcitonin while once recommended is no longer due to the associated risk of cancer and questionable effect on fracture risk. Certain medications like alendronate, etidronate, risedronate, raloxifene, and
Certain diabetes drugs found to double bone fracture risk in women [SEP] Dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry // fragility fracture, use of glucocorticoids, heavy smoking, excess alcohol intake, rheumatoid arthritis, history of parental hip fracture, chronic renal and liver disease, chronic respiratory disease, long-term use of phenobarbital or phenytoin, celiac disease, inflammatory bowel disease, and other risks. The World Health Organization has defined the following categories based on bone density in white women: The WHO committee did not have enough data to create definitions for men or other ethnic groups. Special considerations are involved in the use of DXA to assess bone mass in children. Specifically, comparing the bone mineral density of children to the reference data of
Certain diabetes drugs found to double bone fracture risk in women [SEP] Elagolix // limited. In women with risk factors for bone loss and osteoporosis, such as a history of low-trauma fracture, assessment of BMD may be considered. Elagolix should not be used in premenopausal women with known osteoporosis. Supplementation with calcium and/or vitamin D during treatment with elagolix has not been studied, but may be beneficial for helping to maintain bone health. Elagolix decreases the amount, intensity, and duration of menstrual bleeding. Amenorrhea, the cessation of menstruation, was observed in 4 to 17% of women with 150 mg once per day and in 7 to 57% of women with 200 mg twice per
Certain diabetes drugs found to double bone fracture risk in women [SEP] Arzoxifene // and hip mineral density and had no effect on the uterus and endometrium. Lilly announced in August 2009 that preliminary results from a five-year clinical study showed that arzoxifene met its primary endpoints of reduction in vertebral fractures and breast cancer in postmenopausal women. However arzoxifene failed to meet secondary endpoints of reduction in non-vertebral fractures and cardiovascular events and improvements in cognitive function. Based on these results, Lilly announced they are discontinuing further development of the drug and would not seek regulatory approval. A 2015 network meta-analysis found that arzoxifene significantly reduced the risk of breast cancer ( =
Certain diabetes drugs found to double bone fracture risk in women [SEP] Women's Health Initiative // outcomes. Women in the CaD trial were already participating in the HT trial, the DM trial, or both. In addition to the global exclusion criteria, component-specific exclusion criteria hypercalcemia, renal calculi, corticosteroid use, and calcitriol use. Among the intervention cohort, a small but significant improvement in hip bone density was observed, although a significant reduction in hip fractures was not observed. However, subgroup analysis revealed a possible benefit to older women in terms of a reduced risk of hip fractures, attributable to calcium plus vitamin D supplementation. It was also found that the intervention did not have an effect on
Certain diabetes drugs found to double bone fracture risk in women [SEP] Gliflozin // diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA). They can also contribute euglycemic DKA (euDKA) because of the renal tubular absorption of ketone bodies. In September 2015 FDA issued a warning related to canagliflozin (Invokana®) and canagliflozin/metformin (Invokamet®) due to decreased bone mineral density and therefore increased risk of bone fractures. Using gliflozins in combination therapy with metformin can lower the risk of hypoglycemia compared to other T2BM such as sulfonylureas and insulin. Increased risk of lower limb amputation is associated with canagliflozin but further data is needed to confirm this risk associated with different gliflozins. Interactions are important for SGLT2 inhibitors because most T2DM
Certain diabetes drugs found to double bone fracture risk in women [SEP] Bone // called "postmenopausal osteoporosis", but may develop in men and premenopausal women in the presence of particular hormonal disorders and other chronic diseases or as a result of smoking and medications, specifically glucocorticoids. Osteoporosis usually has no symptoms until a fracture occurs. For this reason, DEXA scans are often done in people with one or more risk factors, who have developed osteoporosis and are at risk of fracture. Osteoporosis treatment includes advice to stop smoking, decrease alcohol consumption, exercise regularly, and have a healthy diet. Calcium and trace mineral supplements may also be advised, as may Vitamin D. When medication is
Certain diabetes drugs found to double bone fracture risk in women [SEP] Teriparatide // 2015 each dose costs between 579 and 967 USD. Teriparatide is the only anabolic (i.e., bone growing) agent indicated for use in postmenopausal women with osteoporosis at a high risk for fracture or with a history of osteoporotic fracture, patients with multiple risk factors for fracture, and for patients who have failed or are intolerant to other available osteoporosis therapy. It has been FDA-approved since 2002. It is effective in growing bone (e.g., 8% increase in bone density in the spine after one year) and reducing the risk of fragility fractures. Osteoporosis medications are generally safe, but some side effects
Certain diabetes drugs found to double bone fracture risk in women [SEP] Thiazolidinedione // other risk factors for bladder cancer such as cigarette smoking, family history, or exposure to certain forms of chemotherapy. Thiazolidinediones reduce bone mineral density and increase the risk of fractures in women, possibly as a result of biasing the differentiationof bone marrow stromal cells away from osteoblast differentiation and toward adipocyte formation. Thiazolidinedione The thiazolidinediones , abbreviated as TZD, also known as glitazones after the prototypical drug ciglitazone, are a class of heterocyclic compounds consisting of a five-membered CNS ring. The term usually refers to a family of drugs used in the treatment of diabetes mellitus type 2 that were
“The CDC may have to stop calling COVID-19 an ‘epidemic’ due to a remarkably low death rate.” [SEP] Patrick S. Moore // from the University of California, Berkeley. As an epidemiologist working at the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), he developed widely used international guidelines to control meningococcal meningitis epidemics and led a team of CDC epidemiologists during the 1992 Somali Civil War. Civilian death rates documented during this civil war-famine were among the highest ever reported. The extreme mortality statistics helped to solidify international support behind the US-led military intervention Operation Restore Hope. He received the CDC Langmuir Prize for his work on epidemic meningitis control. After leaving the CDC, Moore served briefly as a New York City
“The CDC may have to stop calling COVID-19 an ‘epidemic’ due to a remarkably low death rate.” [SEP] Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report // Children's National Medical Center in Washington, actually found a marked increase in high-level results from 2001 to 2004, among small children. The results of Marc Edwards "et al." came from analysis of the same raw data as those underlying the 2004 CDC report. In 2007, Edwards wrote to the CDC's associate director of science, James Stephens, questioning the report's conclusions and methodology, and the competence of its principal author. In 2008, Stephens answered him: "We have examined CDC's role in the study and have found no evidence of misconduct." According to Salon, there was an evident dip in critical year
“The CDC may have to stop calling COVID-19 an ‘epidemic’ due to a remarkably low death rate.” [SEP] Victor C. Vaughan // the very young and very old, was killing men in prime physical condition, leading him to warn, "If the epidemic continues its mathematical rate of acceleration, civilization could easily disappear from the face of the earth." By the time the epidemic ran its course, over a million troops were afflicted with influenza, and 30,000 of them died; 675,000 people died in the United States as a whole. Following his resignation as dean on June 30, 1921, Vaughan accepted a one-year appointment as chairman of the Division of Medical Sciences at the National Research Council. The Vaughans moved to Chevy Chase,
“The CDC may have to stop calling COVID-19 an ‘epidemic’ due to a remarkably low death rate.” [SEP] 2011 United States listeriosis outbreak // others with compromised immune systems", the median age of all the people that had been infected was 78. On September 30, an update was released by the CDC, reporting that as of 11 am (EDT) Sep 29, 2011 the number of confirmed cases was 84, number of deaths was 15 and the number of states involved was 19. On October 4, the CDC updated their report to 100 infected individuals in 20 states and a total of 18 deaths from the outbreak. The outbreak was shown to have continued to spread to new states, with the CDC update on October
“The CDC may have to stop calling COVID-19 an ‘epidemic’ due to a remarkably low death rate.” [SEP] 1993 Four Corners hantavirus outbreak // stopped breathing and the paramedics were performing cardiopulmonary resuscitation. The young man could not be revived by doctors and died. The physicians, recalling the similar symptoms and death of the young woman, reported his death to the New Mexico Department of Health. New Mexico state health officials notified the Centers for Disease Control (CDC). Within a week, a task force had formed in Albuquerque that included Bruce Tempest, chief of medicine at the Indian Medical Center. Tempest quickly discovered that five people, including the young man’s fiancée, as well as an Arizona resident, all had experienced the same symptoms and
“The CDC may have to stop calling COVID-19 an ‘epidemic’ due to a remarkably low death rate.” [SEP] Maiztegui National Human Viral Disease Institute // 1,000 people annually and claimed up to a 30% mortality rate in its early years. One of its researchers, Dr. Julio Isidro Maiztegui, developed breakthrough in the treatment of the disease in 1971 when he devised the introduction of blood plasma from recovered patients in saline solution to those whose exposure had taken place under eight days earlier. The treatment, which reduced motality rates from 30% to around 1% of those infected, led to greater support for the work at CEMIC, and in 1978, the National Institute of Hemorrhagic Viruses (INVH) was established in Pergamino, with Dr. Maiztegui as its
“The CDC may have to stop calling COVID-19 an ‘epidemic’ due to a remarkably low death rate.” [SEP] Marburg virus disease // or alopecia. Importantly, MARV is known to be able to persist in some survivors and to either reactivate and cause a secondary bout of MVD or to be transmitted via sperm, causing secondary cases of infection and disease. Of the 252 people who contracted Marburg during the 2004–2005 outbreak of a particularly virulent serotype in Angola, 227 died, for a case fatality rate of 90%. Although all age groups are susceptible to infection, children are rarely infected. In the 1998–2000 Congo epidemic, only 8% of the cases were children less than 5 years old. MVD was first documented in 1967,
“The CDC may have to stop calling COVID-19 an ‘epidemic’ due to a remarkably low death rate.” [SEP] Daniel L. Ritchie // he was at its helm. As Ritchie recalled in a 2005 article honoring his legacy, an affiliate station in San Francisco came to him with solid reporting about a new plague that was terrifying the medical community. The story was so startling—and its ramifications so serious—that Ritchie said he knew it merited national attention. Ritchie and his team decided to cancel the corporation’s prime-time lineup in favor of a report chronicling the virus. “It cost us money not to have prime-time programming,” he explained, noting that no company wanted its products promoted during such an alarming program. Nonetheless, he said,
“The CDC may have to stop calling COVID-19 an ‘epidemic’ due to a remarkably low death rate.” [SEP] Contagion (film) // kidnappings were widespread, and the doses were placebos, Orantes rushes back to warn the villagers, exhibiting Stockholm Syndrome. By Day 26, the death toll had reached at least 2.5 million in the U.S. and 26 million worldwide. The discovery, production and initial deliveries of vaccine took until Day 133, with vaccinations to run until nearly Day 500. The final death toll is not seen. Dr. Hextall places samples of MEV-1 in cryogenic storage, alongside samples of H1N1 and SARS. The source of the virus is revealed to viewers. A bulldozer owned by AIMM Alderson, the same company Beth worked for,
“The CDC may have to stop calling COVID-19 an ‘epidemic’ due to a remarkably low death rate.” [SEP] Epidemic! // Epidemic! Epidemic! is a turn-based strategy game in which the player stands in control of a world on the brink of extinction. It was developed by Steven Faber for the Apple II and published by Strategic Simulations in 1982. It was ported to the Atari 8-bit family. A meteorite crashes into Earth, bringing with it an alien virus. The player must stem the epidemic across 14 regions quickly as possible and with minimal loss of life. The player has from 15 to 30 turns, with options ranging from inert methods like interferon, to quarantine, to destruction of a region with
President Obama was arrested in Japan in connection with the seizure of massive amounts of cocaine on his yacht. [SEP] Masashi Tashiro // this five years ago" was not broadcast. He was arrested for possession of amphetamines on September 21, 2004. On February 7, 2005, he was sentenced to 3 years and 6 months imprisonment. On June 26, 2008, he was released from the prison. On September 16, 2010, he was arrested along with a 50-year-old woman in a parking lot in Red Brick Park in Yokohama, Japan for possession of cocaine. According to police he was in possession of two bags of cocaine, and admitted "It is for my own use". When the police guarded against Yokohama because of APEC Japan 2010,
President Obama was arrested in Japan in connection with the seizure of massive amounts of cocaine on his yacht. [SEP] Masashi Tashiro // he and a 50-year-old woman were arrested. Tashiro said he bought cocaine from a DJ. Yokohama District Public Prosecutors' Office indicted him on October 6, 2010. This incident outraged and disappointed his former co-workers and friends again, and many of them made comments publicly regarding this incident. His bandmate Masayuki Suzuki expressed his disappointment and frustration, stating "I have no idea what to say about this affair. I just wanted him to remember the very hard time not only his family and those around him but also that he himself has had. He really is a bonehead." Also, Torata Nanbu,
President Obama was arrested in Japan in connection with the seizure of massive amounts of cocaine on his yacht. [SEP] National Drug Law Enforcement Agency // 585 grams. In September 2009, the NDLEA arrested a Guinean woman en route from Brazil to Europe with 6.350 kg of pure cocaine at the Murtala Mohammed International Airport in Lagos. In 2008 Nigeria was certified by the United States of America in the anti-narcotic crusade, for the eight successive time. President George Bush said that Nigeria had made significant progress in counter narcotics and had effectively co-operated with the United States on drug-related and money laundering cases. In Katsina State alone, one hundred people were convicted for drug offences from January to May 2008, and 358 people were arrested
President Obama was arrested in Japan in connection with the seizure of massive amounts of cocaine on his yacht. [SEP] Operation Seabight // yacht containing more than seventy bales of the substance was seized by a team of European anti-drugs agencies led by Irish authorities. Three men were also apprehended and later each was sentenced to ten years in jail. The seizure came just one day after the fourth man involved in Ireland's previous record haul in 2007 was sentenced to ten years imprisonment. of cocaine valued at €440 million washed up on the Cork coast near Mizen Head following an attempted trafficking scam that failed when one of the men filled their petrol-powered motor engine with diesel. The inflatable launch overturned and
President Obama was arrested in Japan in connection with the seizure of massive amounts of cocaine on his yacht. [SEP] Cartel of the Suns // tons of cocaine on an Air France flight astonished Charles de Gaulle Airport authorities as it was the largest seizure of cocaine recorded in mainland France. On 15 February 2014, a commander for the Venezuelan National Guard was stopped while driving to Valencia with his family and was arrested for having 554 kilos of cocaine in his possession. On 11 November 2015, DEA agents arrested two relatives (an adopted son and a nephew) of Venezuelan president Nicolás Maduro while trying to move 800 kilograms of cocaine from Venezuela to the USA, a source from DEA stated unofficially that there is
President Obama was arrested in Japan in connection with the seizure of massive amounts of cocaine on his yacht. [SEP] Drug lord // setting up community centers. In 2009, the U.S. began requesting his extradition, and in May 2010, a recalcitrant Government of Jamaica issued a warrant. That same month the government took steps to capture Coke. In a run-up to Coke's arrest, more than 70 people–all but one of them civilians–died in a 24 May 2010 raid of Tivoli Gardens. He was arrested at a Jamaican checkpoint on 22 June 2010. Demetrius Flenory is known as one of the co-founders of the Black Mafia Family, a Detroit-based drug-trafficking organization involving the large-scale distribution of cocaine throughout the U.S. from 1990 to 2005.
President Obama was arrested in Japan in connection with the seizure of massive amounts of cocaine on his yacht. [SEP] Nicholas John Baker // Nicholas John Baker Nicholas John 'Nick' Baker is a British citizen who was convicted of smuggling cocaine and ecstasy into Japan. He was arrested at Narita Airport on 13 April 2002 and found guilty by the Chiba Prefecture District Court in June 2003. He was sentenced to 14 years' jail with forced labour and fined ¥5,000,000. At his trial Baker claimed that he was tricked by his travelling companion, James Prunier, into carrying the drugs through customs in a false-bottomed suitcase. Baker also claimed that during his initial detention he was mistreated by Japanese authorities with sleep deprivation, no access
President Obama was arrested in Japan in connection with the seizure of massive amounts of cocaine on his yacht. [SEP] Akbar Pray // of his subordinates were indicted under the federal drug kingpin statute. He was arrested in Boca Raton, Florida by federal authorities, accused of leading an organized cocaine and marijuana trafficking enterprise. Federal officials estimated that his organization distributed 341 kilos of cocaine and 354 kilos of marijuana in less than two years, grossing more than $4.5 million annually. Pray allegedly traveled throughout the United States, making deals and arranging for transportation of narcotics. He also traveled to Colombia and the West Indies to purchase his supply of cocaine. His seven-month trial consisted of the testimony of 126 "document" witnesses, being
President Obama was arrested in Japan in connection with the seizure of massive amounts of cocaine on his yacht. [SEP] Yoshinobu Nishizaki // 2, 1997, police stopped his car on the Tōmei Expressway in Shizuoka after he was driving suspiciously. He was arrested when police found inside his attache case 50g of stimulants, 7g of morphine, 9g of marijuana. While on bail he went to the Philippines on his English-registered cruiser the "Ocean Nine"; he returned to smuggle in an M16 with M203 grenade launcher, a Glock 17, and a large amount of ammunition. January 21, 1999, Nishizaki was sentenced to two years and eight months in prison for the narcotics possession charge. Later on February 1, 1999, he was arrested after a
President Obama was arrested in Japan in connection with the seizure of massive amounts of cocaine on his yacht. [SEP] Corruption in Venezuela // to the meeting a kilogram of the drug so that the informant could understand its quality. On 10 November 2015, Campo Flores and Flores de Freites, were arrested in Port-au-Prince, Haiti by local police while attempting to make a deal to transport 800 kilograms of cocaine destined for New York City and were turned over to the DEA where they were flown directly to the United States. The men flew from a hangar reserved for the President of Venezuela in Simón Bolívar International Airport into Haiti while being assisted by Venezuelan military personnel, which included two presidential honor guards, with
Medicare 5-year cancer bill tops $21.1 bln: study. [SEP] Young Survival Coalition // with survivors, caregivers and the medical, research, advocacy and legislative communities to increase the quality and quantity of life for women diagnosed with breast cancer ages 40 and under." This includes lobbying, speaking engagements, conferences and an annual awareness campaign which educates members of the medical community about breast cancer's prevalence in younger women. In the 2013-2014 fiscal year, ending June 30, 2014, Young Survival Coalition reported approximately US$4.78 million in earnings. Of this, US$4.69 million came from contributions and grants, with $.95 million coming from other revenue. That same fiscal year, YSC reported approximately US$4.56 million in expenses. Of
Medicare 5-year cancer bill tops $21.1 bln: study. [SEP] American Cancer Society Cancer Action Network // health care costs over 25 years. In the Fiscal Year 2012, states will collect $25.6 billion in revenue in tobacco taxes and legal settlements from the 1998 settlement. However, only $45.6 million, or 1.8 percent of that collection will be spent on programs to prevent or stop tobacco use. The CDC recommends $3.7 billion for tobacco cessation and prevention programs, meaning that the allotted $45.6 million is only 12 percent of the recommendation. Of the 50 states, 33 states and the District of Columbia are spending less than a quarter of the recommended amount. Connecticut, Nevada, New Hampshire, Ohio, and
Medicare 5-year cancer bill tops $21.1 bln: study. [SEP] Blinatumomab // acute lymphoblastic leukemia under the FDA's accelerated approval program; marketing authorization depended on the outcome of clinical trials that were ongoing at the time of approval. When blinatumomab was approved, Amgen announced that the price for the drug would be $178,000 per year, which made it the most expensive cancer drug on the market. Merck's pembrolizumab was priced at $150,000 per year when it launched (in Sept 2014). At the time of initial approval, only about 1,000 patient in the US had an indication for blinatumomab. Peter Bach, director of the Center for Health Policy and Outcomes at Memorial Sloan-Kettering
Medicare 5-year cancer bill tops $21.1 bln: study. [SEP] Carolyn Maloney // would be expanded to cover care for a variety of cancers of the lung, trachea, stomach, colon, rectum, liver, bladder, kidney, thyroid and breast. In 2015 when roughly 33,000 responders and survivors were battling an assortment of ailments, Maloney led the effort to extend the bill permanently. After a prolonged and very public push, a total of $8.5 billion in funding was included in the Omnibus Spending bill that was passed in Dec. of 2015 and extended the life of the monitoring and health insurance coverage for 75 years. In the 111th Congress, Maloney introduced "The Breastfeeding Promotion Act" to
Medicare 5-year cancer bill tops $21.1 bln: study. [SEP] Healthcare reform debate in the United States // costs yet no statistical difference in outcome. Such scenarios offer the opportunity to maintain or improve the quality of care, while significantly reducing costs, through comparative effectiveness research. Writing in the "New York Times", David Leonhardt described how the cost of treating the most common form of early-stage, slow-growing prostate cancer ranges from an average of $2,400 (watchful waiting to see if the condition deteriorates) to as high as $100,000 (radiation beam therapy): According to economist Peter A. Diamond and research cited by the Congressional Budget Office (CBO), the cost of healthcare per person in the U.S. also varies significantly
Medicare 5-year cancer bill tops $21.1 bln: study. [SEP] Bevacizumab // of £24,000 to £93,000 per quality-adjusted life year (QALY). The addition of bevacizumab to standard treatment can prolong the lives of breast and lung cancer patients by several months, at a cost of $100,000 a year in the United States. For colorectal cancer, Robert J. Mayer wrote in the New England Journal of Medicine that bevacizumab extended life by 4.7 months (20.3 months vs. 15.6 months) in the initial study, at a cost of $42,800 to $55,000. Costs in other countries vary; in Canada it is reported to cost $40,000 CAD per year. In September 2018 claims from Bayer and
Medicare 5-year cancer bill tops $21.1 bln: study. [SEP] National Breast Cancer Awareness Month // to scrap the program were compared. The total costs to the company of running the early detection program were estimated to be $400,000. Total costs to the company if they chose not to run the program were estimated to be around $1.5 million. Pezzullo (2003) "(Astra)Zeneca’s initial justification for NBCAM was one of basic accounting, not a critique of how women’s healthcare has been assessed or implemented nor a desire to prevent women from developing breast cancer; instead, it was cost-effective for a company to detect cancer in its employees during the disease’s earlier stages." Critics have said that "the
Medicare 5-year cancer bill tops $21.1 bln: study. [SEP] National Breast Cancer Coalition // Early Detection Program. The Act provides federal funding to help cover more than half of the cost to States that opt to cover treatment for these women through Medicaid. Since this legislation was enacted, all 50 States and the District of Columbia have opted into this program. This is a testament to the continued hard work of NBCC grassroots advocates at the State level. In December 2003, the Medicare Modernization Act was signed into law creating a prescription drug benefit for all Medicare beneficiaries effective in 2006. A provision providing transitional coverage for certain cancer drugs, from September 2004 until
Medicare 5-year cancer bill tops $21.1 bln: study. [SEP] Medicare Part D // on average, than Part D. Estimating how much money could be saved if Medicare had been allowed to negotiate drug prices, economist Dean Baker gives a "most conservative high-cost scenario" of $332 billion between 2006 and 2013 (approximately $50 billion a year). Economist Joseph Stiglitz in his book entitled "The Price of Inequality" estimated a "middle-cost scenario" of $563 billion in savings "for the same budget window". Former Congressman Billy Tauzin, R–La., who steered the bill through the House, retired soon after and took a $2 million a year job as president of Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America (PhRMA),
Medicare 5-year cancer bill tops $21.1 bln: study. [SEP] Anna Westin Act // versus $188 research dollars for Autism and $682 research dollars for Breast Cancer. On May 21, 2015, Congressman Ted Deutch (D-FL-21) and Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL-27) introduced the bill in the House of Representatives. On July 27, 2015, Senator Amy Klobuchar (D-MN) and Senator Kelly Ayotte (R-NH) introduced the bill in the Senate with support and leadership from Senators Tammy Baldwin (D-WI) and Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV). The Anna Westin Act of 2015 is written to help those affected by eating disorders get the care they need by focusing on improved training and clarity of mental health parity. The bill
Hospital closings hit hard on the edge of the Rust Belt. [SEP] Lewistown, Pennsylvania // Lewistown as the rural focus of the ongoing heroin epidemic in the USA. The 2000s saw the loss of Scottys Fashions, Mann Edge Tool, Overhead Door shuttering its Sectional division, Ford New Holland shuttered its Belleville plant which also led to the closing of the Belleville Foundry, and the shrinking Lewistown Hospital was purchased by Geisinger Health, who further reduced services, requiring helicopter transfers for common ailments such as heart attacks. Two positives in the years since Agnes was the 2011 purchase of Standard Steel by the Japanese company Sumitomo Industries, which effectively saved the jobs of 500 union laborers
Hospital closings hit hard on the edge of the Rust Belt. [SEP] U.S. Steel // work stoppage, USX announced that four USX plants would remain closed permanently, eliminating about 3,500 union jobs. The closure of many plants created the term "rust belt" for a region of idle and derelict factories. Corporate raider Carl Icahn launched a hostile takeover of the steel giant in late 1986 in the midst of the work stoppage. He conducted separate negotiations with the union and with management and proceeded to have proxy battles with shareholders and management. But he abandoned all efforts to buy out the company on January 8, 1987, a few weeks before union employees returned to work.
Hospital closings hit hard on the edge of the Rust Belt. [SEP] Florida Hospital Wauchula // a TV movie, "Switched at Birth", that had aired the previous year. According to Schwartz-Nobel, Hardee Memorial was forced into bankruptcy due to the legal battle concerning the baby swap. Hardee Memorial closed in July 1992. Soon after Florida Hospital Heartland Division, which ran hospitals in Sebring, Florida, and Lake Placid, Florida, obtained the closed hospital and has been running it ever since. Florida Hospital expanded services at Wauchula soon after reopening the hospital. The emergency and outpatient departments opened in 1993. The emergency department expanded from seven to fourteen beds in 2009 and upgraded its equipment. Seriously ill patients
Hospital closings hit hard on the edge of the Rust Belt. [SEP] St. John Riverview Hospital // the Detroit Medical Center. The St. John Riverview Hospital was unprofitable for the hospital system. The healthcare system planned to close the hospital by the end of June 2007. Clergy and medical leaders and the union representing the workers protested the proposed closure, arguing that the closure would cause hundreds of people to lose their jobs and hinder healthcare access for thousands of area residents. In May 2007 officials from the hospital area union leaders, and area religious leaders were scheduled to meet officials from the Detroit City Council to discuss what would happen if the hospital closed. That year,
Hospital closings hit hard on the edge of the Rust Belt. [SEP] Philadelphia State Hospital at Byberry // rediscover Byberry after it closed. The buildings were not demolished at first because of asbestos poisoning concerns. Looters broke in several weeks after the closing and began to steal everything of value, especially copper piping and wiring. After the looters had removed everything of value, vandals trespassed on the grounds, smashed windows, and started fires. Urban explorers wandered the halls and the extensive underground network that connected each building though tunnel corridors. By 2000 Byberry saw an explosion of people visiting the abandoned hospital. The internet offered extremely exaggerated stories and legends, as well tips on gaining access to the
Hospital closings hit hard on the edge of the Rust Belt. [SEP] Michael Reese Hospital // end of 2008. The 48-acre campus was then vacated by January 2009 and calls to the main number were greeted by: "We're sorry. All circuits are busy now. Please try your call again later." From 2007 to its closing, Michael Reese had been owned by Envision Hospital Corporation of Scottsdale, Arizona. The hospital officially closed August 31, 2009. At one time, the hospital had a large health plan which included 300,000 patients; at the time of the hospital's closure the health plan was terminated and it only had 2,900 clients. The streets through the campus were closed and demolition began
Hospital closings hit hard on the edge of the Rust Belt. [SEP] Pascack Valley Hospital // a memorandum of understanding with PVH to acquire the hospital, with plans to keep the facility operating as a full acute-care hospital. Ultimately, Pascack's agreement with HUMC fell through, and on September 24, 2007, the hospital filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy, with plans to liquidate the hospital's assets. In anticipation of closure, PVH began to limit its admissions. On November 21, the facility stopped providing medical care, and the administrative remaining departments closed shortly thereafter. Days before the hospital closed in November 2007, the certificate of need for the hospital's mobile intensive care unit (which had provided advanced life support
Hospital closings hit hard on the edge of the Rust Belt. [SEP] Traverse City State Hospital // Munson hospital, the Pavilions, Garfield Township and (later) T.M.G. However, changes in the law and mental health care philosophies brought on the decline of the institution. The farm on the grounds closed in the 1950s, with most of its buildings demolished in the mid-1970s. In 1963, the main 1885 center wing of Building 50 was destroyed because it was deemed a fire hazard and a new modern building was put up in its place. Use of the hospital slowly declined, and it was closed in 1989, with a loss of over 200 jobs to the local economy. Over the next
Hospital closings hit hard on the edge of the Rust Belt. [SEP] Cooper Green Mercy Hospital // extensive renovations and modernization of systems. Brasfield & Gorrie was general contractor for the project. In May 2009, Birmingham mayor Larry Langford suggested that the city of Birmingham take over operation of the hospital, predicting that the county would try to shut it down amid cost-cutting measures in the wake of a massive County debt crisis. Indeed, Jefferson County, Alabama, did file for voluntary relief under Chapter 9 of the United States Bankruptcy Code on November 9, 2011. His concerns proved unfounded, however. While the County Commission did vote 3 to 2 on August 28, 2012, to close the inpatient
Hospital closings hit hard on the edge of the Rust Belt. [SEP] Homer G. Phillips Hospital // responded with protests, and more than a hundred police officers were required to control the crowd and to escort remaining patients out. William Lacy Clay, Sr. led opposition to the closure, and many in the community charged that the closure was racially motivated. Picketing and protests outside the hospital continued for more than a year after the closure, and a community group called Campaign for Human Dignity was formed to continue the movement. Mayor James F. Conway commissioned a task force to study the issue of the hospital, but nothing resulted of the plan. The protests were ultimately unsuccessful in
Phyllis Schlafly Says broken compact fluorescent light bulbs "allegedly cause migraines and epilepsy attacks. [SEP] Fluorescent lamps and health // of light. Very photosensitive individuals with systemic lupus erythematosus may experience disease activity under artificial light. Standard acrylic diffusers over the fluorescent lamps absorb nearly all the UV-B radiation and appear to protect against this. One paper suggested that in rare cases, fluorescent lighting can also induce depersonalization and derealization; subsequently, it can worsen depersonalization disorder symptoms. The charity Migraine Action Association reported concerns from members that CFL bulbs can cause migraines, and there are many anecdotal reports of such occurrences. Fluorescent lamps and health Fluorescent lamps have been suggested to affect human health in various ways. New lighting systems
Phyllis Schlafly Says broken compact fluorescent light bulbs "allegedly cause migraines and epilepsy attacks. [SEP] Fluorescent lamp // a sealed plastic bag. Vacuum cleaners can cause the particles to become airborne, and should not be used. Fluorescent lamps with magnetic ballasts flicker at a normally unnoticeable frequency of 100 or 120 Hz and this flickering can cause problems for some individuals with light sensitivity; they are listed as problematic for some individuals with autism, epilepsy, lupus, chronic fatigue syndrome, Lyme disease, and vertigo. Newer fluorescent lights without magnetic ballasts have essentially eliminated flicker. Fluorescent lamps emit a small amount of ultraviolet (UV) light. A 1993 study in the US found that ultraviolet exposure from sitting under fluorescent lights
Phyllis Schlafly Says broken compact fluorescent light bulbs "allegedly cause migraines and epilepsy attacks. [SEP] Compact fluorescent lamp // of broken CFLs, as well as ways to avoid breakage, on its web site. It recommends airing out the room and carefully disposing of broken pieces in a jar. A Maine Department of Environmental Protection (DEP) study of 2008 comparing clean-up methods warns that using plastic bags to store broken CFL bulbs is dangerous because vapors well above safe levels continue to leak from the bags. The EPA and the Maine DEP recommend a sealed glass jar as the best repository for a broken bulb. Health and environmental concerns about mercury have prompted many jurisdictions to require spent lamps to
Phyllis Schlafly Says broken compact fluorescent light bulbs "allegedly cause migraines and epilepsy attacks. [SEP] Photosensitive epilepsy // QC test. Previously, the Harding FPA Test was used to assess content, however this has been replaced by software such as Vidchecker. This is an objective standard of assessment of potential to trigger seizures in the susceptible population. This test is not currently required internationally. When functioning correctly, mains-powered fluorescent lighting has a flicker rate sufficiently high (twice the mains frequency, typically 100 Hz or 120 Hz) to reduce the occurrence of problems. However, a faulty fluorescent lamp can flicker at a much lower rate and trigger seizures. Newer high-efficiency compact fluorescent lamps (CFL) with electronic ballast circuits operate at
Phyllis Schlafly Says broken compact fluorescent light bulbs "allegedly cause migraines and epilepsy attacks. [SEP] Compact fluorescent lamp // again. According to the European Commission Scientific Committee on Emerging and Newly Identified Health Risks (SCENIHR) in 2008, CFLs may pose an added health risk due to the ultraviolet and blue light emitted. This radiation could aggravate symptoms in people who already suffer skin conditions that make them exceptionally sensitive to light. The light produced by some single-envelope CFLs at distances of less than could lead to ultraviolet exposures approaching the current workplace limit set to protect workers from skin and retinal damage. However, industry sources claim the UV radiation received from CFLs is too small to contribute to skin
Phyllis Schlafly Says broken compact fluorescent light bulbs "allegedly cause migraines and epilepsy attacks. [SEP] Compact fluorescent lamp // by one bulb can temporarily exceed U.S. federal guidelines for chronic exposure. "Chronic", however, implies exposure for a significant time, and it remains unclear what the health risks are from short-term exposure to low levels of elemental mercury. Despite following EPA best-practice clean-up guidelines on broken CFLs, researchers were unable to remove mercury from carpet, and agitation of the carpet — such as by young children playing — created localized concentrations as high as 0.025 mg/m in air close to the carpet, even weeks after the initial breakage. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has published best practices for cleanup
Phyllis Schlafly Says broken compact fluorescent light bulbs "allegedly cause migraines and epilepsy attacks. [SEP] Mercury poisoning // Agency recommends evacuating and airing out a room for at least 15 minutes after breaking a fluorescent light bulb. Breakage of multiple bulbs presents a greater concern. A 1987 report described a 23-month-old toddler who suffered anorexia, weight loss, irritability, profuse sweating, and peeling and redness of fingers and toes. This case of acrodynia was traced to exposure of mercury from a carton of 8-foot fluorescent light bulbs that had broken in a potting shed adjacent to the main nursery. The glass was cleaned up and discarded, but the child often used the area to play in . Mercury has
Phyllis Schlafly Says broken compact fluorescent light bulbs "allegedly cause migraines and epilepsy attacks. [SEP] Over illumination // fatigue, medically defined stress, anxiety, and decreases in sexual function. Some studies attribute migraine headaches to overly intense light, while others linked it with certain spectral distributions. In one survey bright light was the number two trigger (affecting 47% of respondents) for causing a migraine episode. Fatigue is another common complaint from individuals exposed to over illumination, especially with fluorescent media. Likewise, over illumination can also cause stress and anxiety. In fact, natural light was preferred over purely artificial light by office workers from both eastern and western cultures. In addition, over illumination can cause medical stress and even aggravate
Phyllis Schlafly Says broken compact fluorescent light bulbs "allegedly cause migraines and epilepsy attacks. [SEP] Compact fluorescent lamp // was attributable to damage in the bulbs' internal phosphor coatings. No cellular damage was observed following exposure to incandescent light of equivalent intensity. The study's authors suggest that the ultraviolet exposure could be limited by the use of "double-walled" bulbs manufactured with an additional glass covering surrounding the phosphor-coated layer. When the base of the bulb is not made to be flame-retardant, as required in the voluntary standard for CFLs, overheating of the electrical components in the bulb may create a fire hazard. CFLs, like all fluorescent lamps, contain mercury as vapor inside the glass tubing. Most CFLs contain 3–5
Phyllis Schlafly Says broken compact fluorescent light bulbs "allegedly cause migraines and epilepsy attacks. [SEP] Fluorescent lamps and health // Fluorescent lamps and health Fluorescent lamps have been suggested to affect human health in various ways. New lighting systems have not used magnetic ballasts since the turn of the century, however some older installations still remain. Fluorescent lamps with magnetic ballasts flicker at a normally unnoticeable frequency of 50 or 60 Hz. This flickering can cause problems for some individuals with light sensitivity and are associated with headaches and eyestrain. Such lamps are listed as problematic for some individuals with autism, epilepsy, lupus, chronic fatigue syndrome, Lyme disease, and vertigo. Newer fluorescent lights without magnetic ballasts have essentially eliminated flicker.
The school shooting rate in non-Christian Japan is vastly lower than that of mostly Christian Texas. [SEP] Human rights in Japan // the police reported 13,037 cases of child abuse including sexual abuse and death. Incidents of violence in schools, severe bullying ("ijime") and bullycide also continued to be a societal and government concern. According to the Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology Ministry, public elementary school children committed a record 1,777 violent acts in the 2003 academic year, an increase of 27% from the previous school year, including acts of violence committed both on and off school grounds. In all 35,392 violent acts were committed in public elementary, junior high, and high schools during the 2003 academic year. Overall, cases of
The school shooting rate in non-Christian Japan is vastly lower than that of mostly Christian Texas. [SEP] Gun violence // similarly wealthy nations with strict gun control laws, such as Japan, the United Kingdom, or South Korea, the United States has an overall rate of firearms death per capita, which is 50–100 times greater than many of its peers. The high rates of gun violence in the United States, which has the highest rate of gun-related deaths per capita among developed countries, despite having the highest number of police officers, is sometimes thought to be attributable to its extreme rate of gun ownership, as it is the only nation in which guns exceed people. Nearly all studies have found a
The school shooting rate in non-Christian Japan is vastly lower than that of mostly Christian Texas. [SEP] Religion in Japan // million Christians in Japan, most of them living in the western part of the country, where the missionaries' activities were greatest during the 16th century. Nagasaki Prefecture has the highest percentage of Christians: about 5.1% in 1996. As of 2007 there are 32,036 Christian priests and pastors in Japan. Throughout the latest century, some Western customs originally related to Christianity (including Western style weddings, Valentine's Day and Christmas) have become popular among many of the Japanese. For example, 60-70% of weddings performed in Japan are Christian-style. Islam (イスラム教 "Isuramukyō") in Japan is mostly represented by small immigrant communities from other
The school shooting rate in non-Christian Japan is vastly lower than that of mostly Christian Texas. [SEP] Christianity in Japan // one of the most secular nations in the world according to the World Values Survey. While there may be up to 3 million Japanese Christians, Christianity in Japan is spread among many denominational affiliations. 70 percent of Japanese churches have an average attendance of less than 30, though membership is often double this figure. The celebration of selected Christian holidays has gained popularity in Japan since the Second World War – primarily as commercial events, but with also an emphasis on sharing time with loved ones, either significant others or close family. Except in Japan's minority Christian communities, Easter is
The school shooting rate in non-Christian Japan is vastly lower than that of mostly Christian Texas. [SEP] Education in Japan // age group of 15-24 had committed suicide, much of which was due to academic pressure. A survey by the Education Ministry showed that students at public schools were involved in a record number of violent incidents in 2007: 52,756 cases, an increase of some 8,000 on the previous year. In almost 7,000 of these incidents, teachers were the target of assault. The Japanese educational system has also been criticized for failure to foster independent thinkers with cultural and artistic sensibility. Japanese students that attend schools overseas often face difficulty adapting and competing in that environment due to lack of international
The school shooting rate in non-Christian Japan is vastly lower than that of mostly Christian Texas. [SEP] Marriage in Japan // and appropriate. Along with various Buddhist and Shinto rites, Christian wedding ceremonies are now one of the occasions where nonreligious Japanese rely on religious professionals. Nonreligious attitudes are responsible for significant transformations in Japanese Christianity and the bridal industry and the successful response of the Christian churches and the bridal industry to consumer demand has led to an explosion in Christian wedding ceremonies. The story of contemporary Japanese Christianity is one of success and failure in the face of overwhelming “nonreligiousness.” The story of failure depicts the inability of Christian churches to acquire Japanese converts; both transplant and domestic Japanese
The school shooting rate in non-Christian Japan is vastly lower than that of mostly Christian Texas. [SEP] Japan // into Japan by Jesuit missions starting in 1549. Today, fewer than 1% to 2.3% are Christians, most of them living in the western part of the country, where the missionaries' activities were greatest during the 16th century. Nagasaki Prefecture has the highest percentage of Christians: about 5.1% in 1996. , there are 32,036 Christian priests and pastors in Japan. Throughout the latest century, some Western customs originally related to Christianity (including Western style weddings, Valentine's Day and Christmas) have become popular as secular customs among many Japanese. Islam in Japan is estimated to constitute, about 80–90%, of foreign born migrants
The school shooting rate in non-Christian Japan is vastly lower than that of mostly Christian Texas. [SEP] The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in Japan // rooted religious and cultural belief systems that have lasted for centuries, converting to another religion was associated with becoming non-Japanese. The second event that created challenges for LDS missionaries in Japan was the Tokyo subway sarin attack by Aum Shinrikyō. This attack, which killed twelve and injured more than five thousand people, greatly affected the Japanese people. It caused fear of and a resentment to Japanese New Religions and the Japanese people had a hard time distinguishing between proselytizing LDS missionaries and New Religions. Japan is culturally and historically a non-Christian nation. This poses problems in LDS missionary work, because
The school shooting rate in non-Christian Japan is vastly lower than that of mostly Christian Texas. [SEP] Marriage in Japan // churches face aging membership and dwindling baptism numbers. In 2006, Christians accounted for 1.2 percent of the Japanese population. Similarly, Christian religious organizations accounted for a mere 2.3 percent of Japan’s 182,468 religious juridical persons. This data, along with an aging church population, led researchers to suggest that a marginal Christian population is headed for rapid decline. However, these statistics on Christian affiliation do not account for the unprecedented popularity of Christian wedding ceremonies or address how nonreligiousness has altered Japanese Christianity. The growing popularity of Christian weddings dates back to two events in the 1980s. The first was the
The school shooting rate in non-Christian Japan is vastly lower than that of mostly Christian Texas. [SEP] Japan // just 18 refugees for resettlement, while the United States took in 76,000. Japan suffers from a high suicide rate. In 2009, the number of suicides exceeded 30,000 for the twelfth successive year. Suicide is the leading cause of death for people under 30. Primary schools, secondary schools and universities were introduced in 1872 as a result of the Meiji Restoration. Since 1947, compulsory education in Japan comprises elementary and junior high school, which together last for nine years (from age 6 to age 15). Almost all children continue their education at a three-year senior high school. Japan's education system played
Rhode Island law aims to prevent suicides at public colleges. [SEP] LGBT rights in Rhode Island // identity and expression, and mental, physical and sensory disability. The law also explicitly includes cyberbullying and harassment, and applies to all schools approved by the state Department of Education. Rhode Island has a criminal statute covering crimes motivated by both sexual orientation and gender identity or expression. In June 2018, a bill to repeal the gay and trans panic defense passed the Rhode Island General Assembly (House vote 68–2 passed and Senate voice vote 27-0 passed). The Governor signed the bill into law a month later in July 2018. The law went into effect immediately. On January 27, 2017, state
Rhode Island law aims to prevent suicides at public colleges. [SEP] Gun laws in Rhode Island // considering the general antagonism of local police chiefs towards concealed carry, it seems unlikely that such a permit would be issued. 11–47–8 does allow an out-of-state permit carrier to carry concealed in Rhode Island as long as they are only traveling through the state. Rhode Island has a moderately strong castle law, limited to the inside of a dwelling, with no duty to retreat. Under the state's red flag law, the police may petition the Superior Court to issue an extreme risk protection order if they receive credible information of a significant and imminent risk. A judge may issue a
Rhode Island law aims to prevent suicides at public colleges. [SEP] Rhode Island // of Hope", supported by a $100,000 grant, will partner with the City of Providence, the Soutside Community Land Trust and the Rhode Island Foundation to convert city-owned vacant lots into productive urban farms. In 2012, Rhode Island passed bill S2277/H7412, "An act relating to Health and Safety – Environmental Cleanup Objectives for Schools", informally known as the "School Siting Bill." The bill, sponsored by Senator Juan Pichardo and Representative Scott Slater and signed into law by the Governor, made Rhode Island the first state in the US to prohibit school construction on Brownfield Sites where there is an ongoing potential
Rhode Island law aims to prevent suicides at public colleges. [SEP] Rhode Island Board of Governors for Higher Education // and affordable system of higher education designed to improve the overall educational attainment of Rhode Islanders and thereby enrich the intellectual, economic, social and cultural life of the state, its residents, and its communities." In 2011, the Board of Governors approved a measure for the Rhode Island public education community, which permitted in-state tuition breaks to illegal immigrants. Incumbent Governor Lincoln Chafee supported the measure, calling it a "policy change" that would "improve the intellectual and culture life of Rhode Island". Rhode Island Board of Governors for Higher Education The Rhode Island Board of Governors for Higher Education (commonly referred
Rhode Island law aims to prevent suicides at public colleges. [SEP] 2015–2017 youth suicides in Hong Kong // Enhancing support from social workers (e.g. ensuring there is at least one social worker and one counsellor in each school); (3) Enhancing School-based Educational Psychology Service (Chinese: 校本教育心理服務); (4) Reform of education system, e.g. abolish Territory-wide System Assessment.<ref name="https://www.hkptu.org/31136">HKPTU. (8th Nov, 2016). 教協會評《防止學生自殺委員會最終報告》不投入資源 不改善人手 不檢討制度 空談防止學童自殺</ref> In 2017, the Civil Alliance for Student Suicide Prevention publicised a survey that indicated public support for capping the number of hours spent studying each day to 7 hours. Lai Pak-yin, the spokesperson from the Civil Alliance for Student Suicide Prevention argues that excessive studying can have a harmful effect on family relationships. Therefore,
Rhode Island law aims to prevent suicides at public colleges. [SEP] The Center to Prevent Youth Violence // aisle to make critical investments in protecting lives." The Suicide-Proofing Initiative was launched in September 2011 in partnership with the Rhode Island Department of Health under a youth suicide prevention grant from SAMHSA. This program is based on research conducted by the Harvard School of Public Health, which illustrates that preventing youth access to lethal means of suicide, such as firearms, reduces the likelihood that a young person will die from suicide. The Suicide-Proofing Initiative includes TV and radio public service announcements, mass awareness materials, and a website, www.suicideproof.org, all of which are aimed at educating parents of adolescents and
Rhode Island law aims to prevent suicides at public colleges. [SEP] 2015–2017 youth suicides in Hong Kong // the 2015–16 school year. The committee is tasked with studying student suicide in Hong Kong and to offer preemptive solutions to the problem ofyouth suicide.<ref name="http://www.legco.gov.hk/yr16-17/english/panels/ed/papers/ed20161114cb4-79-5-e.pdf">Legislative Council Panel on Education. (Nov, 2016). Final Report of the Committee on Prevention of Student Suicides</ref> The committee consists 21 members ranging from teachers, parents, psychiatrists and the president of the student union at the University of Hong Kong.<ref name="http://www.scmp.com/comment/insight-opinion/article/1935954/prevent-student-suicides-all-hong-kong-has-fight-battle-each">SCMP (16th April, 2016). To prevent student suicides, all of Hong Kong has to fight the battle – each and every day</ref> Professor Paul Yip Siu Fai (Chinese: ) is the director of the Centre
Rhode Island law aims to prevent suicides at public colleges. [SEP] Suicide legislation // to members as to the process that would be used after the legislation had been implemented. The Indian penal code 309 deals with punishment for attempted suicide. The Mental Health Care Act 2017 greatly limits the scope for the code to be implemented. The bill states, “Any person who attempts to [die by] suicide shall be presumed, unless proved otherwise, to have severe stress and shall not be tried and punished under the said Code”. State governments are required to provide adequate care and rehabilitation for such individuals as to prevent a recurrence of an attempt to suicide. The act
Rhode Island law aims to prevent suicides at public colleges. [SEP] Suicide of Ryan Halligan // Halligan soon began lobbying for legislation in Vermont to improve how schools address bullying and suicide prevention. He has also given speeches to schools in various states about the story of his son and the devastating effects of cyber-bullying among teens. Vermont enacted a Bullying Prevention Policy Law in May 2004 and later adopted a Suicide Prevention Law (Act 114) in 2005, closely following a draft submitted by Halligan's father. The law provides measures to assist teachers and others to recognize and respond to depression and suicide risks among teens. Halligan's case has also been cited by legislators in other
Rhode Island law aims to prevent suicides at public colleges. [SEP] Capital punishment in Rhode Island // committed while under sentence of life imprisonment, but no one was ever executed under this provision. On June 26, 1973, the Rhode Island General Assembly instituted the penalty of death by gas inhalation for murders committed during confinement in state correctional institutions. But the Rhode Island Supreme Court ruled that the mandatory death sentence provisions of Chapter 280 (RI General Laws 11-23-2) violated the "cruel and unusual punishment" clause of the 8th amendment to the U.S. Constitution. Finally, on May 9, 1984, the General Assembly enacted Public Law Chapter 221, which removed the mandatory death sentence language from RI General
Panel recommends pneumonia vaccine for adult smokers [SEP] Pneumonia // of 2 against "Streptococcus pneumoniae" (pneumococcal conjugate vaccine). Vaccinating children against "Streptococcus pneumoniae" has led to a decreased rate of these infections in adults, because many adults acquire infections from children. A "Streptococcus pneumoniae" vaccine is available for adults, and has been found to decrease the risk of invasive pneumococcal disease, but there is insufficient evidence to suggest using the pneumococcal vaccine to prevent pneumonia or mortality in the general adult population. The CDC recommends that young children and adults over the age of 65 receive the pneumococcal vaccine, as well as older children or younger adults who have an
Panel recommends pneumonia vaccine for adult smokers [SEP] Community-acquired pneumonia // first year of life has reduced their role in childhood CAP. A vaccine against "streptococcus pneumoniae", available for adults, is recommended for healthy individuals over 65 and all adults with COPD, heart failure, diabetes mellitus, cirrhosis, alcoholism, cerebrospinal fluid leaks or who have had a splenectomy. Re-vaccination may be required after five or ten years. Patients who are vaccinated against "streptococcus pneumoniae", health professionals, nursing-home residents and pregnant women should be vaccinated annually against influenza. During an outbreak, drugs such as amantadine, rimantadine, zanamivir and oseltamivir have been demonstrated to prevent influenza. Community-acquired pneumonia Community-acquired pneumonia (CAP) refers to pneumonia
Panel recommends pneumonia vaccine for adult smokers [SEP] Pneumonia // children could be reduced by 400,000; and, if proper treatment were universally available, childhood deaths could be decreased by another 600,000. Vaccination prevents against certain bacterial and viral pneumonias both in children and adults. Influenza vaccines are modestly effective at preventing symptoms of influenza, The Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) recommends yearly influenza vaccination for every person 6 months and older. Immunizing health care workers decreases the risk of viral pneumonia among their patients. Vaccinations against "Haemophilus influenzae" and "Streptococcus pneumoniae" have good evidence to support their use. There is strong evidence for vaccinating children under the age
Panel recommends pneumonia vaccine for adult smokers [SEP] Pneumonia // increased risk of getting pneumococcal disease. The pneumococcal vaccine has been shown to reduce the risk of community acquired pneumonia in people with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), but does not reduce mortality or the risk of hospitalization for people with this condition. People with COPD are suggested to have a pneumococcal vaccination. Other vaccines for which there is support for a protective effect against pneumonia include pertussis, varicella, and measles. When influenza outbreaks occur, medications such as amantadine or rimantadine may help prevent the condition; however are associated with side effects. Zanamivir or oseltamivir decrease the chance that people
Panel recommends pneumonia vaccine for adult smokers [SEP] Vaccination schedule // thus, no routine booster doses are given in adulthood. Those adults at risk of contaminated cuts (e.g., gardeners) may have booster tetanus vaccination every ten years. Pneumococcal vaccinations (pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine/PPV) are recommended for those over 65 and for people without a functional spleen (asplenia), either because the spleen has been removed or does not work properly. Also, it should be noted that current CDC guidelines recommend that if not previously vaccinated, administer PCV13 first and give PPSV23 6–12 months after, but if previously received PPSV23, administer PCV13 ≥12 months after Flu vaccine is recommended for anyone who is aged
Panel recommends pneumonia vaccine for adult smokers [SEP] Pneumonia // treatment, or complications occur, hospitalization may be required. Worldwide, approximately 7–13% of cases in children result in hospitalization, whereas in the developed world between 22 and 42% of adults with community-acquired pneumonia are admitted. The CURB-65 score is useful for determining the need for admission in adults. If the score is 0 or 1, people can typically be managed at home; if it is 2, a short hospital stay or close follow-up is needed; if it is 3–5, hospitalization is recommended. In children those with respiratory distress or oxygen saturations of less than 90% should be hospitalized. The utility of
Panel recommends pneumonia vaccine for adult smokers [SEP] Pneumococcal vaccine // Pneumococcal vaccine Pneumococcal vaccines are vaccines against the bacteria "Streptococcus pneumoniae". Their use can prevent some cases of pneumonia, meningitis, and sepsis. There are two types of pneumococcal vaccines: conjugate vaccines and polysaccharide vaccines. They are given by injection either into a muscle or just under the skin. The World Health Organization recommends the use of the conjugate vaccine in the routine immunizations given to children. This includes those with HIV/AIDS. The recommended three or four doses are between 71 and 93% effective at preventing severe pneumococcal disease. The polysaccharide vaccines, while effective in healthy adults, are not effective in
Panel recommends pneumonia vaccine for adult smokers [SEP] Pneumonia // who are exposed to the virus will develop symptoms; however, it is recommended that potential side effects are taken into account. Smoking cessation and reducing indoor air pollution, such as that from cooking indoors with wood or dung, are both recommended. Smoking appears to be the single biggest risk factor for pneumococcal pneumonia in otherwise-healthy adults. Hand hygiene and coughing into one's sleeve may also be effective preventative measures. Wearing surgical masks by the sick may also prevent illness. Appropriately treating underlying illnesses (such as HIV/AIDS, diabetes mellitus, and malnutrition) can decrease the risk of pneumonia. In children less than
Panel recommends pneumonia vaccine for adult smokers [SEP] Pneumococcal conjugate vaccine // in preventing IPD has been documented by a number of epidemiologic studies. There is evidence that other people in the same household as a vaccinee also become relatively protected. In fact, there is evidence that routine childhood vaccination reduces the burden of pneumococcal disease in adults and especially high-risk adults, such as those living with HIV/AIDS. The vaccine is, however, primarily developed for the U.S. and European epidemiological situation, and therefore it has only a limited coverage of serotypes causing serious pneumococcal infections in most developing countries. After introduction of the pneumococcal conjugate vaccine in 2000, several studies described a
Panel recommends pneumonia vaccine for adult smokers [SEP] Pneumococcal conjugate vaccine // decrease in invasive pneumococcal disease in the United States. One year after its introduction, a group of investigators found a 69% drop in the rate of invasive disease in those of less than two years of age. By 2004, all-cause pneumonia admission rates had declined by 39% (95% CI 22–52) and rates of hospitalizations for pneumococcal meningitis decreased by 66% (95% CI 56.3-73.5) in children younger than 2. Rates of invasive pneumococcal disease among adults have also declined since the introduction of the vaccine. Pneumococcal disease is the leading vaccine-preventable killer of young children worldwide, according to the World Health
Promise of faster, more accessible schizophrenia diagnosis, Rutgers study shows [SEP] Rosenhan experiment // including rundown and underfunded public hospitals in rural areas, urban university-run hospitals with excellent reputations, and one expensive private hospital. Though presented with identical symptoms, seven were diagnosed with schizophrenia at public hospitals, and one with manic-depressive psychosis, a more optimistic diagnosis with better clinical outcomes, at the private hospital. Their stays ranged from 7 to 52 days, and the average was 19 days. All were discharged with a diagnosis of schizophrenia "in remission," which Rosenhan considered as evidence that mental illness is perceived as an irreversible condition creating a lifelong stigma rather than a curable illness. Despite constantly and
Promise of faster, more accessible schizophrenia diagnosis, Rutgers study shows [SEP] Diagnosis of schizophrenia // out brain abnormalities, and their benefit is very limited at that. Structural alterations have, however, been identified in schizophrenia, most commonly enlarged ventricles, and decreased grey matter volume in the cortex and hippocampus. Studies using functional MRI have also shown that altered connectivity and activity in present in schizophrenia. In the last decade interest has grown in the use of machine learning to automatically perform the diagnosis task using brain imaging data. While these algorithms are very robust at distinguishing schizophrenia patients from healthy subjects, they still cannot perform the tasks clinicians struggle the most with - differential diagnosis and
Promise of faster, more accessible schizophrenia diagnosis, Rutgers study shows [SEP] Prognosis of schizophrenia // and statistics places the estimate at 4.9%, most often occurring in the period following onset or first hospital admission. Several times more attempt suicide. There are a variety of reasons and risk factors. After long-term follow-up half of people with schizophrenia have a favourable outcome while 16% have a delayed recovery after an early unremitting course. More usually, the course in the first two years predicted the long-term course. Early social intervention was also related to a better outcome. The findings were held as important in moving patients, careers and clinicians away from the prevalent belief of the chronic nature
Promise of faster, more accessible schizophrenia diagnosis, Rutgers study shows [SEP] Sex differences in schizophrenia // global outcome, and recovery across periods of 15-20 years. Several studies have demonstrated that women with schizophrenia are more likely to exhibit significantly greater reduction in psychotic symptoms, as well as better cognitive and global functioning relative to men. Additionally, studies have found that women are more likely to experience a period of recovery across the lifespan than men. Further, there is consistent evidence of higher mortality rates, suicide attempts and completions, homelessness, poorer family and social support in men compared to women. It is currently unclear the extent to which these observed differences can be attributed to age of
Promise of faster, more accessible schizophrenia diagnosis, Rutgers study shows [SEP] Diagnosis of schizophrenia // more fundamental cognitive impairments that are harder to assess due to large variations in presentation. This view is supported by other psychiatrists. In the same vein, Ming Tsuang and colleagues argue that psychotic symptoms may be a common end-state in a variety of disorders, including schizophrenia, rather than a reflection of the specific etiology of schizophrenia, and warn that there is little basis for regarding DSM’s operational definition as the "true" construct of schizophrenia. Neuropsychologist Michael Foster Green went further in suggesting the presence of specific neurocognitive deficits may be used to construct phenotypes that are alternatives to those that
Promise of faster, more accessible schizophrenia diagnosis, Rutgers study shows [SEP] Prognosis of schizophrenia // wider community. Numerous international studies have demonstrated favorable long-term outcomes for around half of those diagnosed with schizophrenia, with substantial variation between individuals and regions. One retrospective study found that about a third of people made a full recovery, about a third showed improvement but not a full recovery, and a third remained ill. A clinical study using strict recovery criteria (concurrent remission of positive and negative symptoms and adequate social and vocational functioning continuously for two years) found a recovery rate of 14% within the first five years. A 5-year community study found that 62% showed overall improvement on
Promise of faster, more accessible schizophrenia diagnosis, Rutgers study shows [SEP] Linda M. Brzustowicz // of moderately large extended families from eastern Canada, and have identified "a major schizophrenia susceptibility locus on chromosome 1q21-22 with a multipoint lod score of 6.50 (p<0.0002)." Using the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS), they have also detected a significant linkage of the severity of positive symptoms of schizophrenia to chromosome 6. Linda M. Brzustowicz Linda M. Brzustowicz (born November 13, 1960) is a professor of genetics at Rutgers University and a member of the Motif BioSciences Scientific Advisory Board, whose main purpose is to develop technology that will benefit all laboratories using "biosamples," or samples of blood, DNA,
Promise of faster, more accessible schizophrenia diagnosis, Rutgers study shows [SEP] Schizophrenia // 1971 US–UK Diagnostic Study that schizophrenia was diagnosed to a far greater extent in America than in Europe. This was partly due to looser diagnostic criteria in the US, which used the DSM-II manual, contrasting with Europe and its ICD-9. David Rosenhan's 1972 study, published in the journal "Science" under the title "On being sane in insane places", concluded that the diagnosis of schizophrenia in the US was often subjective and unreliable. These were some of the factors leading to the revision not only of the diagnosis of schizophrenia, but the revision of the whole DSM manual, resulting in the
Promise of faster, more accessible schizophrenia diagnosis, Rutgers study shows [SEP] Prognosis of schizophrenia // questions about the effectiveness of such drug-based treatments. On its face, psychiatric medication itself may be causing the worse Western-society outcomes. Large-scale, randomized, blinded studies of alternatives are warranted. In many non-Western societies, schizophrenia may only be treated with more informal, community-led methods. Multiple international surveys by the World Health Organization over several decades have indicated that the outcome for people diagnosed with schizophrenia in non-Western countries is on average better there than for people in the West. Many clinicians and researchers hypothesize that this difference is due to relative levels of social connectedness and acceptance, although further cross-cultural studies
Promise of faster, more accessible schizophrenia diagnosis, Rutgers study shows [SEP] Diagnosis of schizophrenia // Studies also suggest there is a genetic overlap between schizophrenia and other psychiatric disorders, such as autism spectrum disorders, attention deficit-hyperactivity disorder, bipolar disorder, and major depressive disorder. These factors complicate the use of genetic tests in diagnosis or prediction of the onset of schizophrenia. If signs of disturbance are present for more than a month but less than six months, the diagnosis of schizophreniform disorder is applied. Psychotic symptoms lasting less than a month may be diagnosed as brief psychotic disorder, and various conditions may be classed as psychotic disorder not otherwise specified. Schizoaffective disorder is diagnosed if symptoms
In Iran in 1979, the extremists hijacked the broad-based popular revolution against the Shah and established a brutal theocracy. [SEP] Abdullah Yusuf Azzam // 16 January 1979 the Iranian Revolution succeed in taking over the country and exiling the Shah, Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, which then brought about the world's first modern Muslim theocracy under the rule of Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini. The second major attempt at Islamic revolution that year was the 20 November 1979 Grand Mosque Seizure at Mecca, in western Saudi Arabia, the holiest site in Islam. The two-week siege and bloody ending shocked the Muslim world, as hundreds were killed in the ensuing battles and executions. The event was explained as a fundamentalist dissident revolt against the Saudi regime. The Saudi regime
In Iran in 1979, the extremists hijacked the broad-based popular revolution against the Shah and established a brutal theocracy. [SEP] 1970s // Cambodia in 1975–78. In 1979, a new wrinkle appeared in the form of Islamic fundamentalism, as the Shia theocracy of Ayatollah Khomeini overthrew the Shah of Iran and declared itself hostile to both Western democracy and godless communism. People were deeply influenced by the rapid pace of societal change and the aspiration for a more egalitarian society in cultures that were long colonized and have an even longer history of hierarchical social structure. The Green Revolution of the late 1960s brought about self-sufficiency in food in many developing economies. At the same time an increasing number of people began to
In Iran in 1979, the extremists hijacked the broad-based popular revolution against the Shah and established a brutal theocracy. [SEP] Iranian Revolution // Islamic republic on 1 April 1979 and to formulate and approve a new theocratic-republican constitution whereby Khomeini became Supreme Leader of the country in December 1979. The revolution was unusual for the surprise it created throughout the world: it lacked many of the customary causes of revolution (defeat at war, a financial crisis, peasant rebellion, or disgruntled military), occurred in a nation that was experiencing relative prosperity, produced profound change at great speed, was massively popular, resulted in the exile of many Iranians, and replaced a pro-Western authoritarian monarchy with an anti-Western authoritarian theocracy based on the concept of Guardianship
In Iran in 1979, the extremists hijacked the broad-based popular revolution against the Shah and established a brutal theocracy. [SEP] Consolidation of the Iranian Revolution // ("the Western plague"), and as "monafeqin "(hypocrites) and "kafer" (unbelievers). In February 1980 concentrated attacks by "hezbollahi" toughs began on the meeting places, bookstores, newsstands of Mujahideen and other leftists driving the left underground in Iran. The next month saw the beginning of the "Iranian Cultural Revolution". Universities, a leftist bastion, were closed for two years to purge them of opponents to theocratic rule. A purge of the state bureaucracy began in July. 20,000 teachers and nearly 8,000 military officers deemed too "Westernized" were dismissed. Khomeini sometimes felt the need to use "takfir" (declaring someone guilty of apostasy, a capital
In Iran in 1979, the extremists hijacked the broad-based popular revolution against the Shah and established a brutal theocracy. [SEP] Iranian Revolution // adhere to the Iranian Constitution of 1906 rather than to replace him with a theocracy, but lacked the cohesion and organization of Khomeini's forces. Marxist groups – primarily the communist Tudeh Party of Iran and the Fedaian guerrillas – had been weakened considerably by government repression. Despite this the guerrillas did help play an important part in the final February 1979 overthrow delivering "the regime its coup de grace." The most powerful guerrilla group – the People's Mujahedin – was leftist Islamist and opposed the influence of the clergy as reactionary. Some important clergy did not follow Khomeini's lead. Popular
In Iran in 1979, the extremists hijacked the broad-based popular revolution against the Shah and established a brutal theocracy. [SEP] Iranian Revolution // and federalist parties revolted in some regions comprising Khuzistan, Kurdistan and Gonbad-e Qabus, which resulted in fighting between them and revolutionary forces. These revolts began in April 1979 and lasted between several months to over a year, depending on the region. On 30 and 31 March (Farvardin 10, 11) a referendum was held over whether to replace the monarchy with an "Islamic republic". Khomeini called for a massive turnout and only the National Democratic Front, Fadayan, and several Kurdish parties opposed the vote. The results show that 98.2% had voted in favor of the Islamic Republic. In June 1979 the
In Iran in 1979, the extremists hijacked the broad-based popular revolution against the Shah and established a brutal theocracy. [SEP] History of the Islamic Republic of Iran // theocratic Constitution — whereby Khomeini became Supreme Leader of the country — was approved in December 1979. In between, the Shah fled Iran in January 1979 after strikes and demonstrations paralyzed the country, and on February 1, 1979, Ayatollah Khomeini returned to Tehran to a greeting by several million Iranians. The final collapse of the Pahlavi dynasty occurred shortly after on February 11 when Iran's military declared itself "neutral" after guerrillas and rebel troops overwhelmed troops loyal to the Shah in armed street fighting. Iran officially became the Islamic Republic on April 1, 1979, when Iranians overwhelmingly approved a national
In Iran in 1979, the extremists hijacked the broad-based popular revolution against the Shah and established a brutal theocracy. [SEP] History of Islam // constitutional monarchy to a populist theocratic Islamic republic under the rule of Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, a Shi'i Muslim cleric and "marja". Following the Revolution, and a new constitution was approved and a referendum established the government, electing Ruhollah Khomeini as Supreme Leader. During the following two years, liberals, leftists, and Islamic groups fought each other, and the Islamics captured power. The development of the two opposite fringes, the Safavid conversion of Iran to Shia Islam the Twelver Shia version and its reinforcement by the Iranian Revolution and the Salafi in Saudi Arabia, coupled with the Iran–Saudi Arabia relations resulted in
In Iran in 1979, the extremists hijacked the broad-based popular revolution against the Shah and established a brutal theocracy. [SEP] Iranian Revolution // the post-Shah era, some revolutionaries who clashed with his theocracy and were suppressed by his movement complained of deception, but in the meantime anti-Shah unity was maintained. Several events in the 1970s set the stage for the 1979 revolution. The 1971 2,500th anniversary of the founding of the Persian Empire at Persepolis, organized by the government, was attacked for its extravagance. "As the foreigners reveled on drink forbidden by Islam, Iranians were not only excluded from the festivities, some were starving." Five years later the Shah angered pious Iranian Muslims by changing the first year of the Iranian solar calendar
In Iran in 1979, the extremists hijacked the broad-based popular revolution against the Shah and established a brutal theocracy. [SEP] Iran // unemployment, especially among millions of youth who had migrated to the cities of Iran looking for construction jobs during the boom years of the early 1970s. By the late 1970s, many of these people opposed the Shah's regime and began to organize and join the protests against it. The 1979 Revolution, later known as the "Islamic Revolution", began in January 1978 with the first major demonstrations against the Shah. After a year of strikes and demonstrations paralyzing the country and its economy, Mohammad Reza Pahlavi fled the country and Ruhollah Khomeini returned from exile to Tehran in February 1979, forming
Folic acid tied to better grades in Swedish teens [SEP] Food fortification // is prevented. In humans, increased folic acid intake leads to elevated blood concentrations of naturally occurring folates and of unmetabolized folic acid. High blood concentrations of folic acid may decrease natural killer cell cytotoxicity, and high folate status may reduce the response to drugs used to treat malaria, rheumatoid arthritis, psoriasis, and cancer. A combination of high folate levels and low vitamin B-12 status may be associated with an increased risk of cognitive impairment and anemia in the elderly and, in pregnant women, with an increased risk of insulin resistance and obesity in their children. Folate has a dual effect
Folic acid tied to better grades in Swedish teens [SEP] Education in Sweden // scale has been introduced into the Swedish school system: A, B, C, D, and E as passing grades and F as failing. B and D work as filling grades, for when a student hasn't reached all objectives for C or A but has reached most of them. If the student can't be graded, e.g. extensive truancy, the student will receive a dash instead of an F. If a student is on the verge of receiving an F in a certain subject/course, the teacher responsible for that subject will notify the student and the student's parents. If a student is given
Folic acid tied to better grades in Swedish teens [SEP] Food fortification // red blood cells, proper growth and division of cells, and preventing neural tube defects (NTDs). In many industrialized countries, the addition of folic acid to flour has prevented a significant number of NTDs in infants. Two common types of NTDs, spina bifida and anencephaly, affect approximately 2500-3000 infants born in the US annually. Research trials have shown the ability to reduce the incidence of NTDs by supplementing pregnant mothers with folic acid by 72%. The RDA for folic acid ranges from as low as 150 μg/day for children aged 1–3 years old, to 400 μg/day for males and females over
Folic acid tied to better grades in Swedish teens [SEP] Folate // pregnancies and those over the age of 25. Canadian public health efforts focused on promoting awareness of the importance of folic acid supplementation for all women of childbearing age and decreasing socio-economic inequalities by providing practical folic acid support to vulnerable groups of women. Folic acid food fortification became mandatory in 1998, with the fortification of 150 µg of folic acid per 100 grams of enriched flour and uncooked cereal grains. The results of folic acid fortification on the rate of neural tube defects in Canada have been positive, showing a 46% reduction in prevalence of NTDs; the magnitude of
Folic acid tied to better grades in Swedish teens [SEP] Prenatal vitamins // Vitamins and minerals such as folic acid, calcium, and iron are in higher concentrations, while nutrients such as vitamin A are reduced to reflect the current understanding of the role that these compounds play in fetal development. The increased dosage of folic acid or folates reflects the American Dietetic Associations position that women should consume “400 μg per day of synthetic folic acid from fortified foods (cereals and other grains), supplements or both, in addition to consuming folate from foods in a varied diet.” Taking the appropriate amount of folic acid before conception can reduce or prevent the incidence of
Folic acid tied to better grades in Swedish teens [SEP] Folate // consistent with the reduction in pulse pressure produced by folate supplementation of 5 mg per day, since hypertension is a key risk factor for stroke. Folic supplements are inexpensive and relatively safe to use, which is why people who have had strokes or who have hyperhomocysteinemia are encouraged to consume daily B vitamins including folic acid. Studies on folic acid intake from food and folate supplementation with regards to cancer risk are based on the adequacy of chronic intake. Chronically insufficient intake of folic acid may increase the risk of colorectal, breast, ovarian, pancreas, brain, lung, cervica, and prostate cancers.
Folic acid tied to better grades in Swedish teens [SEP] Folate // 2009, citing as reasons to oppose claims for links between over consumption of folate with increased risk of cancer. In 2012 the delayed mandatory fortification program was revoked and replaced by a voluntary program, with the hope of achieving a 50% bread fortification target. According to a Canadian survey, 58% of women said they took a folic acid containing multivitamin or a folic acid supplement as early as three months before becoming pregnant. Women in higher income households and with more years of school education were more likely to use folic acid supplements before pregnancy, as were women with planned
Folic acid tied to better grades in Swedish teens [SEP] Folate // body through urine. One potential issue associated with high doses of folic acid is that it has a masking effect on the diagnosis of pernicious anaemia due to vitamin B deficiency. An additional concern raised was that low vitamin B status in combination with high folic acid intake appeared to increase the risk of cognitive impairment. The IOM sets ULs for vitamins and minerals when evidence is sufficient. The adult UL of 1000 μg for folate (and lower for children) refers to folic acid used as a supplement, as no health risks have been associated with high intake of folate
Folic acid tied to better grades in Swedish teens [SEP] Folate // country. These data indicate that since the addition of folic acid in grain-based foods as mandated by the FDA, the rate of neural tube defects dropped by 25% in the United States. Before folic acid fortification, about 4,100 pregnancies were affected by a neural tube defect each year in the United States. After fortification, this number declined to around 3,000. When the U.S. Food and Drug Administration set the folic acid fortification regulation in 1996, the projected increase in folic acid intake was 100 µg/d. Mandatory fortification began 1 January 1998. The U.S. National Center for Health Statistics conducts biannual
Folic acid tied to better grades in Swedish teens [SEP] Folate // outcomes of children from birth to 9 years old. There was no correlation between maternal folic acid supplementation and an increased risk for childhood asthma. Folate is necessary for fertility in both men and women. It contributes to spermatogenesis. Therefore, receiving sufficient amounts through the diet is necessary to avoid low fertility. Also, polymorphisms in genes of enzymes involved in folate metabolism could be one reason for fertility complications in some women with unexplained infertility. Taking folic acid over years reduced the risk of cardiovascular disease by 4%, where another study found it did not affect cardiovascular disease, even while
“Four kids who took the coronavirus vaccine died immediately.” [SEP] Dengue vaccine // least 96 children have died , allegedly after receiving a vaccination. The victims' parents blamed the dengue vaccine for the deaths of their children. Most of the deaths are caused by internal bleedings in heart, lungs, and brain based on the autopsy conducted by PAO. Duque angrily confronted the summoned hospital officials after he learned that four hospitals in Cavite allegedly refused to admit the Dengvaxia vaccinees because "there is no room for the patient". Netizens, as well as Senator Ejercito, expressed frustration on February 5, blaming the PAO for panic in dengue vaccination. Attorney Persida Acosta of the PAO
“Four kids who took the coronavirus vaccine died immediately.” [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // of unknown origin. Of the six, two died. All the cases were reported to the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC). After the September identification of a novel CoV strain, a retroactive analysis of the hospital workers was performed. Epidemiologists discovered the Jordan cases. Using stored laboratory samples for all six, it was found that samples from the two patients who had died tested positive for nCoV. On 24 April 2014, a 25-year-old male was found positive for the coronavirus. He had history of exposure to camels and had consumed camel milk. The Ministry of Health and Medical
“Four kids who took the coronavirus vaccine died immediately.” [SEP] Australian Vaccination-risks Network // member and University of Wollongong researcher Judy Wilyman was published on AVN's website accusing the State Government of using the imagery of four-week-old Dana's death to push the vaccine stating it was the "Government and the media who have been using the McCafferys to promote a vaccine". She also questioned whether the McCafferys had been paid to promote the whooping cough vaccine. The McCaffery family vigorously denied these claims. In March 2016 Wilyman continued to repeat that such child deaths are "anecdotal" and provoke the parents of the deceased children saying they are "promoting the death of their child to
“Four kids who took the coronavirus vaccine died immediately.” [SEP] Dengvaxia controversy // Ralph Recto, Manny Pacquiao, Sherwin Gatchalian, Tito Sotto, Gregorio Honasan, Juan Miguel Zubiri, JV Ejercito, Nancy Binay, and Grace Poe have signed. On April 20, Senator Sonny Angara also signed. Since the announcement by Sanofi, at least 65 children have died , allegedly after receiving a vaccination. Most of the victims' parents blamed the dengue vaccine for the deaths of their children; some of them have no prior knowledge of their children being injected. One victim's parent considered to file charges against the doctors who allegedly mishandle the autopsy to the victim's body for "medical malpractice" and caused Persida-Acosta to
“Four kids who took the coronavirus vaccine died immediately.” [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // have been at least 3800 quarantined. On 16 April 2014, Malaysia reported its first MERS-COV related death. The person was a 54-year-old man who had traveled to Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, together with pilgrimage group composed of 18 people, from 15–28 March 2014. He became ill by 4 April, and sought remedy at a clinic in Johor on 7 April. He was hospitalized by 9 April and died on 13 April. On May 11, 2014, two persons on Medan were suspected infected by MERS-Cov (Middle Eastern Respiratory Syndrome-Corona Virus). On 31 October 2013, the World Health Organization (WHO) confirmed that one
“Four kids who took the coronavirus vaccine died immediately.” [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // government, in November 2013, reported a woman in Spain, who had recently traveled to Saudi Arabia for the Islamic pilgrimage, contracted the disease. On 14 April 2014, one Filipino paramedic died in the United Arab Emirates, with six other reported to be infected with the virus. On 17 April, the UAE Ministry of Health reported another fatality and four additional cases, including the Filipino medical worker who travelled to the Philippines on 16 April. On 21 April 2014, the Health Ministry of UAE reported an additional 9 cases. In April 2012, six hospital workers were diagnosed with acute respiratory failure
“Four kids who took the coronavirus vaccine died immediately.” [SEP] Coronavirus // of a vaccine against the disease "since [the spike protein] appears to be recognized by the immune system of the host." Following the high-profile publicity of SARS outbreaks, there has been a renewed interest in coronaviruses among virologists. For many years, scientists knew about only two human coronaviruses (HCoV-229E and HCoV-OC43). The discovery of SARS-CoV added a third human coronavirus. By the end of 2004, three independent research labs reported the discovery of a fourth human coronavirus. It has been named NL63, NL, and the New Haven coronavirus by different research groups. The three labs are still arguing over which
“Four kids who took the coronavirus vaccine died immediately.” [SEP] Dengue vaccine // after they have had a meeting with the US Food and Drug Administration. On April 5, Public Attorney’s Office filed the criminal charges (reckless imprudence resulting in homicide under Article 365 of the Revised Penal Code and violation of Republic Act No. 9745 (Anti-Torture Act) and torture) against the Former Health Secretary Janette Garin and other former officials. However, Garin said that the charges have no basis and vowed to file a counter-charge against PAO. The families of four children — Aejay Bautista (11), Lenard Baldonado (10), Zandro Colite (11), and Angelica Pestilos (10), whose deaths had been linked to
“Four kids who took the coronavirus vaccine died immediately.” [SEP] Julio Isidro Maiztegui // patients in saline solution to those whose exposure had taken place under eight days earlier. The treatment, which reduced motality rates from 30% to around 1% of those infected, led to greater support for the work at CEMIC, and in 1978, the National Institute of Hemorrhagic Viruses (INVH) was established in Pergamino with Dr. Maiztegui as its director. A former colleague of Maiztegui's, Dr. Julio Barrera Oro, developed the "Candid#1" vaccine at the U.S. Army Research Laboratory, in 1985, and the vaccine became available locally in 1990. Dr. Maiztegui remained at the helm of the INVH until his death from
“Four kids who took the coronavirus vaccine died immediately.” [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // deaths." On 31 October 2013, the WHO announced that three patients in Saudi Arabia died of MERS. The patients were one woman and two men and "all had underlying medical conditions but all reported having had no contact with animals before falling ill". Early of 23 April 2014, 11 new cases including a first case for Mecca were reported by the Health Ministry. An additional 13 cases were reported on the same day. With the additional reported cases, there are now a total of 285 cases with 83 deaths in the Kingdom. A hospital-related outbreak in Riyadh brought the total
In the House Republican health care bill, "we’re expanding women’s access to health services by redirecting Planned Parenthood dollars to community health centers, which vastly outnumber Planned Parenthood clinics. [SEP] War on Women // she called "vicious and inappropriate". Several Democrats used the phrase "War on Women" to criticize the Republican Party after House Republicans passed legislation to cut off funding for Planned Parenthood in February 2011. Texas, Indiana and Kansas have passed legislation in an effort to defund the organization. Arizona, Ohio and New Hampshire are considering similar legislation. In Texas, lawmakers reduced funds for family planning from $111M to $37M. The future of the Women's Health Program in Texas, which receives 90% of its funding from the federal government, is unclear. The Indiana legislature passed a bill restricting Medicaid funds for Planned
In the House Republican health care bill, "we’re expanding women’s access to health services by redirecting Planned Parenthood dollars to community health centers, which vastly outnumber Planned Parenthood clinics. [SEP] Steve Arndt // every Republican in the chamber. In response to the vote, Minority Leader Fred Strahorn said, "Planned Parenthood provides low-cost preventative care to tens of thousands of women in Ohio. Defunding these effective and cost-efficient programs will put women and families in our underserved communities at risk." Arndt voted in favor of "legislation to ban local hiring standards and restrict project labor agreements (PLAs) for public works projects." Debate around the issue at the time focused on the likelihood that the legislation would push jobs out of Ohio. "The Ohio Contractors Association and other backers of a ban say such quotas
In the House Republican health care bill, "we’re expanding women’s access to health services by redirecting Planned Parenthood dollars to community health centers, which vastly outnumber Planned Parenthood clinics. [SEP] Charlie Baker // which went into effect on July 1, 2018. In January 2017, Baker voiced support for the Women's Marches being held across the United States. In March 2017, after congressional Republicans in the 115th U.S. Congress proposed a defunding provision to the American Health Care Act of 2017 that would make Planned Parenthood clinics in Massachusetts ineligible for nearly $2 million in Medicaid medical service reimbursements and federal family planning grants under Title X, Baker's administration promised to offset the funding gap. In July 2017, Baker signed into law a bill requiring employers to provide "reasonable accommodations" for female employees who
In the House Republican health care bill, "we’re expanding women’s access to health services by redirecting Planned Parenthood dollars to community health centers, which vastly outnumber Planned Parenthood clinics. [SEP] Maternal healthcare in Texas // to 8.4% in the counties with Planned Parenthood affiliates. In addition to the Women's Health Program, from September 2010 to August 2011, the Texas Department of State Health Services allocated $49.3 million in funding to private, public, and Planned Parenthood affiliated clinics through Title X, V, and XX funding to provide family planning services. In September 2011, preceding the exclusion of programs from WHP, the state of Texas reduced its family planning funding from $111.0 million to $37.9 million through the removal of Title V and Title XX block grants. The funds were re-allocated away from family planning providers to
In the House Republican health care bill, "we’re expanding women’s access to health services by redirecting Planned Parenthood dollars to community health centers, which vastly outnumber Planned Parenthood clinics. [SEP] Joni Ernst // leveraging the different abilities of "our guard and reserve forces"; Mattis committed to each. Later that month, Ernst announced her intent to introduce legislation that would redirect funding for Planned Parenthood to other women's health care providers and that she already had a bill meant to overturn a policy of the Obama administration securing grants from Planned Parenthood to Title X family planning, furthering this would be accomplishable with a "pro-life president in the White House and pro-life majorities in the House and Senate". President Trump signed the latter bill into law on April 13, 2017. In early February, Ernst
In the House Republican health care bill, "we’re expanding women’s access to health services by redirecting Planned Parenthood dollars to community health centers, which vastly outnumber Planned Parenthood clinics. [SEP] Reproductive justice // to protective reproductive health services. Such services include pap tests, STI screening and counseling, prenatal care, and the human papillomavirus vaccine. A press release by the reproductive justice organization SPARK states, "women will receive better coverage and more choices in their health care" due to this expansion of care. Advocates for reproductive justice such as SisterSong and Planned Parenthood believe that all women should be able to obtain a safe and affordable abortion if they desire one. Having safe, local, and affordable access to abortion services is a crucial part of ensuring high quality healthcare for women. Access to abortion
In the House Republican health care bill, "we’re expanding women’s access to health services by redirecting Planned Parenthood dollars to community health centers, which vastly outnumber Planned Parenthood clinics. [SEP] Barbara Boxer // reproductive rights and the pro-choice movement. Boxer authored the Freedom of Choice Act of 2004 and participated in the floor fight for passage of the Freedom of Access to Clinic Entrances Act. Boxer is an original cosponsor of the Title X Family Planning Services Act of 2005, S.844, by Senator Hillary Clinton (D-NY). This legislation aims to improve access to women's health care. It authorizes funding for family planning services grants; allows states to provide such services to individuals who may not be eligible for Medicaid; prohibits health insurance providers from excluding contraceptive services, drugs or devices from benefits; establishes
In the House Republican health care bill, "we’re expanding women’s access to health services by redirecting Planned Parenthood dollars to community health centers, which vastly outnumber Planned Parenthood clinics. [SEP] Title X // Parenthood from Title X frees up more nonfederal money that can be used to perform abortions. Then Representative, now Vice President Mike Pence, a Republican from Indiana, has led the charge to prevent Planned Parenthood from receiving Title X funds. House Republicans called for cuts of over $300 million from Title X for FY2011 in order to reduce the number of abortions. In 2006, publicly funded family planning services (Medicaid, Title X, and state funds) helped women avoid 1.94 million unintended pregnancies, thus preventing about 860,000 unintended births and 810,000 abortions. Without publicly funded family planning services, the number of
In the House Republican health care bill, "we’re expanding women’s access to health services by redirecting Planned Parenthood dollars to community health centers, which vastly outnumber Planned Parenthood clinics. [SEP] Carolyn Maloney // created a bit of a firestorm. She asked the question of an all-male panel at a hearing of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform. The panel had been called by the Republican members of the Committee to testify on the issue of birth control and new health care reform regulations. In her opening statement, Maloney said: "Where are the women? When I look at this panel, I don't see one single woman representing the tens of millions of women across the country who want and need insurance coverage for basic, preventative health care services, including family planning," Maloney
In the House Republican health care bill, "we’re expanding women’s access to health services by redirecting Planned Parenthood dollars to community health centers, which vastly outnumber Planned Parenthood clinics. [SEP] Feminist Abortion Network // restrict abortion access at an unprecedented rate. In 2011 alone, legislators across the country introduced over 1,100 reproductive rights-related provisions. One hundred and thirty five of these provisions passed in 36 states, exceeding the 89 provisions passed in the previous year and the 77 passed in 2009. The FAN member clinics remain committed to staying open, despite the challenges, because they believe that they offer an important alternative to "standard" healthcare. Kudra MacCalleich of the Concord Feminist Health Center framed the need for feminist health centers in terms of biodiversity: "Why is biodiversity so crucial? Because we know there are
Older emphysema drug linked to heart deaths. [SEP] Rosiglitazone // stroke, heart failure, or all-cause mortality in patients 65 years or older". The number needed to harm with roziglitazone was sixty. Graham argued rosiglitazone caused 500 more heart attacks and 300 more heart failures than its main competitor. Two meta analyses released in 2010, one incorporating 56 trials and a second incorporating 164 trials reached conflicting conclusions. Nissen et al. found again an increased risk for heart infarction against control, but no increased risk for cardiovascular death. Mannucci et al. found no statistically significant increase in cardiac events but a significant increase in heart failure. A 2011 drug class review
Older emphysema drug linked to heart deaths. [SEP] Hypopituitarism // The largest study to date followed over a thousand people for eight years; it showed an 87% increased risk of death compared to the normal population. Predictors of higher risk were: female sex, absence of treatment for sex hormone deficiency, younger age at the time of diagnosis, and a diagnosis of craniopharyngioma. Apart from cardiovascular disease, this study also showed an increased risk of death from lung disease. Quality of life may be significantly reduced, even in those people on optimum medical therapy. Many report both physical and psychological problems. It is likely that the commonly used replacement therapies do
Older emphysema drug linked to heart deaths. [SEP] Stuart W. Jamieson // City, in a 43-year-old man with emphysema. He lived for eight days. In 1971, South African Christiaan Barnard, also performed a combined heart-lung transplant in a 49-year-old man with emphysema, surviving for 23 days. The poor survival rates of these early transplantations, primarily resulted from inadequate immunosuppression and difficulties with joining the airways. In addition, Joel D. Cooper had found corticosteroids to weaken the bronchial anastomosis. It was on this background of tragic deaths that Jamieson later acknowledged and shared his research on xenograft hyperacute rejection. Following 1971's "Life Magazine's" media coverage of failed early heart transplantations, Jamieson published his
Older emphysema drug linked to heart deaths. [SEP] Heart failure // with the exception of mineralocorticoid antagonists such as spironolactone. Mineralocorticoid antagonists in those under 75 years old appear to decrease the risk of death. A recent Cochrane review found that in small studies, the use of diuretics appeared to have improved mortality in individuals with heart failure. However, the extent to which these results can be extrapolated to a general population is unclear due to the small number of participants in the cited studies. Anemia is an independent factor in mortality in people with chronic heart failure. The treatment of anemia significantly improves quality of life for those with heart
Older emphysema drug linked to heart deaths. [SEP] Seven Countries Study // with increased risk of dementia death later in life. It indicated that cigarette smoking is a highly significant predictor of the development of coronary heart disease, leading to excess rates of angina pectoris, myocardial infarction (MI), and coronary death, along with other studies about smoking, e.g. the Framingham Heart Study and the British Doctors Study. Scientists differed on the best predictors of heart disease. In 1950 in "Science", John Gofman described separating lipoproteins into different densities in the ultracentrifuge. In 1952 as part of a panel with Keys, Gofman agreed that reducing fat in the diet might help some heart
Older emphysema drug linked to heart deaths. [SEP] Vectorcardiography // blood pressure values and a discrimination between patients with high and low blood pressure could not be detected using other ECG parameters. In the Rotterdam Study with men and women aged 55 years and older, having an abnormal SA significantly increased the hazard ratios for cardiac death, sudden cardiac death, non-fatal cardiac events (infarction, coronary interventions) and total mortality. Independently, the SA was a stronger risk indicator of cardiac mortality compared to the other cardiovascular and ECG risk factors analyzed. The Women’s Health Initiative study concluded that a wide SA was the strongest predictor for incident coronary heart failure risk
Older emphysema drug linked to heart deaths. [SEP] AH-7921 // fatality was a 19-year-old male who had a 3.9 mg/L AH-7921 concentration of heart blood leading medical examiners to confirm the death was an opioid intoxication. In another case, a 22-year-old woman was found dead with a femoral blood to AH-7921 concentration of 450μg/L. A 2018 review of published case reports found a total of 14 cases, of which 13 resulted in death. The oral route of administration was reported in two cases, and most cases reported use of concomitant pharmaceutical agents. Postmortem autopsies found that pulmonary edema was the most common finding, with nine of the cases having heavier
Older emphysema drug linked to heart deaths. [SEP] Combined drug intoxication // suppress breathing, and the low blood oxygen level causes brain death. The CDI/MDI phenomenon seems to be becoming more common in recent years. In December 2007, according to Dr. John Mendelson, a pharmacologist at the California Pacific Medical Center Research Institute, deaths by combined drug intoxication were relatively "rare" ("one in several million"), though they appeared then to be "on the rise". In July 2008, the Associated Press and CNN reported on a medical study showing that over two decades, from 1983 to 2004, such deaths have soared. It has also become a prevalent risk for older patients. People who
Older emphysema drug linked to heart deaths. [SEP] Women and smoking // high-density lipoproteins that prevent arteries from blockage. For many women the effects of smoking on the heart's health truly become obvious later on in life. Among current female smokers, “the chance of dying from heart disease or lung cancer exceeds the chance of dying from breast cancer from 40 on (and does so by at least a factor of 5 after age 55).” The habit becomes particularly crucial when women are also taking birth control because these two in concert increases, even more so, women's chances of having a stroke or a heart attack. When observing older women, research has
Older emphysema drug linked to heart deaths. [SEP] Erythromycin // Earlier case reports on sudden death prompted a study on a large cohort that confirmed a link between erythromycin, ventricular tachycardia, and sudden cardiac death in patients also taking drugs that prolong the metabolism of erythromycin (like verapamil or diltiazem) by interfering with CYP3A4. Hence, erythromycin should not be administered to people using these drugs, or drugs that also prolong the QT interval. Other examples include terfenadine (Seldane, Seldane-D), astemizole (Hismanal), cisapride (Propulsid, withdrawn in many countries for prolonging the QT time) and pimozide (Orap). Theophylline, which is used mostly in asthma, is also contraindicated. Erythromycin and doxycycline can have
Statistics demonstrate that crime rates in Australia have increased substantially since the government there instituted a gun buy-back program in 1997. [SEP] Gun control // determine whether the change in firearm deaths can be attributed to the gun law reforms." Many gun control advocates cite Australia as a case of successful gun control, but opposers of this legislation argue differently. According to studies, Australia's violent crime and gun crime had been falling since the early 90s. After the gun buyback, the crime dropped at exactly the same rate, prompting questioning if it was the buyback that caused the drop in crime, or if it would have continued without confiscating 26,000 firearms. A 2007 study found evidence that gun control laws passed in Austria in 1997
Statistics demonstrate that crime rates in Australia have increased substantially since the government there instituted a gun buy-back program in 1997. [SEP] National Firearms Agreement // A study found that there were no mass shooting deaths of five or more in Australia from 1997 through 2006, though the authors note that it is impossible to prove the agreement was the cause. The Agreement includes a number of provisions. It was agreed to establish a temporary firearm buyback program for firearms that were once legal now made illegal, that according to the Council on Foreign Relations bought over 650,000 firearms. This program, which cost $230 million, was paid for by an increase in the country's taxes. The law created a national firearm registry, a 28-day waiting period
Statistics demonstrate that crime rates in Australia have increased substantially since the government there instituted a gun buy-back program in 1997. [SEP] Gun laws in Australia // eventually failed in the Supreme Court of South Australia. The Australian Constitution requires just compensation be given for property taken over, so the federal government introduced the "Medicare Levy Amendment Act 1996" to raise the predicted cost of A$500 million through a one-off increase in the Medicare levy. The gun buy-back scheme started on 1 October 1996 and concluded on 30 September 1997. The government bought back and destroyed over 1 million firearms. In October 2002, a commerce student killed two fellow students at Monash University in Victoria with pistols he had acquired as a member of a shooting club.
Statistics demonstrate that crime rates in Australia have increased substantially since the government there instituted a gun buy-back program in 1997. [SEP] Crime in Australia // laws and Australia's gun control laws have been held up as an example of a workable solution for the safer management of guns and gun licensing by citizens of the United States, and some of the members of Congress - "Crime statistics before and after the implementation of gun laws provide a quantifiable measure of their impact. As a consequence, Australia's gun laws and their impact have become part of the American gun debate. " The gun buy-back program which was implemented in 1996, purchased and destroyed mostly semi-automatic and pump action firearms. Crime in Australia Crime in Australia is
Statistics demonstrate that crime rates in Australia have increased substantially since the government there instituted a gun buy-back program in 1997. [SEP] Gun buyback program // to this restricted use on the grounds that these highly specialised target pistols are large, visually distinctive and not readily concealable due to their overall size. In 2017, Australia had a national firearms amnesty, the first since 1996, in which individuals could surrender illegal firearms for destruction. In two gun buyback programs between 2003 and 2009, the Brazilian government collected and destroyed over 1.1 million guns. In 2004, the Brazilian government implemented a six-month national gun buyback program that met its stated objective of collecting 80,000 guns in less than three months. The government budgeted $3 million for the program,
Statistics demonstrate that crime rates in Australia have increased substantially since the government there instituted a gun buy-back program in 1997. [SEP] Gun buyback program // two-month program, and it was deemed a failure, though no reason for the crime rate increase was given. Similar programs followed in other cities, including some cities that repeated their programs. However, no evaluation of such programs were published until 1994, after three researchers analyzed a 1992 buyback in Seattle, Washington. The study found that the "effect on decreasing violent crime and reducing firearm mortality is unknown." Gun buybacks have been held in Tucson (one in 2013) and Phoenix (three in 2013). In 2013, House Bill 2455 was signed into law by Governor Jan Brewer. H.B. 2455 and Arizona Revised
Statistics demonstrate that crime rates in Australia have increased substantially since the government there instituted a gun buy-back program in 1997. [SEP] Gun buyback program // (or US$30 to US$145) per firearm depending on its type. All types of firearms were accepted including legal as well as illegal weapons. The 2007-2008 buyback collected a total of 104,782 firearms or around 7% of the county's estimated total number of firearms as well as 747,000 units of ammunition. Indications are that the buyback was successful in reducing the number of gun related deaths from accidents and has done quite a few to reduce the number of gun related deaths in suicides, homicides and car thefts. Australia had mandatory buyback programs in 1996 and 2003. Both programs were temporary
Statistics demonstrate that crime rates in Australia have increased substantially since the government there instituted a gun buy-back program in 1997. [SEP] Gun laws in Australia // paper from the Australian Institute for Suicide Research and Prevention at Griffith University also studied suicide in Queensland only. The said "No significant difference was found in the rate pre/post the introduction of the NFA in Queensland; however, a significant difference was found for Australian data, the quality of which is noticeably less satisfactory." A 2010 study by Christine Neill and Andrew Leigh found the 1997 gun buyback scheme reduced firearm suicides by 74% while having no effect on non-firearm suicides or substitution of method. A 2014 report stated that approximately "260,000 guns are on the Australian 'grey' or black
Statistics demonstrate that crime rates in Australia have increased substantially since the government there instituted a gun buy-back program in 1997. [SEP] Gun buyback program // and involved compensation paid to owners of firearms made illegal by gun law changes and surrendered to the government. Bought back firearms were destroyed. The 1996 "National Firearms Buyback Program" took 660,959 firearms out of private hands comprising long guns, mostly semi-automatic rimfire rifles and shotguns as well as pump-action shotguns, and a smaller proportion of higher powered or military type semi-automatic rifles. Because the Australian Constitution requires the Commonwealth to pay "just compensation" for private property it takes over, the Government increased the Medicare levy from 1.5% to 1.7% of income for one year to finance the buyback program.
Statistics demonstrate that crime rates in Australia have increased substantially since the government there instituted a gun buy-back program in 1997. [SEP] Gun laws in Australia // Criminology to monitor the effects of the gun buyback. The institute has published a number of papers reporting trends and statistics around gun ownership and gun crime. Many studies have followed, providing varying results stemming from different methodologies and areas of focus. David Hemenway and Mary Vriniotis of Harvard University, funded by the Joyce Foundation summarized the research in 2011 and concluded; “it would have been difficult to imagine more compelling future evidence of a beneficial effect.” They said that a complication in evaluating the effect of the NFA was that gun deaths were falling in the early 1990s. They
Health officials in Omaha confirm 2 pediatric flu deaths. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic timeline // study shows that children are twice as likely as adults to catch H1N1. United States CDC FluView Week 52: The proportion of deaths attributed to P&I falls below the epidemic threshold. No influenza activity is reported in Nebraska. "One state reported geographically widespread influenza activity, 12 states reported regional influenza activity, Puerto Rico, the District of Columbia, and 17 states reported local influenza activity, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, 19 states reported sporadic influenza activity, and one state reported no influenza activity." United States The CDC reports that only one state —Alabama— reports widespread influenza activity. Mali First case confirmed.
Health officials in Omaha confirm 2 pediatric flu deaths. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic in the United States by state // reported in a teen boy attending a Minneapolis Public School. A Minneapolis five-year-old girl had succumbed to the flu during the week of June 8. As of July 23, 684 cases and three deaths have been reported. As of January 13,2 more people died of confirmed A/H1N1 influenza, increasing the number of confirmed deathsfrom H1N1 to 55 in the state.However, H1N1 influenza activity is currently low in Minnesota, with only one school outbreak reported in the first week of 2010. In Missouri, Gov. Jay Nixon announced in a written statement that a probable case had been discovered in a Platte
Health officials in Omaha confirm 2 pediatric flu deaths. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic in the United States by state // been confirmed. On May 11, 2009, the Montana Department of Public Health and Human Services (DPHHH) reported the state's first confirmed case of swine flu. As of July 26, there have been 122 reported cases. As of January 21, there have been 801 confirmed cases of A/H1N1, and 18 confirmed deaths due to H1N1 flu. As of July 26, 2009, there are 313 confirmed cases of swine flu in Nebraska. Nebraska has recorded sixteen hospitalizations and three deaths. as of December 11,13 deaths from A/H1N1 influenza have been reported. The first confirmed case of the virus was reported in Nevada
Health officials in Omaha confirm 2 pediatric flu deaths. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic in the United States by state // it was announced that a man from Snohomish County, in his thirties with a pre-existing heart condition and active viral pneumonia, became the third confirmed US death from swine flu-involved complications. As of January 23, there have been 1383 confirmed cases of H1N1N that required hospital care in the second wave of H1N1 (since September 19, 2009), and 76 deaths. On July 1, 2009, it was reported that the Tri-Cities had its first case of swine flu. On June 18, 2009, Grant County Health Department reported six cases of swine flu in Quincy. As of the evening of May 22,
Health officials in Omaha confirm 2 pediatric flu deaths. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic in the United States by state // there had been 30 deaths from H1N1 in Utah, 18 through August 31, 2009 and a further 12 since that time. On November 18, 2009 the Utah State Health department reported five more deaths from swine flu. The Vermont Department of Health announced a probable case of the H1N1 virus in rural Orleans County. A second case of the flu was confirmed involving an adult in Windsor County. As of July 22, there have been 62 laboratory confirmed cases. The Virginia Department of Health had confirmed 14 cases in the state by May 7, and a total of 23 by
Health officials in Omaha confirm 2 pediatric flu deaths. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic in Europe // Greece and the United Kingdom. On 6 November the Netherlands National Institute for Public Health and the Environment reported there are 5 more cases of death (this brings the total to 17) and that there is an epidemic, which means more than 51 per 100,000 inhabitants contracted the flu, more than 2 weeks in a row. On 4 December the number of fatalities rose to 42. On 4 January 2011, it was confirmed that another 2 children died of swine flu. One of them would be a 4-year-old girl. They both lived in the region of Nijmegen, Gelderland. They died
Health officials in Omaha confirm 2 pediatric flu deaths. [SEP] 2017–18 United States flu season // recent flu outbreak had killed at least 63 children. On February 10, 2018, officials in New York City confirmed the third pediatric flu death for the 2017–2018 season. The week prior, 43 states reported high patient traffic for the flu, with flu remaining widespread in each state except Hawaii and Oregon. California was hit especially hard by the 2017–18 flu outbreak. In California as of 6 January, twenty-seven people under the age of 65 died from flu since October, nine times as many as the prior year. The Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center emergency room, which often caters to about
Health officials in Omaha confirm 2 pediatric flu deaths. [SEP] 2009 Flu pandemic in North America // Control and Prevention had officially confirmed through tests that a 23-month-old child was infected with the flu. When the sickness continued to worsen the next day, he was transferred to Texas Children's Hospital in Houston, where he died. On May 5, Judy Trunnell, a woman in her 30's suffering from "chronic underlying health conditions" died of swine flu in Cameron County, near the US-Mexico border. She was the first US citizen to die from the disease. The woman, a special education teacher, had recently given birth to an eight-month-term healthy baby, delivered by caesarian section. She had been in a
Health officials in Omaha confirm 2 pediatric flu deaths. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic in the United States by state // Hospital sent samples in to the CDC. There are also possible cases at the Baylor College of Medicine outpatient clinic, Memorial Hermann Hospital, and St. Luke's Hospital. A 23-month-old Mexican toddler who had been brought to Houston from Brownsville died on April 27, making the child the first US death due to the outbreak. The child had traveled with his family from Mexico to Brownsville to visit relatives. The infant was admitted to a Brownsville hospital after becoming ill, then transferred to Texas Children's Hospital the next day. The toddler suffered from chronic muscle weakness, a heart defect, a swallowing
Health officials in Omaha confirm 2 pediatric flu deaths. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic timeline // bodies of two infants who died in the outbreak. United States CDC FluView, Week 13: Widespread influenza activity in four states, regional activity in 18. European Union The media monitoring website MedISys reports on a Mexican article about the epidemiological alert. Mexico Public health authorities begin investigating unusual cases of pneumonia. 400 people had reportedly sought treatment for pneumonia/influenza-like illness (ILI) in La Gloria the preceding week. Biosurveillance firm Veratect reports the unusual respiratory illness in Mexico. Veratect publishes the alert "La Gloria: 'Strange' Respiratory Affects 60% of Local Population; Three Pediatric Deaths May be Associated with the Outbreak." United
We reduced abortion. We increased adoptions by 135 percent. [SEP] Bill Clinton // that had been imposed by Reagan and Bush. Clinton said that abortion should be kept "safe, legal, and rare"—a slogan that had been suggested by University of California, San Diego political scientist Samuel L. Popkin and first used by Clinton in December 1991, while campaigning. During the eight years of the Clinton administration, the U.S. abortion rate declined by about 18.4 percent. On February 15, 1993, Clinton made his first address to the nation, announcing his plan to raise taxes to close a budget deficit. Two days later, in a nationally televised address to a joint session of Congress, Clinton
We reduced abortion. We increased adoptions by 135 percent. [SEP] Kathleen Sebelius // induced abortions in Kansas declined by 1,568, or 12.6%, from 2001 to 2007, the year of the most recently available statistics. Her administration attributes the decline to health care reforms that Sebelius initiated, including "adoption incentives, extended health services for pregnant women..., sex education and... a variety of support services for families." Nationally, the number of abortions declined approximately 7.6% from 2000 to 2005, the year of the most recently available and reliable U.S. statistics. Sebelius has been endorsed by Planned Parenthood, which has raised funds on her behalf. In 2003, 2005, 2006, and again in 2008, Sebelius vetoed legislation
We reduced abortion. We increased adoptions by 135 percent. [SEP] John Lott // single parent homes with crime they build an argument that liberalization of abortion laws increased murder rates by around about 0.5 to 7 percent. In a review of the literature on the relationship between abortion and crime, Theodore Joyce, an economist at Baruch College and the National Bureau of Economic Research, praised Lott and Whitley for gathering additional data on abortion but criticized the methodology that they used. In 2000, Lott argued, using a regression analysis, that George W. Bush lost at least 10,000 votes in Florida after the media incorrectly called the state for Al Gore while voting was
We reduced abortion. We increased adoptions by 135 percent. [SEP] Texas Senate Bill 5 // rates by 32 percent, and an increase to 200 or more miles reduces abortion rates by 47 percent. We also introduce a proxy for congestion that predicts additional reductions in abortion rates as fewer clinics serve more women." Another 2017 National Bureau of Economic Research paper found that "In-state abortions fell 20% and births rose 3% in counties that no longer had an abortion provider within 50 miles. Births increased 1% and contraceptive purchases rose 8% in counties without a publicly-funded family planning clinic within 25 miles." A 2016 study interviewed 23 women in Texas who had sought abortions at
We reduced abortion. We increased adoptions by 135 percent. [SEP] Lifewatch, Taskforce of United Methodists on Abortion and Sexuality // clergymen. By the time General Conference convened in 2016, over 44,000,000 abortions had been performed with a 400% increase in out-of-wedlock births. The new resolution was overwhelmingly re-adopted 56-2 (97,3 percent), decrying gender-selective abortion, describing abortion as "violent" and opposing it for "trivial reasons." This was seen as a major win that restored a pro-life perspective within Methodism. Over a century ago, Methodists were known for their commitment in supporting mothers with unplanned pregnancies, Several abortion-prevention and pro-adoption ministries are continuing today. Nevertheless, the Oregon-Idaho, California-Nevada, New England, New York and the Pacific-Northwest Annual Conferences all voted to join RCRC
We reduced abortion. We increased adoptions by 135 percent. [SEP] Unintended pregnancy // 3% of all live births. According to the 2010 census, there were 1,527,020 adopted children in the United States, representing 2.5 percent of all U.S. children. Over the six years between 1995 and 2000 there were an estimated 338 million pregnancies that were unintended and unwanted worldwide (28% of the total 1.2 billion pregnancies during that period). These unwanted pregnancies resulted in nearly 700,000 maternal deaths (approximately one-fifth of maternal deaths during that period). More than one-third of the deaths were from problems associated with pregnancy or childbirth, but the majority (64%) were from complications from unsafe or unsanitary abortion.
We reduced abortion. We increased adoptions by 135 percent. [SEP] American Health Care Reform Act of 2013 // place the female in danger of death unless an abortion is performed, including a life-endangering physical condition caused by or arising from the pregnancy itself. Eliminate a 3.8 percent tax on investment income for high-income individuals and families. Eliminating the tax would save these taxpayers $158 billion over the next decade, according to the nonpartisan Committee on Taxation, the official scorekeeper for Congress. About 90 percent of the benefit from repealing the tax would go to the top 1 percent of earners, who make $700,000 or more, according to the nonpartisan Tax Policy Center. Repeal an extra 0.9 percent Medicare
We reduced abortion. We increased adoptions by 135 percent. [SEP] Unintended pregnancy // of which 26 per 1,000 ended in abortion. The rate of intended pregnancy was 79 per 1,000. The estimated 208 million pregnancies in 2008 resulted in 102 million intended births, 41 million induced abortions, 33 million unintended births, and 31 million miscarriages. Globally, the proportion of married women practicing contraception increased from 54% in 1990 to 63% in 2003. The global rate of unintended pregnancy declined from 69 per 1,000 women in 1995. The decline was greatest in the more developed world. Worldwide, 38% of pregnancies were unintended in 1999 (some 80 million unintended pregnancies in 1999). In developed world
We reduced abortion. We increased adoptions by 135 percent. [SEP] Unintended pregnancy // of 5 to 6 abortions per 1,000 women. US birth rates declined in the 1970s. Factors that are likely to have led to this decline include: The introduction of the birth control pill in 1960, and its subsequent rapid increase in popularity; the completion of legalization of contraceptives in the 1960s and early 1970s; the introduction of federal funding for family planning in the 1960s and Title X in 1970; increased career and educational gains for women and its consequence of increased opportunity costs; and the legalization of abortion, which was completed in 1973. The decline in the birth rate
We reduced abortion. We increased adoptions by 135 percent. [SEP] Bound4life // that over 320,000 participants have taken this pledge. References are also made to promoting adoption as a legitimate alternative to abortion regardless of circumstances. Bound4LIFE participants in the past have shown interest in and have attempted to directly and indirectly influence federal and state legislation through personal contact and voter mobilization. In its 5-year anniversary issue, Relevant Magazine listed Lou Engle and the red "LIFE" tape as one of the top 35 ideas that have changed the world. Bound4life Bound4LIFE is a grassroots anti-abortion organization originating in the United States. The non-profit organization was founded in 2004 by Lou Engle
Five-minute neck scan can spot dementia 10 years earlier, say scientists [SEP] Neuroimaging // machines to cut imaging time and give higher resolution. Like PET, SPECT also can be used to differentiate different kinds of disease processes which produce dementia, and it is increasingly used for this purpose. Neuro-PET has a disadvantage of requiring the use of tracers with half-lives of at most 110 minutes, such as FDG. These must be made in a cyclotron, and are expensive or even unavailable if necessary transport times are prolonged more than a few half-lives. SPECT, however, is able to make use of tracers with much longer half-lives, such as technetium-99m, and as a result, is far
Five-minute neck scan can spot dementia 10 years earlier, say scientists [SEP] Dementia // in assessing long-standing cognitive dysfunction, since they have shown similar ability to diagnose dementia as a clinical exam and cognitive testing. The ability of SPECT to differentiate the vascular cause (i.e., multi-infarct dementia) from Alzheimer's disease dementias, appears superior to differentiation by clinical exam. Recent research has established the value of PET imaging using carbon-11 Pittsburgh Compound B as a radiotracer (PIB-PET) in predictive diagnosis of various kinds of dementia, in particular Alzheimer's disease. Studies from Australia have found PIB-PET 86% accurate in predicting which patients with mild cognitive impairment will develop Alzheimer's disease within two years. In another study,
Five-minute neck scan can spot dementia 10 years earlier, say scientists [SEP] Avid Radiopharmaceuticals // with symptoms of Alzheimer's disease detected plaque in a PET scan in areas where it was typically found in the brain. Further tests found that the scans detected plaque in patients with Alzheimer's, didn't find it in those without the diagnosis and found intermediate amounts in patients with early signs of dementia. The tests found amyloid plaque in 20% of its test patients over age 60 that had been in the normal range, but had performed worse than a control group on tests of mental acuity. In order to confirm if the dye was accurate in detecting Alzheimer's, an advisory
Five-minute neck scan can spot dementia 10 years earlier, say scientists [SEP] Dementia // many cases, the diagnosis cannot be absolutely sure except with a brain biopsy, but this is very rarely recommended (though it can be performed at autopsy). In those who are getting older, general screening for cognitive impairment using cognitive testing or early diagnosis of dementia has not been shown to improve outcomes. However, it has been shown that screening exams are useful in those people over the age of 65 with memory complaints. Normally, symptoms must be present for at least six months to support a diagnosis. Cognitive dysfunction of shorter duration is called "delirium". Delirium can be easily confused
Five-minute neck scan can spot dementia 10 years earlier, say scientists [SEP] Frontotemporal dementia // MRI scans often reveal frontal lobe and/or anterior temporal lobe atrophy but in early cases the scan may seem normal. Atrophy can be either bilateral or asymmetric. Registration of images at different points of time (e.g., one year apart) can show evidence of atrophy that otherwise (at individual time points) may be reported as normal. Many research groups have begun using techniques such as magnetic resonance spectroscopy, functional imaging and cortical thickness measurements in an attempt to offer an earlier diagnosis to the FTD patient. Fluorine-18-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) scans classically show frontal and/or anterior temporal hypometabolism, which helps
Five-minute neck scan can spot dementia 10 years earlier, say scientists [SEP] Florbetapir (18F) // of Alzheimer's disease detected plaque in a PET scan in areas where it was typically found in the brain. Further tests found that the scans detected plaque in patients with Alzheimer's, didn't find it in those without the diagnosis and found intermediate amounts in patients with early signs of dementia. The tests found amyloid plaque in 20% of its test patients over age 60 that had been in the normal range, but had performed worse than a control group on tests of mental acuity. In order to confirm if the dye was accurate in detecting Alzheimer's, an advisory committee at
Five-minute neck scan can spot dementia 10 years earlier, say scientists [SEP] Time-based prospective memory // known or suspected dementia. The examiner asked the patients for a personal possession, which was then placed into a drawer in full view of the patient. They were then asked to request for their possession to be returned at the end of the testing period which was between 2–3 hours. At the end of the experiment the examiner would say, "O.K. We are done with testing. Let's find Dr. X." If the patient was able to remember to request for their item, she/he earned a score of zero because no additional cues were needed. If the patient was unable to
Five-minute neck scan can spot dementia 10 years earlier, say scientists [SEP] Neurotechnology // In addition, PET scans have been found to be 93% accurate in detecting Alzheimer's disease nearly 3 years before conventional diagnosis, indicating that PET scanning is becoming more useful in both the laboratory and the clinic. Stem cell technologies are always salient both in the minds of the general public and scientists because of their large potential. Recent advances in stem cell research have allowed researchers to ethically pursue studies in nearly every facet of the body, which includes the brain. Research has shown that while most of the brain does not regenerate and is typically a very difficult environment
Five-minute neck scan can spot dementia 10 years earlier, say scientists [SEP] Michael I. Miller // one of the papers that contributed to a deeper understanding of the disorder in its earlier stages and the recommendations of the working group to revise the diagnostic criteria for Alzheimer’s disease dementia for the first time in 27 years. In 2009, the Johns Hopkins University BIOCARD project was initiated, led by Marilyn Albert, to study preclinical Alzheimer's disease. In 2014, Miller and Younes demonstrated that the original Braak staging of the earliest change associated to the entorhinal cortex in the medial temporal lobe could be demonstrated via diffeomorphometry methods in the population of clinical MRIs, and subsequently that this
Five-minute neck scan can spot dementia 10 years earlier, say scientists [SEP] Avid Radiopharmaceuticals // without the disease. In results presented in July 2010 to an international conference on Alzheimer's disease held in Hawaii, the company showed that for 34 out of the 35 hospice patients who had been scanned, the initial scan results were confirmed when pathologists counted plaque under a microscope and when a computerized scan of the plaque was performed on material from the autopsied brain. The findings will require review by the FDA to confirm its reliability as a means of diagnosing the disease. If confirmed, the technique would provide a means to reliably diagnose and monitor the progress of Alzheimer's
After discovering a doomsday asteroid was approaching Earth, world leaders created the COVID-19 pandemic in an effort to distract the world population and force everyone to spend time with their families during Earth's final days. [SEP] Birth of an Age // John and Cohen speaking prophecies about the plagues, quickly gain the world's attention. They become despised, being recognized as the harbingers of destruction, and they are blamed for the plagues. Three asteroids are discovered, one of which is on a collision course with Earth. The UN launches a series of nuclear missiles at the asteroid in order to deflect or destroy the asteroid. The other two asteroids shift trajectories to a collision course with Earth. The first asteroid passes through Earth's atmosphere almost parallel to the ground, but close enough to cause incredible amounts of damage due to the force
After discovering a doomsday asteroid was approaching Earth, world leaders created the COVID-19 pandemic in an effort to distract the world population and force everyone to spend time with their families during Earth's final days. [SEP] Pandorum // by deep space and triggered by emotional stress. This leads leading to severe paranoia, delirium, and nosebleeding. In 2174, human overpopulation has depleted all the resources on Earth, leading humanity to build a huge interstellar ark named "Elysium". It carries 60,000 people on a 123-year trip to colonize an Earth-like planet named Tanis, set to arrive in 2297. The passengers are placed in hypersleep, with a rotating crew who take turns awakening from hypersleep every two years to maintain the ship. Eight years into the mission, the ship receives a transmission from Earth in multiple languages: "You're all that's left
After discovering a doomsday asteroid was approaching Earth, world leaders created the COVID-19 pandemic in an effort to distract the world population and force everyone to spend time with their families during Earth's final days. [SEP] Crossout // depict life on Earth 20 years after the disaster, and 200 years before Ex Machina. In the year 2027 the planet was swept over with a mysterious pandemic disease, that started to spread simultaneously all over the planet. Those few who survived the first days were then haunted by hallucinations, headaches and nightmares, most chose to end their lives. Neither the source of the disease, called “Crossout” by the media, nor the nature of the pathogen were identified. The planet was overthrown with chaos as the population fled the larger cities, leaving them as graveyards. In just a few dreadful
After discovering a doomsday asteroid was approaching Earth, world leaders created the COVID-19 pandemic in an effort to distract the world population and force everyone to spend time with their families during Earth's final days. [SEP] The Day the Sky Exploded // McCleary and his wife have a breakup. The explosion dislodges the asteroids from their orbits. They coalesce into one giant cluster heading for Earth. When there seems to be no reasonable hope that humans can avoid the crash, scientists find that the Moon will pass in front of the cluster, shielding Earth from most of it. However, a small part of the cluster is not shielded and continues towards the Earth. As the cluster approaches it causes worldwide disasters: tidal waves, wind, firestorms and earthquakes. Mass evacuations lead to panic and riots. Mankind's only hope is to arm every missile
After discovering a doomsday asteroid was approaching Earth, world leaders created the COVID-19 pandemic in an effort to distract the world population and force everyone to spend time with their families during Earth's final days. [SEP] Apocalyptic and post-apocalyptic fiction // they return to Earth to find a couple colonies of survivors struggling on a harsh planet completely different from the Earth the Remnants knew. In the obscure 2013 Australian film "These Final Hours", a massive asteroid hits the Atlantic ocean dooming all life. The film follows James, who decides to head to the 'party-to-end-all-parties' and there spend the last 12 hours before the global firestorm reaches Western Australia. In id Software's video game "Rage" (2011), Earth is heavily damaged, and humanity nearly wiped out, by the direct collision of the real asteroid 99942 Apophis with the Earth in the year
After discovering a doomsday asteroid was approaching Earth, world leaders created the COVID-19 pandemic in an effort to distract the world population and force everyone to spend time with their families during Earth's final days. [SEP] Birth of an Age // is obliterated by the nuclear missiles launched by the UN. When the asteroid's dust reached earth, it contains a large amount of arsenic, which poisoned Earth's water supply creating a global outbreak of arsenic poisoning. Soon, locust-like creatures appear in massive swarms injecting people with a painful neurotoxin. After five months they die "en masse". Christopher Goodman, the clone of Christ, discovers that he had the power of healing and soothes people who had been stung by the locust. He healed hundreds of people, including several members of the UN Security Council, and their families, as well as Decker Hawthorne.
After discovering a doomsday asteroid was approaching Earth, world leaders created the COVID-19 pandemic in an effort to distract the world population and force everyone to spend time with their families during Earth's final days. [SEP] World of Tomorrow (film) // died suddenly; thus, ending the David clone lineage. Emily Clone proceeded to harvest her deceased husband's memories, and reflects upon the memories of their relationship with feelings of melancholia. In the final memory, the clone Emily reveals that in sixty days, Earth will be destroyed by a meteoroid. Due to the hysteria surrounding the impending apocalypse, humans have resorted to leaving the planet through different and extreme means, depending on what they can afford. Because of the unpredictable nature of physical time travel, millions of humans have transported themselves to the edges of the Earth's atmosphere, dying instantly and creating
After discovering a doomsday asteroid was approaching Earth, world leaders created the COVID-19 pandemic in an effort to distract the world population and force everyone to spend time with their families during Earth's final days. [SEP] Meteor Apocalypse // Meteor Apocalypse Meteor Apocalypse is a 2009 American science fiction film directed by Micho Rutare. A long-period comet's orbit is determined to be crossing directly in the path of Earth's orbit. All of the world's nuclear states fire their missiles at the comet, but pieces of the comet continue to strike the Earth, contaminating the groundwater and causing millions to become sick. The story follows David Dmatti (Joe Lando) as he searches for his wife Kate (Claudia Christian) and sick daughter Allison (Madison McLaughlin). They were initially quarantined in the Las Vegas Valley. David finds and revives Lynn (Cooper Harris)
After discovering a doomsday asteroid was approaching Earth, world leaders created the COVID-19 pandemic in an effort to distract the world population and force everyone to spend time with their families during Earth's final days. [SEP] The Stand // vaccines. A pandemic of apocalyptic proportions is triggered, which eventually kills off 99.4% of the world's human population. As the pandemic intensifies it gains many names, "Captain Trips" and the superflu being the most used. A multi-faceted narrative—told partly from the perspective of primary characters—outlines the total breakdown and destruction of society through widespread violence; the failure of martial law to contain the outbreak; the military's increasingly violent efforts to censor information; the rapid collapse of society; the deliberate exposure of the virus in the Soviet Union and China to guarantee their destruction as well and, finally, the near-extinction of
After discovering a doomsday asteroid was approaching Earth, world leaders created the COVID-19 pandemic in an effort to distract the world population and force everyone to spend time with their families during Earth's final days. [SEP] Phoenix Point // to the game. In 2022, Earth's scientists discovered an extraterrestrial virus in permafrost that had begun to melt. Only about one percent of the virus's genome matched anything recorded by scientists up to that time. Named the Pandoravirus, humans and animals who came into contact with it mutated into horrific abominations. By the late 2020s, a global apocalypse began when melting polar icecaps released the Pandoravirus into the world's oceans. The alien virus quickly dominated the oceans, mutating sea creatures of every size into hybrid alien monsters capable of crawling on to land. The oceans transformed in alien ways after
Weighing effectiveness versus risk in obesity drugs [SEP] Management of obesity // National Institutes of Health recommend a weight loss goal of 5% to 10% of the person's current weight over six months. One medication, orlistat, is current widely available and approved for long term use. Weight loss however is modest with an average of at 1 to 4 years and there is little information on how these drugs affect longer-term complications of obesity. Its use is associated with high rates of gastrointestinal side effects. The most effective treatment for obesity is bariatric surgery. Surgery for severe obesity is associated with long-term weight loss and decreased overall mortality. One study found a
Weighing effectiveness versus risk in obesity drugs [SEP] Management of obesity // commonly used medications. Some are only approved for short term use, others are used off-label, and still others are used illegally. Most are appetite suppressants that act on one or more neurotransmitters. Racemic amphetamine, phendimetrazine, diethylpropion, and phentermine are approved by the FDA for short term use, while bupropion, topiramate, and zonisamide are sometimes used off-label. Recombinant human leptin is very effective in those with obesity due to congenital complete leptin deficiency via decreasing energy intake and possibly increases energy expenditure. This condition is, however, rare and this treatment is not effective for inducing weight loss in the majority of
Weighing effectiveness versus risk in obesity drugs [SEP] Management of obesity // people with obesity. It is being investigated to determine whether or not it helps with weight loss maintenance. The usefulness of certain drugs depends upon the comorbidities present. Metformin is preferred in overweight diabetics, as it may lead to mild weight loss in comparison to sulfonylureas or insulin. The thiazolidinediones, on the other hand, may cause weight gain, but decrease central obesity. Diabetics also achieve modest weight loss with fluoxetine, orlistat and sibutramine over 12–57 weeks. Preliminary evidence has however found higher number of cardiovascular events in people taking sibutramine verses control (11.4% vs. 10.0%). The long-term health benefits of
Weighing effectiveness versus risk in obesity drugs [SEP] Anti-obesity medication // Anti-obesity medication Anti-obesity medication or weight loss drugs are pharmacological agents that reduce or control weight. These drugs alter one of the fundamental processes of the human body, weight regulation, by altering either appetite, or absorption of calories. The main treatment modalities for overweight and obese individuals remain dieting and physical exercise. In the United States orlistat (Xenical) is currently approved by the FDA for long-term use. It reduces intestinal fat absorption by inhibiting pancreatic lipase. Rimonabant (Acomplia), a second drug, works via a specific blockade of the endocannabinoid system. It has been developed from the knowledge that cannabis smokers
Weighing effectiveness versus risk in obesity drugs [SEP] Anti-obesity medication // been evaluated in Phase 1 and Phase 2 human clinical studies with the aim of investigating treatment potential with regards to obesity. Dietary supplements, foodstuffs, or programs for weight loss are heavily promoted through advertisements in print, on television, and on the internet. The US Food and Drug Administration recommends caution with use of these products, since many of the claims of safety and effectiveness are unsubstantiated, and many of the studies purporting to demonstrate their effectiveness are funded by the manufactures and suffer a high degree of bias. Individuals with anorexia nervosa or bulimia nervosa, and some athletes, try
Weighing effectiveness versus risk in obesity drugs [SEP] Obesity // rejected the latter two drugs in part because of associations of heart valve problems with lorcaserin and more general heart and blood vessel problems with phentermine–topiramate. Orlistat use is associated with high rates of gastrointestinal side effects and concerns have been raised about negative effects on the kidneys. There is no information on how these drugs affect longer-term complications of obesity such as cardiovascular disease or death. The most effective treatment for obesity is bariatric surgery. The types of procedures include laparoscopic adjustable gastric banding, Roux-en-Y gastric bypass, vertical-sleeve gastrectomy, and biliopancreatic diversion. Surgery for severe obesity is associated with
Weighing effectiveness versus risk in obesity drugs [SEP] Childhood obesity // Orlistat and sibutramine may be helpful in managing moderate obesity in adolescence. Metformin is minimally useful. A Cochrane review in 2016 concluded that medications might reduce BMI and bodyweight to a small extent in obese children and adolescents. This conclusion was based only on low quality evidence. As of 2015 there is not good evidence comparing surgery to lifestyle change for obesity in children. There are a number of high quality ongoing studies looking at this issue. From 1980 to 2013, the prevalence of overweight and obesity in children increased by nearly 50%. Currently 10% of children worldwide are either
Weighing effectiveness versus risk in obesity drugs [SEP] Anti-obesity medication // limited evidence of small benefits in weight reduction especially in obese children and adolescents, it is recommended that anti-obesity drugs only be prescribed for obesity where it is hoped that the benefits of the treatment outweigh its risks. Current and potential anti-obesity drugs may operate through one or more of the following mechanisms: Anorectics are primarily intended to suppress the appetite, but most of the drugs in this class also act as stimulants (e.g., amphetamine), and patients have abused drugs "off label" to suppress appetite (e.g. digoxin). The first described attempts at producing weight loss are those of Soranus of
Weighing effectiveness versus risk in obesity drugs [SEP] Lorcaserin // panel voted 19-4-1 to recommend lorcaserin to the FDA. The FDA stated that the weight loss data passed FDA standards for efficacy and that the drug did not have cancer risks based on clarifications in the data. The FDA panelist recommended that postmarketing studies regarding potential heart valve issues be completed. The FDA has not stated one way or the other whether they believe this is necessary at this time although no related safety markers have been indicated during clinical studies. On 27 June 2012, the FDA officially approved lorcaserin for use in the treatment of obesity for some adults.
Weighing effectiveness versus risk in obesity drugs [SEP] Obesity // Dietary and lifestyle changes are effective in limiting excessive weight gain in pregnancy and improve outcomes for both the mother and the child. Intensive behavioral counseling is recommended in those who are both obese and have other risk factors for heart disease. Five medications have evidence for long-term use orlistat, lorcaserin, liraglutide, phentermine–topiramate, and naltrexone–bupropion. They result in weight loss after one year ranged from 3.0 to 6.7 kg (6.6-14.8 lbs) over placebo. Orlistat, liraglutide, and naltrexone–bupropion are available in both the United States and Europe, whereas lorcaserin and phentermine–topiramate are available only in the United States. European regulatory authorities
Brain-dead Canadian woman kept on life support to save fetus. [SEP] Death of Marlise Muñoz // a paramedic like her husband, had previously told him that in case of brain death, she would not want to be kept alive artificially. While she had been declared dead, the condition of her fetus was unknown. It was unclear whether the fetus sustained any injuries from her fall or the intervening time period before her body was stabilized at the hospital. Erick Muñoz petitioned for Marlise to be removed from all life-sustaining measures once brain death had been declared. The hospital refused, citing a Texas law which required that lifesaving measures be maintained if a female patient was pregnant—even
Brain-dead Canadian woman kept on life support to save fetus. [SEP] Maternal somatic support after brain death // effort to save the fetus can be considered a medical experiment that requires ethics committee or IRB-approval before a facility can perform this work. Keeping a medically declared 'brain dead' woman on life support to sustain a potentially viable fetus is a topic of considerable debate and controversy. Such circumstances involve considerable moral, ethical, biological and legal issues. There is heavy discourse between biomedical and legal experts regarding whether a dead person is "a dysfunctional incubator" to an unborn fetus. And, further deliberation surrounds a woman's rights under the 14th Amendment to make medical decisions about her own body. There
Brain-dead Canadian woman kept on life support to save fetus. [SEP] Texas Alliance for Life // hardline Texas Right to Life PAC "has thrown its weight behind ultra-conservative newcomers." Pojman argued for continuation of artificial life support for the body of Marlise Munoz. She was 14 weeks pregnant when her husband found her unconscious in November, possibly from a blood clot. Munoz subsequently died from brain death. Prior to her death, Munoz had indicated that she would not like to be kept artificially alive if brain dead. The fetus had suffered from oxygen deprivation and was suspected to be non-viable; the fetus's lower extremities were deformed to the extent that the gender couldn't be determined, had
Brain-dead Canadian woman kept on life support to save fetus. [SEP] John Peter Smith Hospital // November 2013, possibly from a pulmonary embolism. She was subsequently declared brain dead after her arrival at JPS Hospital. Munoz had previously indicated to her husband that she would not like to be kept artificially alive if brain dead. The fetus had suffered from oxygen deprivation and was suspected to be non-viable. Fetus' lower extremities were deformed to the extent that the gender couldn't be determined. Fetus also had fluid building up inside the skull (Hydrocephalus) and possibly had a heart problem. A 2002 study estimated the cost for an ICU bed in an average U.S. hospital is $2,000 to
Brain-dead Canadian woman kept on life support to save fetus. [SEP] Maternal somatic support after brain death // Maternal somatic support after brain death Maternal somatic support after brain death occurs when a brain dead patient is pregnant and her body is kept alive to deliver a fetus. It occurs very rarely internationally. Even among brain dead patients, in a U.S. study of 252 brain dead patients from 1990–96, only 5 (2.8%) cases involved pregnant women between 15 and 45 years of age. In the 28-year period between 1982 and 2010, there were "30 [reported] cases of maternal brain death (19 case reports and 1 case series)." In 12 of those cases, a viable child was delivered via
Brain-dead Canadian woman kept on life support to save fetus. [SEP] Maternal somatic support after brain death // pregnant woman becomes brain dead, the mother can no longer acknowledge the fetus; as such, the mother no longer has a moral responsibility for keeping the fetus alive. Without an advance directive stating that the woman wishes to be kept alive to save her unborn child, prolonging life is unethical. Finally, some ethicists have argued that there are no ethical dilemmas inherent in the case of a pregnant woman who is declared brain dead. They argue that because the brain dead patient is no longer alive, he or she ceases to be a patient; the continuation of ventilation in an
Brain-dead Canadian woman kept on life support to save fetus. [SEP] Susan Torres // for a perforated intestine. Susan Torres Susan Michelle Rollin Torres (November 23, 1978 – August 3, 2005) was an American woman known for giving birth to a baby girl while brain dead and on a life support machine. Torres had suffered a stroke on May 7, 2005 as a consequence of her undiagnosed Stage IV Malignant Melanoma, and was taken to the Virginia Hospital Center, where it was determined that cancer had spread to her brain. At the hospital Susan Torres was diagnosed as being brain dead and her husband, Jason, decided that as she was 14 weeks pregnant at
Brain-dead Canadian woman kept on life support to save fetus. [SEP] Maternal somatic support after brain death // of several states that have laws that pertain to pregnant women and advance directives or Do Not Resuscitate (DNR) directives. Specifically, 26 states have laws that ignore advance directives when a woman is terminally ill, but pregnant. This recent situation involving Marlise Muñoz raised a host of questions related to unborn fetuses, patient and family preferences, and hospital discretion in interpreting state laws that involve advance directives. The cost of maintaining a brain dead mother on life support depends on the number of days spent in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU). One might consider that every day (after viability) that
Brain-dead Canadian woman kept on life support to save fetus. [SEP] Susan Torres // Susan Torres Susan Michelle Rollin Torres (November 23, 1978 – August 3, 2005) was an American woman known for giving birth to a baby girl while brain dead and on a life support machine. Torres had suffered a stroke on May 7, 2005 as a consequence of her undiagnosed Stage IV Malignant Melanoma, and was taken to the Virginia Hospital Center, where it was determined that cancer had spread to her brain. At the hospital Susan Torres was diagnosed as being brain dead and her husband, Jason, decided that as she was 14 weeks pregnant at the time and their
Brain-dead Canadian woman kept on life support to save fetus. [SEP] Baby M (Australia) // and she was suffering from brain malformation marked by hydrocephalus that meant she was most likely retarded and would suffer seizures. Within days she developed severe breathing issues. Neonatal physician Peter Loughnan informed her parents of their daughter's poor outlook and the low quality of life she would face if she survived. He recommended the parents consider a "conservative treatment, in which Allison would be cuddled, fed and relieved of any pain," with no life-saving measures performed. He consulted with other specialists, including fellow neonatal physician Peter McDougall, who "strongly supported" Loughnan's assessment of the infant. They believed any surgery
The Simpsons" television show predicted the fire at Notre Dame Cathedral in France in April 2019. [SEP] Rome-Old and Juli-Eh // Rome-Old and Juli-Eh "Rome-old and Juli-eh" is the 15th episode of "The Simpsons"<nowiki>'</nowiki> eighteenth season. It originally aired on the Fox network in the United States on March 11, 2007. It was written by Daniel Chun, and directed by Nancy Kruse. Jane Kaczmarek guest starred as her recurring character, Judge Constance Harm. Homer surprises the family with a newly decorated basement, now a recreation room with a pinball machine, a ping-pong table and other luxury items, prompting Marge to ask how Homer could afford all this. He says he has a plan and in the next scene files for bankruptcy
The Simpsons" television show predicted the fire at Notre Dame Cathedral in France in April 2019. [SEP] Ainsi soient-ils // its closure. As of 2017, Tom Fontana was said to be involved in an American remake of the series, set in New York City and set to be aired on Netflix. Ainsi soient-ils Ainsi soient-ils, also known as The Churchmen and Thy Will Be Done in English-speaking countries, is a French television series. In The U.S., the series was shown on MHz Networks. The series takes place in the fictional seminary of the Capuchins in Paris. In the foreground are five seminarians who come from different backgrounds: Yann comes from Brittany and is a scout. Raphael comes from a rich
The Simpsons" television show predicted the fire at Notre Dame Cathedral in France in April 2019. [SEP] The Father, the Son, and the Holy Guest Star // The Father, the Son, and the Holy Guest Star "The Father, the Son and the Holy Guest Star" is the twenty-first and last episode of "The Simpsons"<nowiki>'</nowiki> sixteenth season. It originally aired on the Fox network in the United States on May 15, 2005. Originally supposed to air April 10, the episode was dropped from the week's schedule due to the death of Pope John Paul II, since this episode revolved around Catholicism. This episode is also the 350th episode in production order (in broadcast order, "Future-Drama" is the 350th episode). Springfield Elementary School is holding its medieval festival. All
The Simpsons" television show predicted the fire at Notre Dame Cathedral in France in April 2019. [SEP] Oh Brother, Where Art Thou? // Johnson Wax Headquarters in Racine, Wisconsin, all three buildings designed by Wright. In its original broadcast, "Oh Brother, Where Art Thou?" finished twenty-sixth in the ratings for the week of February 18–24, 1991. With a Nielsen rating of 15.4, equivalent to approximately 14.1 million viewing households, it was the highest-rated show on the Fox network that week. Since airing, the episode has received mostly positive reviews from television critics. The authors of the book "I Can't Believe It's a Bigger and Better Updated Unofficial Simpsons Guide", Warren Martyn and Adrian Wood, wrote that although it is "inevitable" that Homer's car
The Simpsons" television show predicted the fire at Notre Dame Cathedral in France in April 2019. [SEP] The Notre Dame de Paris Mosque // The Notre Dame de Paris Mosque The Notre Dame de Paris Mosque (also The Mosque of Notre Dame in Paris: 2048; ) is a dystopian novel written by Russian author Elena Chudinova. The novel takes place in 2048 in France, taken over and ruled by Muslim immigrants. The book is written from an anti-Islamic, and as the author asserts, Orthodox Christian viewpoint. Chudinova, who calls herself a committed Christian, calls the genre of this book, "both a novel and a mission". Muslim immigrants seized power in Western Europe. Sharia becomes the law of the land, Catholic churches are destroyed and
The Simpsons" television show predicted the fire at Notre Dame Cathedral in France in April 2019. [SEP] The Search (TV series) // Simon, but was too late to beat him to the symbol. As winners of the challenge, the male team progressed intact to episode two. Consequently, the women's team were required to take part in a poison chalice round and eventually eliminated Monica. Episode Two: Religion and Medieval French Themes First aired 14 January 2007. The second episode began at Notre Dame de Paris. The team's first clue concerned distances, which meant they must go to Point Zero where all distances in France are measured from (now known as Kilometre Zero) near the Cathedral, which had an arrow pointing to their
The Simpsons" television show predicted the fire at Notre Dame Cathedral in France in April 2019. [SEP] The Simpsons (season 16) // and Matt Selman were credited as executive producers. Originally supposed to air April 10, the episode "The Father, the Son and the Holy Guest Star" was dropped from the week's schedule due to the death of Pope John Paul II, since this episode revolved around Catholicism. As a result, it aired on May 15, 2005 in the United States, while "The Girl Who Slept Too Little", the episode intended for the finale of season 16, became a season 17 episode. The 16th season of The Simpsons has garnered generally positive reviews from critics, with many noting while the episodes are
The Simpsons" television show predicted the fire at Notre Dame Cathedral in France in April 2019. [SEP] The Simpsons (season 20) // Simpsons", Fox announced that a year-long celebration of the show titled "Best. 20 Years. Ever." would run from January 14, 2009 to January 14, 2010. Several contests were run, including the "Unleash Your Yellow" contest in which entrants designed a poster for the show and "Best. Couch Gag. Ever." where fans created their own live-action couch gag video. As part of the celebration, the Irish-themed episode "In the Name of the Grandfather" premiered on Sky1 in the United Kingdom and Ireland on March 17, 2009. It was the first-ever episode of the show to air in Europe before being seen
The Simpsons" television show predicted the fire at Notre Dame Cathedral in France in April 2019. [SEP] Margical History Tour // Imperial Palace, the Emperor is listening to Beethoven perform the Ode to Joy from his 9th Symphony on the piano. When the Emperor declares all other music obsolete, Beethoven points at Salieri and "Haw Haws" to the opening of his 5th Symphony. Margical History Tour "Margical History Tour" is the eleventh episode of "The Simpsons"<nowiki>'</nowiki> fifteenth season. It first aired on the Fox network in the United States on February 8, 2004. This is one of several Simpsons episodes that features mini-stories. Marge takes Bart, Lisa, and Milhouse to the library to study. When they go inside, they realize that
The Simpsons" television show predicted the fire at Notre Dame Cathedral in France in April 2019. [SEP] Homer Is Where the Art Isn't // Homer Is Where the Art Isn't "Homer Is Where the Art Isn't" is the twelfth episode of the twenty-ninth season of the animated television series "The Simpsons", and the 630th episode of the series overall. It aired in the United States on Fox on March 18, 2018. It is the final episode written by long time writer Kevin Curran, who died in 2016. The episode is dedicated to Stephen Hawking, who died four days before the episode's airing. At Gavelby's Auction House, Homer and Mr. Burns lose to tech mogul Megan Matheson at bidding for Joan Miró's painting "The Poetess",
During the 2005 fight over Social Security, "there were noisy demonstrations — but they were outside the events," and opponents were "not disruptive — crowds booed lines they didn’t like, but that was about it. [SEP] Montgomery Blair High School // visited the school to discuss his plan to partially privatize Social Security. Students were not permitted to attend. Bush's presence at the school drew approximately 400 protesters, who, despite the last-minute announcement of the visit, questioned both his proposed policies and the fact that this town hall-style meeting was not open to the general public. The demonstration included community members, students and union members. The police tried to move the demonstration to a park more than a block away, but protesters pointed out that there was no reason they couldn't continue their peaceful protest on the public sidewalk outside the
During the 2005 fight over Social Security, "there were noisy demonstrations — but they were outside the events," and opponents were "not disruptive — crowds booed lines they didn’t like, but that was about it. [SEP] Social Security debate in the United States // meeting before Bush appeared, because they had arrived at the event in a car with a bumper sticker reading "No More Blood for Oil". Opponents of Bush's plan have analogized his dire predictions about Social Security to similar statements that he made to muster support for the 2003 Invasion of Iraq. A dispute between the AARP and a conservative group for older Americans, USA Next, cropped up around the time of the State of the Union speech. The AARP had supported Bush's plan for major changes in Medicare in 2003, but it opposed his Social Security privatization initiative. In January
During the 2005 fight over Social Security, "there were noisy demonstrations — but they were outside the events," and opponents were "not disruptive — crowds booed lines they didn’t like, but that was about it. [SEP] Social Security debate in the United States // 2005, before the State of the Union Address, the AARP ran advertisements attacking the idea. In response, USA Next launched a campaign against AARP. Charlie Jarvis of USA Next stated: "They [AARP] are the boulder in the middle of the highway to personal savings accounts. We will be the dynamite that removes them." The tone of the debate between these two interest groups is merely one example among many of the tone of many of the debates, discussions, columns, advertisements, articles, letters, and white papers that Bush's proposal, to touch the "third rail", has sparked among politicians, pundits, thinktankers, and
During the 2005 fight over Social Security, "there were noisy demonstrations — but they were outside the events," and opponents were "not disruptive — crowds booed lines they didn’t like, but that was about it. [SEP] Jim Walden (lawyer) // law judges alleging bias against Social Security applicants. The judges named in the lawsuit rejected an average of 63 percent of the cases they heard in the fiscal year the lawsuit was filed, compared with a national average of 36 percent based on an analysis by the New York Times. This action resulted in a settlement agreement, wherein an estimated 4,000 applicants had their cases reheard and the five judges underwent retraining. Walden and the legal team drew praise from the National Organization of Social Security Claimants' Representatives for their efforts. Walden was also part of the legal team at
During the 2005 fight over Social Security, "there were noisy demonstrations — but they were outside the events," and opponents were "not disruptive — crowds booed lines they didn’t like, but that was about it. [SEP] George W. Bush // a portion of their Social Security tax (FICA) into secured investments. Democrats opposed the proposal to partially privatize the system. Bush embarked on a 60-day national tour, campaigning for his initiative in media events known as "Conversations on Social Security", in an attempt to gain public support. Nevertheless, public support for the proposal declined and the House Republican leadership decided not to put Social Security reform on the priority list for the remainder of their 2005 legislative agenda. The proposal's legislative prospects were further diminished by the fall of 2005 political fallout from Hurricane Katrina. After the Democrats gained control
During the 2005 fight over Social Security, "there were noisy demonstrations — but they were outside the events," and opponents were "not disruptive — crowds booed lines they didn’t like, but that was about it. [SEP] Social Security debate in the United States // taxpayers. Immediately after Bush's State of the Union speech, a national poll brought some good news for each side of the controversy. Only 17% of the respondents thought the Social Security system was "in a state of crisis", but 55% thought it had "major problems". The general idea of allowing private investments was favored by 40% and opposed by 55%. Specific proposals that received more support than opposition (in each case by about a two-to-one ratio) were "Limiting benefits for wealthy retirees" and "Requiring higher income workers to pay Social Security taxes on ALL of their wages". The poll was
During the 2005 fight over Social Security, "there were noisy demonstrations — but they were outside the events," and opponents were "not disruptive — crowds booed lines they didn’t like, but that was about it. [SEP] Tax resistance in the United States // the social security program expressed their opposition in terms of opposing government overreach into private lives and contracts, and opposition to socialism. "For those of us who still have confidence in our own ability," one wrote, "such a socialistic thing should not be forced upon us." About a dozen women from around Marshall, Texas organized in 1951 to refuse to submit Social Security taxes on behalf of their domestic help. "It's not the money, it's the principle," said spokesperson Carolyn M. Abney. "That law is unconstitutional." The "Texas Housewives" (as they were invariably called in the newspapers) lost a court
During the 2005 fight over Social Security, "there were noisy demonstrations — but they were outside the events," and opponents were "not disruptive — crowds booed lines they didn’t like, but that was about it. [SEP] Social Security debate in the United States // challenge" that, if not addressed timely, would "present future Congresses with impossible choices – staggering tax increases, immense deficits, or deep cuts in every category of spending". A liberal think tank, The Center for Economic and Policy Research, says that "Social Security is more financially sound today than it has been throughout most of its 69-year history" and that Bush's statement should have no credibility. In 2004 Nobel Laureate economist Paul Krugman, deriding what he called "the hype about a Social Security crisis", wrote: President Ronald Reagan stated in October 1984: "Social Security has nothing to do with the deficit...Social
During the 2005 fight over Social Security, "there were noisy demonstrations — but they were outside the events," and opponents were "not disruptive — crowds booed lines they didn’t like, but that was about it. [SEP] Social Security debate in the United States // from Dana C. Duggins, a vice president of the Social Security Council of the American Federation of Government Employees, that "Trust fund dollars should not be used to promote a political agenda." In the weeks following his State of the Union speech, Bush devoted considerable time and energy to campaigning for privatization. He held "town meetings" at many locations around the country. Attendance at these meetings was controlled to ensure that the crowds would be supportive of Bush's plan. In Denver, for example, three people who had obtained tickets through Representative Bob Beauprez, a Republican, were nevertheless ejected from the
During the 2005 fight over Social Security, "there were noisy demonstrations — but they were outside the events," and opponents were "not disruptive — crowds booed lines they didn’t like, but that was about it. [SEP] White noise (slang) // this usage is a politician including more information than needed to mask a point they don't want noticed. The term is used for music that is discordant with no melody, disagreeable, harsh or dissonant. On the January 11, 2005 broadcast of ABC's "Good Morning America", Claire Shipman claimed "the political rhetoric on Social Security is white noise" to most Americans. The novel "White Noise" (1985) by Don DeLillo explores several themes that emerged during the mid- to late twentieth century. The title is a metaphor that shows how the symptoms of postmodern culture came together to make it very difficult
Erdogan says Turkey will overcome coronavirus in two-three weeks; school closures extended. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic in Turkey // system. In the rare severe cases, around 3–5 days after symptoms manifest, the sufferer's condition declines quickly, often to the point respiratory failure. The virus reached Turkey in May 2009. A U.S. citizen, flying from the United States via Amsterdam was found to be suffering from the swine flu after arriving at Istanbul's Atatürk International Airport. Turkey is the 17th country in Europe and the 36th country in the world to report an incident of swine flu. The Turkish Government has taken measures at the international airports, using thermal imaging cameras to check passengers coming from international destinations. The first
Erdogan says Turkey will overcome coronavirus in two-three weeks; school closures extended. [SEP] 2016–present purges in Turkey // Turkish military, +1000 are from judiciary, about 650 are teachers and about 200 academics. Three newspapers, one TV channel and 12 associations were also shut down. On July 25, 2018, Turkey passed new anti-terrorism bill to replace emergency rule. According to the Human Rights Watch, the new law "will allow authorities under the presidency, for the next three years, to dismiss judges and all other public officials arbitrarily. It also would allow the authorities to restrict movement within Turkey, ban public assemblies, and allow police to hold some suspects for up to 12 days without charge and repeatedly detain them
Erdogan says Turkey will overcome coronavirus in two-three weeks; school closures extended. [SEP] 2016–present purges in Turkey // universities, numbering 1577, to resign. 626 educational institutions, mostly private, were shut down. For example, in Burdur, one school, one cram school and four student hostels were shut down on 20 July. In addition, a travel ban was placed on academics, preventing them from leaving the country. On 23 July 2016, Erdoğan shut down 1,043 private schools, 1,229 charities and foundations, 19 trade unions, 15 universities and 35 medical institutions in his first emergency decree under the newly adopted emergency legislation. The licenses of 24 radio and television channels and the press cards of 34 journalists accused of being linked
Erdogan says Turkey will overcome coronavirus in two-three weeks; school closures extended. [SEP] Turkey coronavirus // pathogens responsible for the Poult Enteritis and Mortality Syndrome (PEMS) in birds under the age of one month. Recovered birds are immune for life but may become carriers. Necropsy, histology, indirect immunofluorescence, immunoperoxidase staining, ELISA and PCR can all be used for diagnosis. Supportive therapy can be given, including heat lamps, antibiotics, and milk replacer. It is recommended that turkey farms be depopulated in the event of an outbreak. Turkey coronavirus Turkey coronaviruses are members of the family Coronaviridae that infect turkeys, especially poults, leading to gastrointestinal disease. Viruses include turkey enteritis virus and bluecomb disease virus. Transmission is horizontal
Erdogan says Turkey will overcome coronavirus in two-three weeks; school closures extended. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // have been at least 3800 quarantined. On 16 April 2014, Malaysia reported its first MERS-COV related death. The person was a 54-year-old man who had traveled to Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, together with pilgrimage group composed of 18 people, from 15–28 March 2014. He became ill by 4 April, and sought remedy at a clinic in Johor on 7 April. He was hospitalized by 9 April and died on 13 April. On May 11, 2014, two persons on Medan were suspected infected by MERS-Cov (Middle Eastern Respiratory Syndrome-Corona Virus). On 31 October 2013, the World Health Organization (WHO) confirmed that one
Erdogan says Turkey will overcome coronavirus in two-three weeks; school closures extended. [SEP] Vasip Şahin // official, Vasip Şahin ordered the closure of all the schools in Istanbul Province for February 18, 2015 due to heavy snow fall notifying this message on his Twitter page. He repeated this order for the next day as the harsh weather conditions continued. He became suddenly a beloved person of the pupils and students in the city, receiving thankful retweets. Vasip Şahin Vasip Şahin (born 1964) is a Turkish civil servant. Currently, he serves as the Governor of Istanbul Province. He was born in Bayburt in 1964. He completed his primary, secondary and high school education in Erzincan. In 1985,
Erdogan says Turkey will overcome coronavirus in two-three weeks; school closures extended. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // said virus. The Evangelista Medical Hospital in San Pedro, Laguna, the facility where the patient was first admitted, was temporarily closed by DOH for fourteen days. On 17 February 2015, all those who had exposure or had contact with the said nurse were tested negative of the said virus. On 6 March 2015, The Department of Foreign Affairs confirmed three Filipino female healthcare workers in Saudi Arabia who were infected with MERS-CoV. On 6 July 2015, DOH confirmed the second detected case of MERS-CoV in the country. The patient who had contracted the virus was from the Middle East and
Erdogan says Turkey will overcome coronavirus in two-three weeks; school closures extended. [SEP] Social distancing // transmission. Border restrictions and/or internal travel restrictions are unlikely to delay an epidemic by more than 2–3 weeks unless implemented with over 99% coverage. Airport screening was found to be ineffective in preventing viral transmission during the 2003 SARS outbreak in Canada and the US. Strict border controls between Austria and the Ottoman Empire, imposed from 1770 until 1871 to prevent persons infected with the bubonic plague from entering Austria, were reportedly effective, as there were no major outbreaks of plague in Austrian territory after they were established, whereas the Ottoman Empire continued to suffer frequent epidemics of plague until
Erdogan says Turkey will overcome coronavirus in two-three weeks; school closures extended. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // MERS had infected at least 60 people with cases reported in Jordan, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates (UAE), Tunisia, Germany, the United Kingdom (UK), France and Italy, with a death toll of 38. Saudi officials expressed great concern that millions of Muslims from around the world would potentially be exposed to the virus during the autumn Hajj, or pilgrimage to Mecca. In May 2014, the WHO said it was monitoring the situation as global cases of MERS appeared to be on the rise, but said the situation did not yet constitute a health emergency. On 3 June 2014,
Erdogan says Turkey will overcome coronavirus in two-three weeks; school closures extended. [SEP] Hakkari–Yüksekova Airport // hostage. They were released after threatening. 70 workers quit their job and left the town due to threat notes distributed in the district. Eleven people, who transported material to the construction site, were kidnapped. Already two months before the completion of the airport, the PKK threatened the construction workers saying "We won't be responsible for anything, which can happen." The attacks caused a delay of 250 days. The construction of the airport has started on 18 July 2010. It was opened to public/civil air traffic at 26 May 2015. During the inauguration ceremony attended by President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan and
A woman sought medical help to remove a deer tongue she had used for self-pleasuring purposes. [SEP] Tongue splitting // practice medicine. The law does not appear to prohibit performing the procedure on one's self. Since then New York, Delaware, and Texas have enacted laws that either ban the practice, ban the procedure on minors without parental consent, or restrict it to being performed by only doctors and/or dentists. In 2009, the Australian state of Victoria enacted a ban on splitting the tongues of minors. In 2017 Brendan McCarthy was prosecuted in the United Kingdom for a number of body modifications including tongue splitting. The charge was causing grievous bodily harm with intent, with an alternative charge of wounding without
A woman sought medical help to remove a deer tongue she had used for self-pleasuring purposes. [SEP] Tongue splitting // it appears as though there is only a deep crevice in the center of the tongue. Many cite increased sensation, enhancement when kissing for the giver and receiver or novelty, but the reasons can be deeper as well. Challenging oneself, rites of passage, connecting with or being in control of one's body, making a spiritual connection or testing the body's limits are also reasons given. Like all body modifications, it can be used to connect or identify with a specific group or to ward off those who would make quick undesired judgments based on appearance. Dustin Allor, a 19-year-old body
A woman sought medical help to remove a deer tongue she had used for self-pleasuring purposes. [SEP] Tongue splitting // piercer in the U.S., split her tongue in 1996 herself. Not having any reference of this being done before, she came up with the tie-off or fishing line method. In 1997 she was featured on the cover of Fakir Musafar's Body Play Magazine. Dustin's documented success with this process inspired coworker Natalie Lowry to follow suit in 2001. Erik Sprague, aka "The Lizardman" had his tongue split on July 18, 1997, by oral surgeon Dr. Lawrence Busino, using an argon laser. A new deeper split was done on October 3, 1997. This was the third modern tongue bifurcation and the
A woman sought medical help to remove a deer tongue she had used for self-pleasuring purposes. [SEP] Bessie Dunlop of Lynn // ""scored abune the breath"", that is being slashed with a knife above the mouth as a form of torture used on witches and that other tortures may have been used. She does not seem to have benefited financially from the help that she gave people although gifts of food are noted such as ""a peck of meal and some cheese"". Bessie had various clients from the aristocracy and merchant class, none of whom came to her assistance at her trial. The Laird of Stanely's wife, daughter of Lady Johnstone sought Bessie’s assistance when her daughter became ill and Bessie prepared
A woman sought medical help to remove a deer tongue she had used for self-pleasuring purposes. [SEP] Tongue cleaner // lingual tonsils (tongue tonsils). There has been one reported case where a woman possibly had infective endocarditis from bacteremia following the use of a tongue cleaner. Individuals with previous infective endocarditis and high-risk cardiac valves may be at a higher risk from bacteremia. Ayurveda, the practice of traditional Indian medicine, recommends tongue cleaning as part of one's daily hygiene regimen, to remove the toxic debris, known as Ama. Tongue cleaning has existed in Ayurvedic practice since ancient times, using tongue scrapers made from copper, silver, gold, tin or brass. In modern time, plastic scrapers are used in India and the
A woman sought medical help to remove a deer tongue she had used for self-pleasuring purposes. [SEP] Cunnilingus // the clitoris, or the female may separate the labia for her partner. Separating the legs wide would also usually open the vulva sufficiently for the partner to orally reach the clitoris. Some sex manuals recommend beginning with a gentler, less focused stimulation of the labia and the whole genital area. The tip, blade, or underside of the tongue may be used, and so might the nose, chin, teeth and lips. Movements can be slow or fast, regular or erratic, firm or soft, according to the participants' preferences. The tongue can be inserted into the vagina, either stiffened or moving. The
A woman sought medical help to remove a deer tongue she had used for self-pleasuring purposes. [SEP] Black hairy tongue // mouthwashes. Generally direct measures to return the tongue to its normal appearance involve improving oral hygiene, especially scraping or brushing the tongue before sleep. This promotes desquamation of the hyperparakeratotic papillae. Keratolytic agents (chemicals to remove keratin) such as podophyllin are successful, but carry safety concerns. Other reported successful measures include sodium bicarbonate mouthrinses, eating pineapple, sucking on a peach stone and chewing gum. BHT is a benign condition, but people who are affected may be distressed at the appearance and possible halitosis, and therefore treatment is indicated. Hairy tongue occurs in about 0.5% of adults. However, the prevalence is
A woman sought medical help to remove a deer tongue she had used for self-pleasuring purposes. [SEP] Walter Whitehead // The second procedure, which was a form of glossectomy and earned him international repute, is also not much used today. It concerned removal of carcinoma from the mobile tongue and was described by him in an 1891 paper titled "A Hundred Cases Of Entire Excision Of The Tongue". There is a story that this latter procedure was devised when he was irritable due to a hangover and declined the choice of surgical instruments offered to him with the words "for God's sake give me a pair of scissors". Twenty of the patients described in the 1891 paper died post-operatively; he
A woman sought medical help to remove a deer tongue she had used for self-pleasuring purposes. [SEP] Dysgeusia // a second occasion, her dysgeusia returned. In a second case, a fifty-nine-year-old man was prescribed amlodipine in order to treat his hypertension. After eight years of taking the drug, he developed a loss of taste sensation and numbness in his tongue. When he ran out of his medication, he decided not to obtain a refill and stopped taking amlodipine. Following this self-removal, he reported experiencing a return of his taste sensation. Once he refilled his prescription and began taking amlodipine a second time, his taste disturbance reoccurred. These two cases suggest that there is an association between these drugs and
A woman sought medical help to remove a deer tongue she had used for self-pleasuring purposes. [SEP] Tongue // cardiovascular system, bypassing the gastrointestinal tract. This is the only convenient and efficacious route of administration (apart from Intravenous therapy) of nitroglycerin to a patient suffering chest pain from angina pectoris. The tongue evolved with the amphibians from the same structures that form fins in fish. Most amphibians show a proper tongue after their metamorphosis. As a consequence most vertebrate animals - amphibians, reptiles, birds and mammals - have tongues. In mammals such as dogs and cats, the tongue is often used to clean the fur and body by licking. The tongues of these species have a very rough texture
Trump backs Fla. plan to import lower-cost meds from abroad. [SEP] First 100 days of Donald Trump's presidency // a product where there's not even a safety problem. So it's crazy. I'm surprised you can't get them to move faster than that." Trump had promised in March 2016, to reform the pharmaceutical industry, including the removal of existing free market barriers to allow imported, dependable, safe, reliable, and cheaper drugs from overseas, bringing more options to American consumers. Following Trump's press conference on January 11, "Fortune" claimed that the largest pharmaceutical companies had lost over $20 billion in 20 minutes. The Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act (2003) expressly prohibited Medicare from negotiating bulk prescription drug prices and
Trump backs Fla. plan to import lower-cost meds from abroad. [SEP] Presidency of Donald Trump // throughout his presidency, Trump said he would cut the costs of pharmaceuticals. During his first seven months in office, there were 96 price hikes for every drug price cut. In May 2018, Trump announced that he would not allow Medicare to use its bargaining power to negotiate lower drug prices from pharmaceutical companies, abandoning a promise he made as candidate. Shortly after the 2018 mid-term elections, the large pharmaceutical company Pfizer announced a price increase for dozens of drugs, after it had reportedly bowed to pressure not to do so earlier by the Trump administration. In September 2017, Trump nominated
Trump backs Fla. plan to import lower-cost meds from abroad. [SEP] Health care reforms proposed during the Obama administration // room and coming to an agreement, with the government stepping in to set prices if they fail. Congressional proponents argue that drugs manufactured overseas by U.S. companies could be imported and purchased more cheaply in the U.S. Drug manufacturers argue that certain foreign countries have price controls, which they recoup by charging higher prices in the U.S. Whitehouse spokesman Robert Gibbs said President Obama is supportive of importing drugs, provided safety concerns related to the drugs can be addressed. This is because drugs manufactured outside the country may be held to different standards. According to Bloomberg News, drugmakers agreed in
Trump backs Fla. plan to import lower-cost meds from abroad. [SEP] First 100 days of Donald Trump's presidency // U.S. Steel's Mario Longhi, SpaceX's Elon Musk, International Paper's Mark Sutton, and Corning's Wendell Weeks promised to reward the companies who stay in the United States with aggressive cuts on U.S. federal regulations governing their companies by "75 percent or more." On January 31, Trump met with CEOs of pharmaceutical firms, including Novartis's Joseph Jimenez who also represented the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America—the pharmaceutical industry's powerful lobbying group, Merck & Co.'s Kenneth Frazier, Johnson & Johnson, Celgene's Robert Hugin, Eli Lilly, Amgen's Robert Bradway. Trump called for lower prices, "We have no choice. For Medicare, for Medicaid. We
Trump backs Fla. plan to import lower-cost meds from abroad. [SEP] Economic policy of Donald Trump // and "nonsense figure" because it was four times the entire cost of the Medicare prescription-drug system. Trump abandoned the plan in May 2018, as well as his campaign promise to allow Americans to import cheaper pharmaceuticals from foreign countries. Unlike his rivals in the 2016 Republican primary race, Trump opposes cuts in Social Security and Medicare benefits. This is a departure from Trump's earlier views; in his book published in 2000, Trump called Social Security a "Ponzi scheme" and said it should be privatized. Trump previously proposed raising the Social Security retirement age to 70 from 67, but he backed
Trump backs Fla. plan to import lower-cost meds from abroad. [SEP] First 100 days of Donald Trump's presidency // have to get the prices way down." In return, he promised to boost the pharmaceutical companies competitiveness by curbing regulations "from 9,000 pages" to "100 pages," and by lowering pharmaceutical companies' tax rates. Trump noted that Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approvals "force pharmaceutical companies to spend years and billions of dollars developing drugs." He promised his nomination for FDA Commissioner would oversee an FDA overhaul. In the listening session with pharmaceutical industry leaders, Trump noted that, "it costs sometimes $2.5 billion on average, actually, to come up with a new product. ...15 years, $2.5 billion to come up with
Trump backs Fla. plan to import lower-cost meds from abroad. [SEP] Economic policy of Donald Trump // measures that would reduce the value of the existing debt, making it cheaper to repurchase, would increase the cost of issuing new debt. Such a threat also could undermine the stability of global financial markets." Trump has called for allowing Medicare to negotiate directly with prescription-drug companies to get lower prices for the Medicare Part D prescription-drug benefit, something currently prohibited by law. Trump has claimed on several occasions that this proposal would save $300 billion a year. Glenn Kessler, the fact-checker for the "Washington Post", gave this statement a "four Pinocchios" rating, writing that this was a "truly absurd"
Trump backs Fla. plan to import lower-cost meds from abroad. [SEP] Online pharmacy // President Obama’s budget supports a plan to allow people to buy cheaper drugs from other countries. A 2016 study suggested that providing health insurance coverage may significantly reduce personal prescription drug importation and the subsequent risk of exposure to counterfeit, adulterated, and substandard medications. Further, health insurance coverage is likely to be particularly effective at reducing importation among persons who were Hispanic; born in Latin America, Russia, or Europe; and traveled to developing countries. A report in the journal Clinical Therapeutics found that U.S. consumers face a risk of getting counterfeit drugs because of the rising Internet sales of drugs,
Trump backs Fla. plan to import lower-cost meds from abroad. [SEP] Political positions of Donald Trump // drug market. In the same document, Trump acknowledged that mental health care in the U.S. is often inadequate but offered no immediate solution to the problem, instead stating that "there are promising reforms being developed in Congress." Trump also emphasized the removal of market entry barriers for drug providers and improved access to imported medication corresponding to safety standards. Explaining how he would address the problem of ensuring the people that would lose their insurance coverage if Obamacare were repealed, Trump said, "We have to come up, and we can come up with many different plans. In fact, plans you
Trump backs Fla. plan to import lower-cost meds from abroad. [SEP] Novartis // information the pharmaceutical company needed. Later, it became clear, however, that then-CEO Joseph Jimenez and Cohen communicated via email multiple times during 2017, which included ideas to lower drug prices to be discussed with the president. According to the report, several of the ideas appeared later in Trump's drug pricing plan, released in early 2018, in which pharmaceutical companies were protected from reduced revenues. Novartis Novartis International AG is a Swiss multinational pharmaceutical company based in Basel, Switzerland. It is one of the largest pharmaceutical companies by both market capitalization and sales. Novartis manufactures the drugs clozapine (Clozaril), diclofenac (Voltaren),
Debbie Wasserman Schultz Says Gov. Rick Scott "cut nearly $1 million from mosquito control and closed down the state’s mosquito research lab a few years ago. [SEP] Notre Dame College of Science // lakes and used for environmental research. Prof. George B. Craig Jr. becomes the director of the Vector Biology Laboratory in 1957 and, for the next two decades, performs important research into the genetics of Aedes aegypti. The New York Times called Craig "one of the world's foremost experts on mosquitoes". and the National Academies Press called him "an internationally recognized expert on the biology and control of mosquitoes" and that his "contributions made ... to medical entomology are almost incalculable". The Jordan Hall of Science opens in 2006, after an investment of more than $70 million donated by Chicago business
Debbie Wasserman Schultz Says Gov. Rick Scott "cut nearly $1 million from mosquito control and closed down the state’s mosquito research lab a few years ago. [SEP] Zika Authorization Plan Act of 2016 // Congress called the Zika Response and Preparedness Appropriations Act of 2016. This bill would have amended the Public Health Service Act to reauthorize grants for state mosquito control programs through FY2020. The bill would authorize $200 million per year for each fiscal year 2016 through 2020 for grants for state mosquito programs. Specifically, the bill amended Subsection (f) of section 317S of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 247b–21(f)) as follows: "(f) Authorization Of Appropriations.—To carry out this section, there is authorized to be appropriated $200,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2016 through 2020". The bill was introduced in
Debbie Wasserman Schultz Says Gov. Rick Scott "cut nearly $1 million from mosquito control and closed down the state’s mosquito research lab a few years ago. [SEP] Climate change in Washington // drier summers (chance of drought, particularly east of the Cascades). The mosquitoes will also survive longer because the warmer winters will not eliminate as many bugs as it usually does. Documentation of the West Nile Virus is just beginning in Washington State, but Colorado has been grappling with cases of it since 2002. Total costs there have been estimated at $120 million or $670 million (P. 58), both . Louisiana has been battling cases since 2001, with total costs of $190 million by 2006. In the hopes of avoiding these costs, the Washington Department of Health spends $246,000 per year
Debbie Wasserman Schultz Says Gov. Rick Scott "cut nearly $1 million from mosquito control and closed down the state’s mosquito research lab a few years ago. [SEP] Sylvia Mathews Burwell // Development Authority splitting $152million for the domestic effort. In response to Congressional complaints that the money was not being spent fast enough, Burwell informed Congress that without further funding the CDC's funding to fight Zika would be depleted by September 30, 2016. After Burwell moved funding from other HHS programs, Congress finally appropriated $1.1billion to fight the spread of Zika in the United States. By the end of September 2016, the United States reported 23,000 cases in the territory of Puerto Rico, 3,000 cases in the states, and 21babies born in the United States with microcephaly testing positive for Zika.
Debbie Wasserman Schultz Says Gov. Rick Scott "cut nearly $1 million from mosquito control and closed down the state’s mosquito research lab a few years ago. [SEP] Greater Los Angeles County Vector Control District // saw a sharp reduction in the number of positives in the mosquito and avian population. Unfortunately, in 2007, California experienced a resurgence of West Nile virus activity. Within the District, 32 human cases were reported leading to 3 fatalities. These fatalities were the first in the District since 2004. In August, Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger declared a state of emergency for the three counties in Central California hardest hit by the virus. The Governor made approximately $10 million in emergency WNV funds available to mosquito control agencies throughout the State. GLACVCD increased control, surveillance, and public education efforts with grants received
Debbie Wasserman Schultz Says Gov. Rick Scott "cut nearly $1 million from mosquito control and closed down the state’s mosquito research lab a few years ago. [SEP] Scotts Miracle-Gro Company // of the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide and Rodenticide Act (FIFRA). In a separate agreement with the Environmental Protection Agency, Scotts agreed to pay more than $6 million in penalties and spend $2 million on environmental projects. According to the Justice Department, both the criminal and civil settlements are the largest under FIFRA to date. Scotts has developed several genetically modified grasses, including herbicide-tolerant Kentucky bluegrass and creeping bentgrass. In 2007, the U.S. Department of Agriculture fined Scotts Miracle-Gro $500,000 when modified DNA from GM creeping bentgrass, was found within relatives of the same genus ("Agrostis") as well as in native grasses
Debbie Wasserman Schultz Says Gov. Rick Scott "cut nearly $1 million from mosquito control and closed down the state’s mosquito research lab a few years ago. [SEP] Scott Carroll (biologist) // insect repellent development, testing and registration, providing US EPA compliant efficacy evaluations of both conventional and biological insect repellents. Amanda Mascarelli of the LA Times has written several articles on insect repellents with the help of Carroll-Loye. In July 2014 Carroll appeared on Good Morning America assisting reporter Becky Worley with a mosquito box in a story comparing DEET based sprays with Picaridin. In conservation biology Carroll cautions against over-zealous "native species bias" which he believes may sometimes result in environmentally unwise, expensive and ultimately unsuccessful non-native-species eradication attempts, appearing as one of 19 authors (led by Mark Davis) of
Debbie Wasserman Schultz Says Gov. Rick Scott "cut nearly $1 million from mosquito control and closed down the state’s mosquito research lab a few years ago. [SEP] Rick Scott // Hialeah, Florida, Scott did not indicate whether or not he believes global warming is a problem or whether Florida's Department of Environmental Protection has made or is making preparations for its potential consequences. In March 2015, accusations were made that his administration had instructed Department of Environmental Protection officials to avoid the terms "climate change" or "global warming" in any official communications. Scott denied the claims that his administration had banned the terms. Scott cut $700 million from Florida's water management districts over his tenure as Governor. The cuts stirred controversy in 2018 when Florida faced a water contamination crisis.
Debbie Wasserman Schultz Says Gov. Rick Scott "cut nearly $1 million from mosquito control and closed down the state’s mosquito research lab a few years ago. [SEP] Genetically modified organism // Florida Keys Mosquito Control District has achieved only 30–60% population reduction with traps and pesticide spraying. In 2016 FDA approved a genetically modified mosquito intervention for Key West, Florida. UK firm Oxitec proposed the release of millions of modified male (non-biting) mosquitoes to compete with wild males for mates. The males are engineered so that their offspring die before maturing, helping to eradicate mosquito-borne disease. Final approval was to be based on a local referendum to be held in November. Andrea Crisanti, a molecular biologist at Imperial College in London is working on ways to stop the A. gambiae mosquito
Debbie Wasserman Schultz Says Gov. Rick Scott "cut nearly $1 million from mosquito control and closed down the state’s mosquito research lab a few years ago. [SEP] Chris Stewart (politician) // weaponry carried by federal agents, he also sponsored a bill (H.R. 4934) to demilitarize federal regulatory agencies. In 2016, Stewart introduced a bill to allow unused Ebolavirus funding to research and combat the Zika virus. The proposal was adopted as part of a separate bill the next year, Zika Response Appropriations Act, a bill to shift $622 million in unused Ebola funding to fight the Zika virus. Chris Stewart (politician) Christopher Douglas Stewart (born July 15, 1960) is an American author, businessman, and politician known for his bestsellers "Seven Miracles That Saved America" and "The Miracle of Freedom: Seven Tipping
Kirk Watson Says carbon monoxide is still employed to euthanize dogs and cats in 29 Texas animal shelters. [SEP] Animal euthanasia // issued new guidelines for carbon dioxide induction, stating that a flow rate of 10% to 30% volume/min is optimal for the humane euthanization of small rodents. Carbon monoxide is often used, but some states in the US have banned its use in animal shelters: although carbon monoxide poisoning is not particularly painful, the conditions in the gas chamber are often not humane. Nitrogen has been shown to be effective, although some young animals are rather resistant and it currently is not widely used. Cervical dislocation, or displacement (breaking or fracturing) of the neck, is an older yet less common method
Kirk Watson Says carbon monoxide is still employed to euthanize dogs and cats in 29 Texas animal shelters. [SEP] Animal euthanasia // Gas anesthetics such as isoflurane and sevoflurane can be used for euthanasia of very small animals. The animals are placed in sealed chambers where high levels of anesthetic gas are introduced. Death may also be caused using carbon dioxide once unconsciousness has been achieved by inhaled anaesthetic. Carbon dioxide is often used on its own for euthanasia of wild animals. There are mixed opinions on whether it causes distress when used on its own, with human experiments lending support to the evidence that it can cause distress and equivocal results in non-humans. In 2013, the American Veterinary Medical Association (AVMA)
Kirk Watson Says carbon monoxide is still employed to euthanize dogs and cats in 29 Texas animal shelters. [SEP] John Scott Haldane // of his research, he was able to design respirators for rescue workers. He tested the effect of carbon monoxide on his own body in a closed chamber, describing the results of his slow poisoning. In the late 1890s, he introduced the use of small animals for miners to detect dangerous levels of carbon monoxide underground, either white mice or canaries. With a faster metabolism, they showed the effects of poisoning before gas levels became critical for the workers, and so gave an early warning of the problem. The canary in British pits was replaced in 1986 by the electronic gas
Kirk Watson Says carbon monoxide is still employed to euthanize dogs and cats in 29 Texas animal shelters. [SEP] No-kill shelter // to reduce euthanasia. In 2009, the Newfoundland and Labrador, Canada provincial government and the town of Stephenville began negotiations to close their no-kill animal shelter, claiming that upwards of 100 dogs and cats with diseases or behavioral problems were suffering severe neglect. Media quoted the town's mayor as stating that animals cannot be humanely stored indefinitely. The animals in the shelter will be evaluated by veterinarians but will most likely be euthanized. A no-kill policy led to a dispute between the Toronto Humane Society and the Ontario Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in 2009, with the OSPCA
Kirk Watson Says carbon monoxide is still employed to euthanize dogs and cats in 29 Texas animal shelters. [SEP] People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals // 1990, Georgia's Humane Euthanasia Act became one of the first laws in the nation to mandate intravenous injection of sodium pentobarbital as the prescribed method for euthanizing cats and dogs in Georgia animal shelters. Prior to that time, gas chambers and other means were commonly employed. Georgia Agriculture Commissioner Tommy Irvin was tasked with licensing the shelters and enforcing the new law, through the department's Animal Protection Division. However, Commissioner Irvin failed to abide by the terms of the law, and instead continued to license gas chambers. PETA contacted the author of the original legislation, and in March 2007, the
Kirk Watson Says carbon monoxide is still employed to euthanize dogs and cats in 29 Texas animal shelters. [SEP] Lovelace Respiratory Research Institute // to 646, the number of dogs from 293 to 183 within a short period per USDA animal inventory reports. As of 2014, Lovelace still used 431 primates and outnumbered all US institutions performing primate experiments like Battelle Memorial Institute (270) or USAMRIID (249). In January 2018, the NYT reported that in 2014, the LRRI studied the health effect of up to 4 hours of diesel exhaust exposure on 10 monkeys. An organization called the "European Research Group on Environment and Health in the Transport Sector" (EUGT) paid for the research, and was jointly funded by Volkswagen, Daimler and BMW. The
Kirk Watson Says carbon monoxide is still employed to euthanize dogs and cats in 29 Texas animal shelters. [SEP] Blacksburg Volunteer Rescue Squad // forensic examiners completed scene examination and documentation, BVRS transported or coordinated the transport of 32 victims to the Medial Examiner’s Officer in Roanoke. On Sunday, August 19, 2007, a total of 23 students were overcome by carbon monoxide in a Blacksburg apartment complex and were taken the hospital. Five of these patients were airlifted to UVA Medical Center or Duke University Medical Center for serious complications from the carbon monoxide poisoning. December 31, 2010, three people were injured when an explosion tore open a section of the Federal-Mogul building in Blacksburg. The explosion occurred around 9:30 a.m. The first emergency
Kirk Watson Says carbon monoxide is still employed to euthanize dogs and cats in 29 Texas animal shelters. [SEP] Carbon monoxide // medical care for non-fatal carbon monoxide poisoning" These products include malfunctioning fuel-burning appliances such as furnaces, ranges, water heaters, and gas and kerosene room heaters; engine-powered equipment such as portable generators; fireplaces; and charcoal that is burned in homes and other enclosed areas. The American Association of Poison Control Centers (AAPCC) reported 15,769 cases of carbon monoxide poisoning resulting in 39 deaths in 2007. In 2005, the CPSC reported 94 generator-related carbon monoxide poisoning deaths. Forty-seven of these deaths were known to have occurred during power outages due to severe weather, including Hurricane Katrina. Still others die from carbon monoxide
Kirk Watson Says carbon monoxide is still employed to euthanize dogs and cats in 29 Texas animal shelters. [SEP] People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals // Georgia Department of Agriculture and Commissioner Irvin were sued by former State Representative Chesley V. Morton. The Fulton County Superior Court ruled in favor of the plaintiffs, validating the terms of the Humane Euthanasia Act, with an injunction prohibiting the department from issuing licenses to shelters using gas chambers in violation of the act. When the department continued to license a gas chamber in Cobb County, a second court action was brought, which resulted in the department being held in contempt. Two PETA employees were acquitted in 2007 of cruelty to animals after at least 80 euthanized animals were left
Kirk Watson Says carbon monoxide is still employed to euthanize dogs and cats in 29 Texas animal shelters. [SEP] Philip Nitschke // product called the "exit bag" (a large plastic bag with a drawstring allowing it to be secured around the neck) and the "CoGen" (or "Co-Genie") device. The CoGen device generates the deadly gas carbon monoxide, which is inhaled with a face mask. In December 2008 Nitschke released details of a euthanasia machine to the media. He called it "flawless" and "undetectable", saying the new process uses ordinary household products including a barbecue gas bottle — available from hardware stores — filled with nitrogen. Nitschke developed a process in which patients lose consciousness immediately and die a few minutes later. Nitschke
Airlines rush to boost demand as coronavirus shreds playbook for crisis management. [SEP] Doomsday Virus // his seat and falls into cardiac arrest, and Brenda gives him CPR. Head flight attendant Barb Rollins (Jennifer Savidge) notifies Holland of the emergency, and the Captain and his check pilot, Daniel Robb (Richard Lawson) set a course for London's Heathrow Airport. However they are turned away when British Air-Traffic Control informs them that one of the passengers (Helms) could be infected with a deadly strain of influenza. Several harrowing events follow. The U.S. President (Edward Herrmann) unsuccessfully tries to sneak Flight 66 into RAF Mildenhall, disguised as a United States Air Force fighter plane and guided in by another,
Airlines rush to boost demand as coronavirus shreds playbook for crisis management. [SEP] Management of acute coronary syndrome // glyceryl trinitrate spray, aspirin, or opioid painkillers), an AED, and oxygen. Pilots may divert the flight to land at a nearby airport. Cardiac monitors are being introduced by some airlines, and they can be used by both on-board and ground-based physicians. Management of acute coronary syndrome Management of acute coronary syndrome is targeted against the effects of reduced blood flow to the afflicted area of the heart muscle, usually because of a blood clot in one of the coronary arteries, the vessels that supply oxygenated blood to the myocardium. This is achieved with urgent hospitalization and medical therapy, including drugs
Airlines rush to boost demand as coronavirus shreds playbook for crisis management. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // decided to perform a test on him, and fortunately, as well for the comfort of everybody, the findings of our Research Institute for Tropical Medicine, he tested negative." In the said press release, DOH also announced that they are tracking all other 414 passengers of Etihad Airways Flight 424 (the flight the OFW took from Abu Dhabi, UAE to Manila) in order to be tested. On 11 February 2015, a 32-year-old Filipino nurse from Saudi Arabia, who was also 1 month pregnant, was the country's first MERS-CoV case, DOH confirmed after the test turned out to be positive of the
Airlines rush to boost demand as coronavirus shreds playbook for crisis management. [SEP] Doomsday Virus // despite a recommendation otherwise by Ambassador Lee Lancaster (Robert Guillaume), but the British forces at the base jam the runway with emergency vehicles. Holland threatens to land anyway, only to pull up at the last minute, showing the U.S. Government how desperate the situation is. Soon thereafter, an investigation is set in motion by the Central Intelligence Agency. Flight 66 lands at the U.S. air base in Iceland, but one passenger is so distraught at being separated from her child and at being in quarantine that she runs down the airplane stairs and is shot and killed by U.S. troops
Airlines rush to boost demand as coronavirus shreds playbook for crisis management. [SEP] Coronaviridae // fact multidomain proteins themselves, thus further increasing the complexity of protein functions and interactions. Structural studies suggest that several nsps, following their release from larger precursor molecules, form dimers or even multimers. The various pp1a/pp1ab precursors and processing products are thought to assemble into large, membrane-associated complexes that, in a temporally coordinated manner, catalyze the reactions involved in RNA replication and transcription and, it is presumed, serve yet other functions in the viral life cycle. Coronaviruses also exhibit ribosomal frameshifting and polymerase stuttering as part of their complex replicative cycle. In common with the genomes of all other RNA viruses,
Airlines rush to boost demand as coronavirus shreds playbook for crisis management. [SEP] SARS coronavirus // been confirmed by other independent groups. The SARS coronavirus is one of several viruses identified by WHO as a likely cause of a future epidemic in a new plan developed after the Ebola epidemic for urgent research and development before and during an epidemic toward new diagnostic tests, vaccines and medicines. SARS, or Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, is the disease caused by SARS coronavirus. It causes an often severe illness marked initially by systemic symptoms of muscle pain, headache, and fever, followed in 2–14 days by the onset of respiratory symptoms, mainly cough, dyspnea, and pneumonia. Another common finding in
Airlines rush to boost demand as coronavirus shreds playbook for crisis management. [SEP] Germanwings Flight 9525 // cope with these. It said priority should be given to psychological help for relatives and friends of victims in the aftermath of a disaster. Lufthansa CEO Carsten Spohr proposed random checks of pilots' psychological fitness and a loosening of the extant physician–patient confidentiality laws. Politicians began echoing the call for a loosening of the laws in exceptional cases. The National Gendarmerie, a national police force in France that prides itself on toughness and resilience, introduced a new set of support mechanisms to minimize the psychosocial risks to relief workers who deal with events such as Flight 9525 in their daily
Airlines rush to boost demand as coronavirus shreds playbook for crisis management. [SEP] Cabin Pressure (film) // for its course. Six months earlier, a similar test flight had turned into tragedy when the aircraft controls became locked. Corbett Airline engineer Gabriel Wingfield (John Pyper-Ferguson) is blamed for the disaster and company president Ty Corbett (Winston Rekert) fires him. Wingfield vows revenge. When he finds that besides pilot Reece Robbins, Corbett is the VIP aboard the first flight, from somewhere in the United States, Wingfield hacks into the flight's computer system from his apartment. The test flight suddenly deviates from its determined route and the airliner begins flying a circular pattern over Seattle. It becomes evident to the
Airlines rush to boost demand as coronavirus shreds playbook for crisis management. [SEP] Airline Disaster // as good as they can get in the B-Movie realm" Airline Disaster Airline Disaster is a disaster film by The Asylum directed by John J. Willis III and starring Meredith Baxter, Scott Valentine, Lindsey McKeon and Jay Beyers. The made-for-television film was broadcast in 2010 and released to home media in 2011. On a maiden flight with Coastal Airlines, the Starquest airliner program introduces the most sophisticated and enjoyable flying experience to date, with pilot Joseph Franklin (Scott Valentine) in charge. Special Agent Gina Vitale (Lindsey McKeon) is on the flight to protect Franklin, who is also the President's brother.
Airlines rush to boost demand as coronavirus shreds playbook for crisis management. [SEP] Middle East respiratory syndrome // pneumonia and acute renal failure. After routine diagnostics failed to identify the causative agent, Zaki contacted Ron Fouchier, a leading virologist at the Erasmus Medical Center (EMC) in Rotterdam, the Netherlands, for advice. Fouchier sequenced the virus from a sample sent by Zaki. Fouchier used a broad-spectrum "pan-coronavirus" real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) method to test for distinguishing features of a number of known coronaviruses (such as OC43, 229R, NL63, and SARS-CoV), as well as for RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp), a gene conserved in all coronaviruses known to infect humans. While the screens for known coronaviruses were all negative, the
'What choice do I have?' Lock-down strands millions in China's Wuhan. [SEP] Green Dam Youth Escort // also required online forums to block and remove "offensive speech evolved from the topic" promptly. In response to the "public concern, anger and protest" triggered by the government edict, "China Daily" put forward the case for free choice, saying: "Respect for an individual's right to choice is an important indicator of a free society, depriving them of which is gross transgression." On 15 June, an official of the Department of Software Service under the MIIT downplayed the compulsory aspect of the software: "The PC makers only need to save the setup files of the program on the hard drives of
'What choice do I have?' Lock-down strands millions in China's Wuhan. [SEP] Human rights in China // and others estimate that at least 250 million births have been prevented by the policy. The policy was generally not enforced in rural areas of the country even before this amendment. It has also been relaxed in urban areas, allowing people to have two children. Chinese state-run media reported on 3 June 2013 that the city of Wuhan is considering legislation to fine women who have children out of wedlock, or with men married to other women. The fine is considered a 'social compensation fee', and has been sharply criticized for potentially exacerbating the problem of abandoned children. Now, all
'What choice do I have?' Lock-down strands millions in China's Wuhan. [SEP] Xie Fuzhi // Wuhan Military Region Commander General Chen Zaidao backed the more conservative Million Heroes Red Guard faction against its militant opponents, the Wuhan Workers’ General Headquarters (WWGH). Premier Zhou Enlai ordered General Chen to back down, and support the WWGH, but he refused to do so. Xie and Wang Li were sent to Wuhan to persuade General Chen to obey orders. On July 20, PLA forces detained, slapped and humiliated Xie and allowed Wang to be held by the Million Heroes faction. Premier Zhou flew to Wuhan but was prevented from landing by a show of military force at the airport.
'What choice do I have?' Lock-down strands millions in China's Wuhan. [SEP] Holdout (real estate) // widespread attention in the Chinese press. In one case in 2007, one family among 280 others at the location of a six-story shopping mall under construction at the location of a former "snack street" in Chongqing refused for two years to vacate a home their family had inhabited for three generations. Developers cut their power and water, and excavated a 10-meter deep pit around their home. The owners broke into the construction site, reoccupied it, and flew a Chinese flag on top. Yang Wu, a local martial arts champion, used nunchakus to make a staircase to their house, and threatened
'What choice do I have?' Lock-down strands millions in China's Wuhan. [SEP] Ju Ming // The scenario shows that people are in fact self-imposed to be locked. Though life are more complicated and interconnected and cannot be simply defined to binary choices; the artist just tries to point out that lock or unlock, freedom or limit, good or evil are actually done by human's own choices. The Chinese character (囚), stands for imprison, is compound with the character for human (人) in the middle of a cube surrounded by four walls (囗). Ju Ming used the literal and external form of a cage to represent the inner spiritual dimension of the idea of restraint of
'What choice do I have?' Lock-down strands millions in China's Wuhan. [SEP] Tie Ning // left her a widow and prevented her from returning to the city after the policy of sending educated youths to rural China ended. In her story about the female protagonist's choice between the two, which entails the significant and ideologically loaded choice between the city and the countryside, Tie Ning reveals the complicity of the masculine model in the party's and state's dominant ideology, despite its apparent opposition to it. In its place, she offers the protagonist's feminine view, that one should determine one's life-course based on one's own needs, desires, and abilities, rather than with reference to either opposition
'What choice do I have?' Lock-down strands millions in China's Wuhan. [SEP] Cultural Revolution Group // The 400,000 strong WWGH was besieged by the "Million Heroes", who were being supplied with weapons and manpower by the local PLA commander Chen Zaidao. When Chen ignored Zhou Enlai's orders that the siege was to be lifted, Wang Li and Xie Fuzhi were dispatched to Wuhan to resolve the crisis. On 19 July the pair instructed the PLA to switch its support from the "Million Heroes" to the WWGH. In the early hours of the next day however, Xie Fuzhi was arrested by the PLA while Wang Li was kidnapped by the "Million Heroes" and beaten. After a failed
'What choice do I have?' Lock-down strands millions in China's Wuhan. [SEP] 1989 Tiananmen Square protests // the railway station. About one thousand students staged a railroad 'sit-in'. Rail traffic on the Beijing-Guangzhou and Wuhan-Dalian lines was interrupted. The students also urged employees of major state-owned enterprises to go on strike. In Wuhan the situation was so tense that residents reportedly began a bank run and resorted to panic-buying. Similar scenes unfolded in Nanjing. On 7 June, hundreds of students staged a blockade at the Nanjing Yangtze River Bridge as well as the Zhongyangmen Railway Bridge. They were persuaded to evacuate without incident later that day, though returned the next day to occupy the main railway station
'What choice do I have?' Lock-down strands millions in China's Wuhan. [SEP] Leung Chun-ying as Chief Executive of Hong Kong // down their sidewalks? So protesters can't grab the bricks and throw them?" Parts of the city were in lockdown by the 8,000 police officers who were eventually deployed, unprecedentedly in a counter-terrorist operation. Zhang was protected by heavily armed police officers and a 45-car cortège. Despite the high level of alert, western running dogs managed to put up massive banners in prominent locations to welcome Zhang – whilst some banners recalled the Umbrella revolution slogan "I want genuine universal suffrage", another, which read: "End Chinese Communist Party dictatorship", was hung up and visible to Zhang's motorcade from the airport. Zhang
'What choice do I have?' Lock-down strands millions in China's Wuhan. [SEP] 2015 China Victory Day Parade // make sure the skies over central Beijing were free of birds that would put the flypast at risk. The trained macaque monkeys climbed trees and dismantled birds nests in advance of the parade. Hot air balloons and hang gliders were equally barred from the city; those residing along Changan Avenue were forbidden from opening their windows during the lock-down period. Domestic satellite televisions were restricted from playing entertainment programs between September 1–5. China Central Television ceased the broadcasting of all entertainment programming, only playing films and TV series about the Second World War. Xi Jinping decreed the creation of two
A photo shows a weasel riding on the back of a woodpecker in flight. [SEP] Ivory-billed woodpecker // mounted on the tree. On the basis of the comparison, it is clear that the bird in the video is a large woodpecker, and the size appears to be consistent with an ivory-billed woodpecker. The 2007 video shows events involving a woodpecker delivering a blow that is accompanied by an audible double knock, unusual swooping flights that are consistent with historical accounts of the ivory-billed woodpecker, and a takeoff with deep and rapid flaps that are similar to the flaps of the closely related imperial woodpecker ("Campephilus imperialis") taking off. In economically struggling east Arkansas, the speculation of a possible
A photo shows a weasel riding on the back of a woodpecker in flight. [SEP] Cultural depictions of weasels // would choose to transform into a least weasel when he had to accomplish a task demanding bravery. In Brian Jacques' Redwall series of books, weasels are depicted as villainous, living in and leading vermin hordes. In 2015 a photograph of a least weasel 'riding' on a woodpecker's back went viral. As explained by wildlife experts, the weasel was attacking the woodpecker as prey. I.M. Weasel, a smart, successful weasel, was the title character of I Am Weasel, a series of 7 minute animated shorts for Cartoon Network that ran from 1997-2000. He was voiced by Michael Dorn. <nowiki></nowiki> Cultural depictions
A photo shows a weasel riding on the back of a woodpecker in flight. [SEP] White-fronted woodpecker // back. A black mask surrounds the eye and extends to the mantle. The upper side of the wings is bluish-black, boldly barred with white, and the underside is browner. The upper side of the tail is black with white markings and the underside is browner. The fore-crown and cheeks are white, and the chin and throat are white, yellow or buff. The breast and belly are some shade of grey, with indistinct barring on the flanks and lower belly. The iris is reddish-brown, the beak greyish-black and the legs grey. Juveniles are similar to the adults but are generally a
A photo shows a weasel riding on the back of a woodpecker in flight. [SEP] Woodpecker // the back of the skull. Computer simulations have shown that 99.7 percent of the energy generated in pecking is stored in the form of strain energy, which is distributed throughout the bird's body, with only a small remaining fraction of the energy going into the brain. The pecking also causes the woodpecker's skull to heat up, which is part of the reason why they often peck in short bursts with brief breaks in between, giving the head some time to cool. During the millisecond before contact with wood, a thickened nictitating membrane closes, protecting the eye from flying debris. These
A photo shows a weasel riding on the back of a woodpecker in flight. [SEP] Hatch Up Your Troubles // carelessly pecks the deckchair's leg, causing an irritated Tom to pour his drink onto the woodpecker. The woodpecker then pecks through the rest of the deckchair leg, causing the deckchair to fold up onto Tom. Tom chases after the bird. The baby woodpecker calls for his "mama" (Jerry) Jerry emerges from his mousehole and intervenes by hitting Tom with a rake. Tom gets to his feet and uses the rake to trap Jerry, but the woodpecker pecks the rake, sending Tom hurtling backwards into a mailbox. Tom then hurls the rake at the bird and the mouse, but the bird
A photo shows a weasel riding on the back of a woodpecker in flight. [SEP] The Egg and Jerry // but cannot resist pecking Jerry's furniture. Jerry returns the woodpecker to his nest, but the little bird follows Jerry back to his hole, at which Jerry orders him out. Dejected, the woodpecker wanders around the garden and comes across an unsuspecting Tom, who is sitting in a deckchair, drinking and reading a magazine. The woodpecker carelessly pecks the deckchair's leg, causing an irritated Tom to pour his drink onto the woodpecker. The woodpecker then pecks through the rest of the deckchair leg, causing the deckchair to fold up onto Tom. Tom chases the bird, but Jerry emerges from his mousehole
A photo shows a weasel riding on the back of a woodpecker in flight. [SEP] Yellow-fronted woodpecker // fore-crown, yellow cheeks, chin and throat, and a broad black band running from the base of the beak, through the eye to the nape. The mantle and upper wings are mainly black, and the back and rump are white. The tail is black with some white barring on the outer feathers. The breast is grey or olive, the belly red and the flanks barred in black and white or black and buff. The iris is blue-black and the distinct orbital ring is yellowish or orange. The beak is black and the legs and feet olive-brown. The juvenile is similar to
A photo shows a weasel riding on the back of a woodpecker in flight. [SEP] Yellow-tufted woodpecker // tail is black. The underside of the wing is barred in black and white. The beak is blackish, the legs grey, and the iris and orbital ring are yellow. The male differs from the female in having a red fore- and mid-crown while the female has these parts black. In northern and western races, the brow is yellow, cream or buff, and the hind-crown ha yellow or golden feathers, these often being tufted, but in southern races, these areas are black. Juveniles are similar to the adults but the upper parts are browner and the underparts are greyer; juveniles of
A photo shows a weasel riding on the back of a woodpecker in flight. [SEP] Woodpecker // membranes also prevent the retina from tearing. The nostrils are also protected; they are often slit-like and have special feathers to cover them. Woodpeckers are capable of repeated pecking on a tree at high decelerations in the order of (1000 g). Some large woodpeckers such as "Dryocopus" have a fast, direct form of flight, but the majority of species have a typical undulating flight pattern consisting of a series of rapid flaps followed by a swooping glide. Many birds in the genus "Melanerpes" have distinctive, rowing wing-strokes while the piculets engage in short bursts of rapid direct flight. Woodpeckers have
A photo shows a weasel riding on the back of a woodpecker in flight. [SEP] Ivory-billed woodpecker // dorsal surfaces of the wings are also consistent with ivory-billed but not pileated woodpecker. Avian artist Julie Zickefoose analyzed the 2006 video and commented on the "rared-back pose, long but fluffy and squared-off crest, and extremely long, erect head and neck" and an unusual short flight that does not seem to be consistent with a pileated woodpecker. A size comparison was carried out using part of the tree in which the bird in the 2006 video was perched. Two forks made it possible to scale frames from the video relative to a photo of a pileated woodpecker specimen that was
During wartime, the Seal of the President of the United States is modified so that the eagle's head faces the opposite direction. [SEP] Seal of the President of the United States // changed during times of war, so that the eagle faces the arrows in its left talon. This belief may have arisen because major changes to the seal have coincidentally been made before or after wars – specifically, the 1945 change in the seal, and also the 1916 change in the "flag" (though not the seal) from the right-facing Great Seal to the left-facing presidential seal. This misconception could also have arisen from a comment made by Winston Churchill, who (regarding Truman's redesign of the seal) joked: "Mr. President, with the greatest respect, I would prefer the American eagle's neck to
During wartime, the Seal of the President of the United States is modified so that the eagle's head faces the opposite direction. [SEP] Seal of the President of the United States // war, the Seal is replaced with one in which the eagle's head is turned toward the arrows. This is inaccurate. The Dan Brown novel "Deception Point" further perpetuates this misconception with a passage that implies the presidential seal embroidered on the carpet in the White House Oval Office is changed by White House workers. The novel states that one carpet is stored in the basement of the White House, and the workers simply swap the carpets overnight when no one notices. In the film "", there is a variation of the Presidential Seal that shows the eagle clutching a scroll.
During wartime, the Seal of the President of the United States is modified so that the eagle's head faces the opposite direction. [SEP] Seal of the President of the United States // that the seal had never had an official definition, meaning there was also no explanation for the eagle facing to its left instead of the typical heraldic custom of having such figures face to their right ("dexter"), which is considered the honorable side. Therefore, he recommended changing the direction the eagle faced, and provided an illustration along with a suggested blazon to be used in an official description. Truman agreed with most of these suggestions, additionally liking that the eagle would now face towards the olive branches (which he felt was symbolic of a nation on the march and dedicated
During wartime, the Seal of the President of the United States is modified so that the eagle's head faces the opposite direction. [SEP] Seal of the Vice President of the United States // shield is the same, the eagle's wings are more outstretched, with the wing tips pointing slightly down ("inverted", in heraldic terms). The eagle's right talon holds an olive branch, though with fewer leaves and berries than the depiction used in the 1945 Presidential seal, and the left talon holds a single arrow (rather than the 13 specified in both the Presidential and Great Seals). While the 1945 presidential seal added a ring of 48 stars around the eagle (representing the states), a ring of 13 stars (representing the original 13 colonies) was added to the 1948 vice presidential seal. The
During wartime, the Seal of the President of the United States is modified so that the eagle's head faces the opposite direction. [SEP] Dexter and sinister // an eagle clutching an olive branch in its dexter talon and arrows in its sinister talon, indicating the nation's intended inclination to peace. In 1945, one of the changes ordered for the similarly arranged Flag of the President of the United States by President Harry S. Truman was having the eagle face towards its right (dexter, the direction of honor) and thus towards the olive branch. The sides of a shield were originally named for the purpose of military training of knights and soldiers long before heraldry came into use early in the 13th century so the only viewpoint that
During wartime, the Seal of the President of the United States is modified so that the eagle's head faces the opposite direction. [SEP] Seal of the President of the United States // in 1846, which also had the eagle facing its left but additionally switched the olive branch and arrows so the head was still looking towards the branch. (Earlier proclamation letterheads, and even the Andrew Jackson White House china, also switched the arrows and branch and had the eagle facing to its left, though they were completely different designs otherwise.) Other influences may have been some U.S. coins and President Grant's china, which used the general design of an arc of clouds though the rest of the details were different. The actual seal used by the president was changed to have
During wartime, the Seal of the President of the United States is modified so that the eagle's head faces the opposite direction. [SEP] Seal of the President of the United States // be on a swivel so that it could face the olive branches or the arrows, as the occasion might demand". Also furthering this misconception was an episode of "The West Wing" entitled "What Kind of Day Has It Been?", aired in 2000. Character Admiral Fitzwallace, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, observed that the presidential seal in the center of the Oval Office carpet contained a shield bearing a bald eagle clutching the olive branch in its right talons and arrows in its left. The eagle's head was turned toward the olive branch. Fitzwallace mentioned that in times of
During wartime, the Seal of the President of the United States is modified so that the eagle's head faces the opposite direction. [SEP] Seal of the Vice President of the United States // of the national coat of arms; it shows an eagle with wings "displayed and inverted" (i.e., wing tips pointing down), with its head turned toward dexter (its own right). In its right talon is an olive branch, and its left holds six arrows (just like the incorrectly drawn 1841 Great Seal die). The shield has the usual blue chief and thirteen white and red stripes. At the top is the legend , and the bottom has . No other impression of a vice presidential seal is known prior to the 1948 version. The Presidential seal and flag were redesigned in
During wartime, the Seal of the President of the United States is modified so that the eagle's head faces the opposite direction. [SEP] Seal of the President of the United States // who followed the general arrangement of the Hayes arms but used considerable artistic license with the details. The eagle is substantially altered, with differently-shaped wings and thickly feathered legs. The shape of the shield was different, and the stars were arranged differently, with all stars appearing above the scroll using an arc of 10 stars with three more directly underneath. The scroll's inscription was . President Truman later felt that it was not right for people to walk over it, so when the White House was renovated again in 1948 he had the seal removed and placed over the door
During wartime, the Seal of the President of the United States is modified so that the eagle's head faces the opposite direction. [SEP] Colonel (United States) // of arrows in its talons. However, in simplification of the Great Seal image, the insignia lacks the scroll in the eagle's mouth and the rosette above its head. On the Great Seal, the olive branch is always clutched in the eagle's right-side talons, while the bundle of arrows is always clutched in the left-side talons. The head of the eagle faces towards the olive branch, rather than the arrows, advocating peace rather than war. As a result, the head of the eagle always faces towards the viewer's left. However, when worn as a single insignia with no matching pair, such
New study: The flu vaccine is 'significantly associated' with an increased risk of coronavirus [SEP] Influenza vaccine // severe complications. [...] Vaccination is associated with reductions in influenza-related respiratory illness and physician visits among all age groups, hospitalization and death among persons at high risk, otitis media among children, and work absenteeism among adults. Although influenza vaccination levels increased substantially during the 1990s, further improvements in vaccine coverage levels are needed". The egg-based technology (still in use as of 2005) for producing influenza vaccine was created in the 1950s. In the U.S. swine flu scare of 1976, President Gerald Ford was confronted with a potential swine flu pandemic. The vaccination program was rushed, yet plagued by delays and
New study: The flu vaccine is 'significantly associated' with an increased risk of coronavirus [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic vaccine // no adjuvant. The analysis reported that the adjuvanted vaccines were associated with slightly lower risks of chronic diseases, but that neither type of vaccines altered the normal rate of autoimmune diseases; the authors concluded that their data "supports the good safety profile associated with MF59-adjuvanted influenza vaccines and suggests there may be a clinical benefit over non-MF59-containing vaccines". A 2004 review of the effects of adjuvants on mice and humans concluded that "despite numerous case reports on vaccination induced autoimmunity, most epidemiological studies failed to confirm the association and the risk appears to be extremely low or non-existent", although the
New study: The flu vaccine is 'significantly associated' with an increased risk of coronavirus [SEP] Pneumonia // increased risk of getting pneumococcal disease. The pneumococcal vaccine has been shown to reduce the risk of community acquired pneumonia in people with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), but does not reduce mortality or the risk of hospitalization for people with this condition. People with COPD are suggested to have a pneumococcal vaccination. Other vaccines for which there is support for a protective effect against pneumonia include pertussis, varicella, and measles. When influenza outbreaks occur, medications such as amantadine or rimantadine may help prevent the condition; however are associated with side effects. Zanamivir or oseltamivir decrease the chance that people
New study: The flu vaccine is 'significantly associated' with an increased risk of coronavirus [SEP] Coronavirus // of a vaccine against the disease "since [the spike protein] appears to be recognized by the immune system of the host." Following the high-profile publicity of SARS outbreaks, there has been a renewed interest in coronaviruses among virologists. For many years, scientists knew about only two human coronaviruses (HCoV-229E and HCoV-OC43). The discovery of SARS-CoV added a third human coronavirus. By the end of 2004, three independent research labs reported the discovery of a fourth human coronavirus. It has been named NL63, NL, and the New Haven coronavirus by different research groups. The three labs are still arguing over which
New study: The flu vaccine is 'significantly associated' with an increased risk of coronavirus [SEP] Influenza vaccine // risks are mild and temporary when compared to the risks and severe health effects of the annual influenza epidemic. Flu vaccination may lead to side effects such as runny nose and sore throat, which can last for up to several days. Although Guillain–Barré syndrome had been feared as a complication of vaccination, the CDC states that most studies on modern influenza vaccines have seen no link with Guillain–Barré. Infection with influenza virus itself increases both the risk of death (up to 1 in 10,000) and increases the risk of developing Guillain–Barré syndrome to a far higher level than the highest
New study: The flu vaccine is 'significantly associated' with an increased risk of coronavirus [SEP] Influenza // from particularly severe disease. Pregnant women and young children are also at a high risk for complications. The flu can worsen chronic health problems. People with emphysema, chronic bronchitis or asthma may experience shortness of breath while they have the flu, and influenza may cause worsening of coronary heart disease or congestive heart failure. Smoking is another risk factor associated with more serious disease and increased mortality from influenza. According to the World Health Organization: "Every winter, tens of millions of people get the flu. Most are only ill and out of work for a week, yet the elderly are
New study: The flu vaccine is 'significantly associated' with an increased risk of coronavirus [SEP] Influenza vaccine // lack of high-quality evidence. Reviews of case–control studies found effects against laboratory-confirmed influenza, pneumonia, and death among the community-dwelling elderly. The group most vulnerable to non-pandemic flu, the elderly, benefits least from the vaccine. There are multiple reasons behind this steep decline in vaccine efficacy, the most common of which are the declining immunological function and frailty associated with advanced age. In a non-pandemic year, a person in the United States aged 50–64 is nearly ten times more likely to die an influenza-associated death than a younger person, and a person over age 65 is over ten times more likely
New study: The flu vaccine is 'significantly associated' with an increased risk of coronavirus [SEP] Influenza vaccine // the relationship of patient mortality relative to staff influenza vaccine uptake; both found that higher rates of health care worker vaccination correlated with reduced patient deaths. A 2014 review found benefits to patients when health care workers were immunized, as supported by moderate evidence based in part on the observed reduction in all-cause deaths in patients whose health care workers were given immunization compared with comparison patients in which the health care workers were not offered vaccine. Evidence for an effect in adults over 65 years old is unclear. Systematic reviews examining both randomized controlled and case–control studies found a
New study: The flu vaccine is 'significantly associated' with an increased risk of coronavirus [SEP] Human coronavirus NL63 // Researchers have suggested that more comprehensive, population-based studies are necessary to determine the effects of this virus on systems outside of the respiratory tract. Human coronavirus NL63 Human coronavirus NL63 or HCoV-NL63 is a species of coronavirus that was identified in late 2004 in a seven-month-old child with bronchiolitis in the Netherlands. Infection with the virus has been confirmed worldwide, and has an association with many common symptoms and diseases. Associated diseases include mild to moderate upper respiratory tract infections, severe lower respiratory tract infection, croup and bronchiolitis. The virus is found primarily in young children, the elderly, and immunocompromised
New study: The flu vaccine is 'significantly associated' with an increased risk of coronavirus [SEP] Pneumococcal vaccine // are considered severe. Local reactions are more likely after the 4th dose than the earlier doses. In clinical trials, fever greater than 100.4 F (38 C) was reported at a rate of 24-35% following any dose in the primary series and nonspecific symptoms such as decreased appetite or irritability occur in up to 80% of recipients. In a vaccine safety datalink study, febrile seizures occurred in roughly 1 in 83,000 to 1 in 6,000 children given PCV 13, and 1 in 21,000 to 1 in 2,000 of those who were given PCV13 and trivalent influenza vaccine at the same time.
UK Supreme Court hears attempt to change Northern Ireland abortion law. [SEP] Ann Power // to the Court, in July 2008, Power withdrew from participating in the case of "A, B and C v Ireland", a case brought by three women challenging Ireland's controversial abortion laws. She did so under Rule 28 of the Rules of Court, which restricts a judge from participating in consideration of a case where they will or may not be able to be impartial, for example where a family member is involved or they have previously acted in the matter. She was originally to be replaced in the Grand Chamber hearing by Supreme Court judge Mr Justice Nicholas Kearns, however
UK Supreme Court hears attempt to change Northern Ireland abortion law. [SEP] Northern Ireland law // the Institute of Professional Legal Studies at Queen's University Belfast and the Graduate School for Professional Legal Education at Ulster University. The 1967 Abortion Act does not apply in Northern Ireland. This situation led the Northern Ireland Human Rights Commission to take judicial proceedings which led to a decision in 2015 that Northern Ireland's abortion regime violated Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights as it failed to allow for termination in cases of fatal foetal abnormality or when pregnancy was due to a sexual offence. As to the mens rea for murder, see section 8 of the
UK Supreme Court hears attempt to change Northern Ireland abortion law. [SEP] Courts of Northern Ireland // Northern Ireland Courts and Tribunals Service. The Supreme Court of the United Kingdom was created by the Constitutional Reform Act 2005. It took its duties up on 1 October 2009. It is the highest court of appeal in Northern Ireland, hearing ultimate appeals from all the courts of the United Kingdom, other than Scottish criminal cases. The Supreme Court has taken over the appellate jurisdiction formerly vested in the House of Lords. The Court of Judicature of Northern Ireland is constituted by the Judicature (Northern Ireland) Act 1978. Until 1 October 2009 its name was the Supreme Court of Judicature.
UK Supreme Court hears attempt to change Northern Ireland abortion law. [SEP] Abortion in the United Kingdom // declaring that "the restrictive abortion laws and practices and barriers to access safe abortion are gender-discriminatory, denying women and girls treatment only they need". Finally, Northern Ireland Justice Minister David Ford issued a call for public consultation on amending the criminal law on abortion. The call for consultation took into consideration cases where "there is a diagnosis in pregnancy that the foetus has a lethal abnormality". and cases where "women have become pregnant as a result of sexual crime". Ford also wrote that "it is not a debate on the wider issues of abortion law – issues often labelled as
UK Supreme Court hears attempt to change Northern Ireland abortion law. [SEP] Abortion in the Republic of Ireland // case, "A, B and C v Ireland", was heard before the Grand Chamber of the Court on 9 December 2009 and was decided on 16 December 2010. In that case the Court ruled that the first two women's rights were not violated by being forced to travel because Irish law was "legitimately trying to protect public morals". ECHR also ruled that Irish law struck a fair balance between the women's rights to respect of their private lives and the rights of the unborn, although it found that Ireland had violated the Convention by failing to provide an accessible and effective
UK Supreme Court hears attempt to change Northern Ireland abortion law. [SEP] Abortion in the United Kingdom // Churches and their members support women in crisis pregnancies and/or who have experienced a miscarriage or abortion through practical support and advice and counselling services, either through personal initiative, the ministries of individual churches, or through non-denominational charities such as Life NI. An Amnesty International poll in October 2014 indicated that a majority within Northern Ireland's population appeared to agree to change abortion law in three particular cases: rape, incest and fatal foetal abnormality. For British left-wing journalist Polly Toynbee, the current situation is discriminatory against women: "We have to end the discrimination against women in Northern Ireland which as
UK Supreme Court hears attempt to change Northern Ireland abortion law. [SEP] Thirty-sixth Amendment of the Constitution of Ireland // in the past. The result re-opened the debate about the legality of abortion in Northern Ireland. In all constituent countries of the United Kingdom but Northern Ireland, abortion is legal in many circumstances under the Abortion Act 1967. Abortion in Northern Ireland has historically been considered a devolved matter to be decided by the Northern Ireland Assembly. In Belfast a rally took place advocating for the liberalisation of abortion laws in Northern Ireland, where there were calls for the UK government to step in. UK intervention to liberalise abortion laws in Northern Ireland is opposed by the Democratic Unionist Party,
UK Supreme Court hears attempt to change Northern Ireland abortion law. [SEP] Abortion in the United Kingdom // 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights. The declaration of incompatibility was quashed by the Court of Appeal on the grounds that "a broad margin of appreciation must be accorded to the state [and] a fair balance has been struck by the law as it presently stands until the legislature decides otherwise". On 7 June 2018, the Supreme Court of the United Kingdom held that the law of Northern Ireland was incompatible with the right to respect for private and family life, guaranteed by article 8 of the Convention, insofar as they prohibited abortion in cases of rape, incest
UK Supreme Court hears attempt to change Northern Ireland abortion law. [SEP] Abortion in the United Kingdom // the compatibility of Northern Ireland law with the Convention rights" to "recognise and take account of these conclusions ... by considering whether and how to amend the law". The opinion raises the possibility that Westminster may legislate to relax abortion laws in Northern Ireland, since human rights, unlike health, are not a devolved matter. The number of terminations of pregnancy per year in Northern Ireland since 2006–2007 inclusive is as follows: Northern Ireland Termination of Pregnancy Statistics 2014/15: Department of Health, Social Services and Public Safety (includes previous years to 2006-2007) The above bulletin explains that, in 2014–2015, the majority
UK Supreme Court hears attempt to change Northern Ireland abortion law. [SEP] Abortion in the United Kingdom // governing abortion in Northern Ireland are sections 58 and 59 of the Offences against the Person Act 1861 and sections 25 and 26 of the Criminal Justice Act (Northern Ireland) 1945 (which are derived from the corresponding provisions of the Infant Life (Preservation) Act 1929). An offence under section 58 is punishable with imprisonment for life or for any shorter term. Performing an abortion in Northern Ireland is an offence except in specific cases. An offence under section 25(1) of the Criminal Justice Act (Northern Ireland) 1945 is, by the proviso to that section, not committed if the act which
A Texas girl required surgery after she swallowed part of a fidget spinner while cleaning it. [SEP] Fidget spinner // and selling the spinner toys. As a result of their frequent use by school children, many school districts banned the toy. Some teachers argued that the spinners distracted students from their schoolwork. According to a survey conducted by Alexi Roy and published in May 2017, 32% of the largest 200 American public and private high schools had banned spinners on campus. When fidget spinners rose in popularity in 2017, many publications in the popular press discussed the marketing claims made about them for people with ADHD, autism, or anxiety. However, there is no scientific evidence that fidget spinners are effective
A Texas girl required surgery after she swallowed part of a fidget spinner while cleaning it. [SEP] Veterinary surgery // the udder and teats of cows are more difficult to repair, due to the difficult access and sensitivity of the organ, and because deep anaesthesia may not be applied to bovines. But some practitioners have acquired a great experience in dealing them. A variety of non-edible objects are commonly swallowed by dogs, cats, and cattle. These foreign bodies can cause obstruction of the gastrointestinal tract causing severe vomiting and resulting electrolyte imbalances. The stomach (gastrotomy) or intestine (enterotomy) can be surgically opened to remove the foreign body. Necrotic intestine can be removed (enterectomy) and repaired with intestinal anastomosis. Foreign bodies
A Texas girl required surgery after she swallowed part of a fidget spinner while cleaning it. [SEP] Burger King Pokémon container recall // to the face. Russ Rader, spokesperson for the commission, stated the more the child breathes, the tighter the ball is held in place. He claimed it is a hidden danger and is something parents could not anticipate. On December 23, an 18-month-old Kansas girl reportedly got half of the ball stuck on her nose and mouth, but her father managed to remove it before she was injured. This resulted in Burger King agreeing to a recall after no resolution had been passed between them and the Consumer Product Safety Commission. However, the CPSC told them to wait five days—December 29—to
A Texas girl required surgery after she swallowed part of a fidget spinner while cleaning it. [SEP] Frances Gordon // Social and Political Union (WSPU) organised a series of protest meetings in Perth to support the women; picketing the prison, singing hymns and shouting support through a megaphone. In Arabella Scott's autobiography, she describes the experience of being forcibly fed as bits of her broken teeth washed around with blood in her mouth. When she vomited after the tube was removed, "He [Watson] shouted at me 'you did that on purpose'." Parker and Gordon also alleged that this force-feeding involved attempts to feed through the rectum and the vagina which resulted in serious damage. Gordon's force-feeding was to last ten
A Texas girl required surgery after she swallowed part of a fidget spinner while cleaning it. [SEP] Force-feeding // breathing, carefully. Then she poured some slop through a funnel into the pipe that would choke me if it came back up. They held me down for another half-hour so that the liquid was absorbed by my stomach and could not be vomited back, and then began to pull the pipe out bit by bit." "The unfortunate patients had their mouth clamped shut, had a rubber tube inserted into their mouth or nostril. They keep on pressing it down until it reaches your esophagus. A china funnel is attached to the other end of the tube and a cabbage-like mixture
A Texas girl required surgery after she swallowed part of a fidget spinner while cleaning it. [SEP] Neodymium magnet toys // rulemaking brought forth by Zen Magnets LLC of Colorado. The new magnet safety rule requests that CPSC promulgate a mandatory safety standard that includes the following: The swallowing of small magnets such as neodymium magnetic spheres can result in intestinal injury requiring surgery. The magnets attract each other through the walls of the stomach and intestine, perforating the bowel. The Centers for Disease Control reported 33 cases requiring surgery and one death. The magnets have been swallowed by both toddlers and teens (who were using the magnets to pretend to have tongue piercings). Defenders of the toy say that the
A Texas girl required surgery after she swallowed part of a fidget spinner while cleaning it. [SEP] Mule spinners' cancer // tend to run down the left side and the left side and less often the middle of the scrotum will come into contact with the left thigh and the oily trousers some hundreds of times a day. Leitch reported, in 1922, that he had painted mineral oil from shale onto mice, inducing carcinomas, while Henry reported, in 1926, that shale oil was used on the rapidly rotating spindles, which, due to centrifugal force, sprayed out. There were, however, skeptics. Alternative theories included those such as the spinners were more susceptible to this cancer because they wore less clothing than wool
A Texas girl required surgery after she swallowed part of a fidget spinner while cleaning it. [SEP] Disembowelment // whilst sitting over uncovered swimming pool drains have been reported; notable cases include Valerie Lakey (1993) and Abigail Taylor (2007). In Taylor's case, the suction dislodged and damaged her liver and pancreas; several meters of her small intestine were forcefully pulled through her anus. In both these cases, the victims were left with short bowel syndrome and required feeding by total parenteral nutrition. After multiple operations, Taylor later died from transplant-related cancer. A person, usually a child, can suffer a similar injury if a heavy weight is applied directly over the abdomen. Large intestine (Rectosigmoid) rupture with transanal evisceration has
A Texas girl required surgery after she swallowed part of a fidget spinner while cleaning it. [SEP] Fidget spinner // as a treatment for children with autism or ADHD. Fidget spinner A fidget spinner is a toy that consists of a ball bearing in the center of a multi-lobed (typically two or three) flat structure made from metal or plastic designed to spin along its axis with little effort. Fidget spinners became popular toys in 2017, although similar devices had been invented as early as 1993. The toy has been promoted as helping people who have trouble focusing or those who fidget to relieve nervous energy, anxiety, or psychological stress. There are claims that a fidget spinner can help calm
A Texas girl required surgery after she swallowed part of a fidget spinner while cleaning it. [SEP] Alexa Scimeca Knierim // additional surgery on November 1 and returned to training by the middle of that month. Scimeca Knierim's illness involved regular episodes of vomiting, debilitating pain, difficulties with sleeping, eating or drinking, as well as significant weight loss. Already small, she lost 20 pounds and shrunk to just over 80 pounds. Knierim stated that when his wife initially returned to the ice following surgery, she had to hold his hands just to skate a lap around the rink and could only skate for 10 minutes before having to go home for a nap because it was so physically draining on her
Releasing inmates, screening staff: U.S. jails and prisons rush to limit virus risks. [SEP] Infectious diseases within American prisons // the spread of diseases and also provided inmates with medical attention. In Wayne County Jail Inmates v. Lucas, courts mandated that prisoners have the right to access drug detoxification and treatment for drug dependency. This has helped many inmates quarantine the disease by preventing the sharing of needles. Major programs and policies are being initiated within each state. In New York, the Hepatitis C Continuity Program was the first of its kind to remove limits on healthcare access if a prisoner spent a limited time in jail. Prisoners now have access to HCV antiviral treatment from the moment of incarceration
Releasing inmates, screening staff: U.S. jails and prisons rush to limit virus risks. [SEP] Infectious diseases within American prisons // Philadelphia, and Washington County Jails have provided condoms to inmates. Others have argued against providing condoms because officials feel it condones sexual activity, which is illegal within the prison system. Imprisonment as a response to US drug use has created a "de facto" policy of jailing more HIV-infected individuals. High-risk behavior that persists within prisons poses harm to inmates and the greater community alike, but US courts have chosen to remain silent. Separating infected individuals from the rest of the prison population has been seen as ineffective because not all infected individuals have been properly tested. That, therefore, promotes high-risk
Releasing inmates, screening staff: U.S. jails and prisons rush to limit virus risks. [SEP] Infectious diseases within American prisons // crimes. Because there is a high-volume turnover rate of inmates in the jail system, some inmates who are tested for HIV, HCV or other STDs may have been released before receiving their results. Correctional facilities should assure that all cases of newly diagnosed infectious diseases are reported to the state or local health department for assistance with notification of results, counseling, partner services and linkage to care. The CDC advocates a syndemic approach to intervene in the transmission of HIV, HCV and other STDs. This approach includes "combining services to minimize missed opportunities" to detect disease. This approach calls for
Releasing inmates, screening staff: U.S. jails and prisons rush to limit virus risks. [SEP] Infectious diseases within American prisons // within prisons is a concern because they pose a potential public health risk. When prisoners are released, they may continue the same behaviors, thereby increasing the chances of the disease spreading to outside communities. The "Western Journal of Medicine" estimates the prevalence and predictors of HCV infection among inmates of California by conducting a system wide survey. Findings concluded that HCV infection appears most common in men and women entering prison, displaying prevalence of anti-HCV positive highest among white males and Latina women. Limited testing for hepatitis C virus (HCV) in three North Carolina jails have shown a prevalence rate
Releasing inmates, screening staff: U.S. jails and prisons rush to limit virus risks. [SEP] Infectious diseases within American prisons // used individually or in combination with other approaches. One alternative approach could include risk-based criteria screening. The CDC recommends that jails routinely offer HIV testing to inmates who fall under one or more of the following criteria: The limitation with this screening approach is that risks are self-reported by the inmate. One study suggested that up to 42% of inmates diagnosed with HIV reported no risk factors. A second alternative approach is clinical screening based on HCV, HBV or STD infection. The presence of any of these diseases increases the likelihood of acquiring or transmitting HIV disease. Clinical criteria for
Releasing inmates, screening staff: U.S. jails and prisons rush to limit virus risks. [SEP] Infectious diseases within American prisons // for a health department or community-based organization case manager is available to help them navigate the healthcare system. Several studies indicate that follow-up care for HIV positive women may correlate with a reduction in recidivism. Correctional facilities should have the following CDC recommended procedures and resources in place for inmates being discharged from custody: The high rate of turnover in local jails as opposed to prisons may make it difficult to implement a routine testing program at intake or on a scheduled basis. In cases where testing all incoming inmates is not possible, there are alternative approaches that can be
Releasing inmates, screening staff: U.S. jails and prisons rush to limit virus risks. [SEP] Infectious diseases within American prisons // disease testing at the jail level. Jails are largely used to hold offenders who have been charged but not convicted of a crime. Local jails admitted an estimated 11.7 million persons during the 12-month period ending June 30, 2013. The average weekly turnover rate was 60.2 percent. Implementing HIV, HCV and other STD screening programs at the jail level is an effective way to detect disease before an infected individual is released back to the community and is able to transmit disease. At least 17% of people living with HIV/AIDS have been incarcerated at some point in their life. The
Releasing inmates, screening staff: U.S. jails and prisons rush to limit virus risks. [SEP] Infectious diseases within American prisons // otherwise mentally unstable. While medical evaluations typically occur within 10 days of detention, some inmates may have been released and thus, won't get tested. While the majority of HCV infections occur outside of prison, the disease is still widespread within the prison system as a result of drug injection. According to one Rhode Island prison study, HCV infection was found in 23.1% of the male prison population. HCV prevention proved to be more challenging than HIV prevention because inmates partake in high-risk behaviors such as "front loading" and sharing spoons to prepare drugs like cocaine. The prevalence of these diseases
Releasing inmates, screening staff: U.S. jails and prisons rush to limit virus risks. [SEP] Infectious diseases within American prisons // to even post-incarceration treatment. It was first issued measure in New York involving a coalition between different sectors to provide aid for prisoners even after release. Other guidelines included collaborating with the local healthcare systems that prisoners may potentially be released to after serving their terms. Serious public health outbreaks like the spread of Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus have prompted drastic measures leading to medical isolation. Proponents of this guideline seek to establish this measure throughout all U.S. Prisons. However, ethical issues have arisen as opponents question the segregation and labeling of individuals based on their health condition. Approaches to preventing
Releasing inmates, screening staff: U.S. jails and prisons rush to limit virus risks. [SEP] Infectious diseases within American prisons // public health concerns and issues they raise. The implementation of HIV and STD screening programs in the correctional setting is an important approach to reducing the annual number of new HIV infections in the United States. The correctional system in America is a patchwork of a wide variety of settings such as state and federal prisons, local jails, juvenile detention centers and they include the legal constraints of state laws. One process for HIV testing would be unlikely or even impossible in all correctional settings. There is an inherent difference in the jail versus the prison setting that merits infectious
Five minutes in the green can boost self esteem. [SEP] Green exercise // of Green Exercise in adults has demonstrated significant benefits for self-esteem and mood. The largest study of green exercise in adults involved meta-analytic methodologies to analyse the results of 10 studies based on 1252 green exercise participants. Results indicated that "the overall effect size for improved self-esteem was "d" = 0.46 (CI 0.34−0.59, "p" < 0.00001) and for mood "d" = 0.54 (CI 0.38−0.69, "p" < 0.00001). Dose responses for both intensity and duration showed large benefits from short engagements in green exercise, and then diminishing but still positive returns. The study also revealed that all types of green environment
Five minutes in the green can boost self esteem. [SEP] Green exercise // the benefits of these green care interventions. Care farming in particular has been demonstrated to improve self-esteem and mood in those suffering from a variety of mental illnesses, whilst wilderness therapy has been demonstrated to improve self-esteem and psychological health outcomes in youth at risk. Children In comparison to research in adults, research in children and young people has indicated that there is no additional benefit of taking part in green exercise for self-esteem or mood. These findings can be related to nature deficit disorder whereby children are spending less time outdoors interacting with natural environments. To receive benefits from
Five minutes in the green can boost self esteem. [SEP] Green exercise // improved self-esteem and mood, however the greatest improvements were experienced from environments where water was present. Similarly all cohorts of participants experienced improvements in self-esteem and mood, however those suffering from mental illness experienced the greatest increases in self-esteem. Vulnerable groups The outcomes of the meta-analysis by Barton and Pretty indicated that green exercise may have therapeutic applications. This has led to the idea of Green Care. Green Care comprises all types of therapeutic green exercise activities including social and therapeutic horticulture, animal assisted interventions, ecoptherapy, facilitated green exercise, wilderness therapy and care farming. There has been extensive research into
Five minutes in the green can boost self esteem. [SEP] Green exercise // Kaplan and Ulrich) and well-recognised work about the psychological benefits of physical exercise. The potential role of green exercise in physical and mental health (e.g., due to nature-deficit disorder) attracted increasing attention from the early twenty-first century, particularly through the research work of Jules Pretty and Jo Barton at the University of Essex. and several funded programs (see examples). Research has involved participants from many different cohorts including adults, young people and vulnerable groups such as those with mental illness (see research). Green exercise can be usefully considered from a number of theoretical perspectives including: Adults Research examining the impact
Five minutes in the green can boost self esteem. [SEP] Green exercise // Green exercise Green exercise refers to physical exercise undertaken in natural environments. Physical exercise is well known to provide physical and psychological health benefits. There is also good evidence that viewing, being in, and interacting with natural environments has positive effects, reducing stress and increasing the ability to cope with stress, reducing mental fatigue and improving concentration and cognitive function. The concept of Green exercise has therefore grown out of well-established areas such as the attention restoration theory within environmental psychology which have tended to focus on the psychological and physical effects of viewing nature (e.g., see the work of
Five minutes in the green can boost self esteem. [SEP] Green Hour // Green Hour Green Hour is a core concept of the U.S. National Wildlife Federation's Be Out There campaign. The campaign was created in response to a growing disconnect between nature and children, a condition dubbed nature deficit disorder by Richard Louv in his book "Last Child in the Woods". One of the primary symptoms of nature deficit disorder, according to Louv, is the replacement of outdoor activities (or "green time") with "screen time"—hours that are spent in front of computers, televisions and other electronic devices. The National Wildlife Federation recommends that parents give their kids a "Green Hour" every day,
Five minutes in the green can boost self esteem. [SEP] Nature connectedness // There are also many benefits from feeling connected to nature at the state level. Simply walking in nature for fifteen minutes (in comparison to walking in an urban environment) increases an individual's subjective connectedness to nature, positive affect, attentional capacity (as measured by the number of errors they made in a cognitive task) and their ability to reflect on a life problem. A life problem could be anything from finding enough time to study to resolving a fight participants had with close friends, significant others, or family members. These relationships were mediated by state nature connectedness (not attentional capacity or
Five minutes in the green can boost self esteem. [SEP] Green Gym // across the United Kingdom with an estimated 6,000 people taking part. The programme has received support from central government, and won a Charity Award in 2005. Green Gym groups meet at least once a week and do between 1 and 4 hours practical conservation or gardening work. All participants are Volunteers. Over two-thirds have never taken part in environmental conservation work before. Examples of the types of work undertaken include coppicing, clearing scrubland, path building, tree-planting or digging on an allotment. The group usually meets at the project site. Sessions include a refreshment break and a chance to socialise. Activities
Five minutes in the green can boost self esteem. [SEP] Garden-based learning // that develop positive qualities in youth Academic Skills Personal Development (Mental & Physical) Social & Moral Development Vocational and/or Subsistence Skills Life Skills Community Development Food Security Sustainable Development Vocational Education School Grounds Greening It has been proven that children are spending less and less time outdoors as new technology is invented. This trend has been seen to impact educational and social aspects of the youth. Spending more time outside has been seen to improve test scores and overall concentration. Having green areas is important to increase a students interest in nature and further help them understand compared to learning
Five minutes in the green can boost self esteem. [SEP] Ecopsychology // Child in the Woods: Saving our Children from Nature-Deficit Disorder" discusses in detail how the exposure of children to nature can assist in treating mental disorders, including attention deficit disorder. Community psychologist Guy Holmes' Walk and Talk groups have helped people with serious mental health diagnoses alongside other members of the general public to access the benefits of walking in green spaces in UK towns and cities. Gardening is one way to experience the practical benefits of connecting with nature, particularly in the contexts of stress reduction, restoration, and awareness. Initial experimental research about stress-relieving effects showed subjects who gardened
Pediatrics group backs bill to allow minors to seek vaccines. [SEP] Richard Pan // Senator Ben Allen introduced California Senate Bill 277 in 2015, which eliminated non-medical exemptions to vaccine requierments for California school children. After the bill passed and was signed into law by Governor Jerry Brown, opponents of the bill tried to force a recall election on Pan but failed to submit the required signatures. Pan authored laws to expand newborn screening for severe combined immunodeficiency syndrome (AB395 in 2011), adrenoleukodystrophy (AB1559 in 2014) and all conditions recommended by the federal DHHS Recommended Universal Screening Panel (SB1095 in 2016). Pan authored legislation to extend the California Children's Services Program managed care carve-out
Pediatrics group backs bill to allow minors to seek vaccines. [SEP] Dianne Primavera // cervical cancer vaccinations, and later introduced another bill, that was signed into law, to create a public awareness program for cervical cancer vaccinations, and require that Medicaid and private health insurance cover the costs of the vaccine. The bill also used tobacco settlement money to create a fund to provide the vaccine to underinsured women. Primavera also sponsored a successful bill to require that minors be required to wear helmets while riding motorcycles, which passed despite strong opposition from House Republicans. During the session, she was one of only a few Democrats to oppose a controversial plan by Governor Bill
Pediatrics group backs bill to allow minors to seek vaccines. [SEP] Health in the United States // cited this increased use of exemptions as contributing to loss of herd immunity within these communities, and hence an increasing number of disease outbreaks. The American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) advises physicians to respect the refusal of parents to vaccinate their child after adequate discussion, unless the child is put at significant risk of harm (e.g., during an epidemic, or after a deep and contaminated puncture wound). Under such circumstances, the AAP states that parental refusal of immunization constitutes a form of medical neglect and should be reported to state child protective services agencies. See Vaccination schedule for the vaccination
Pediatrics group backs bill to allow minors to seek vaccines. [SEP] MMR vaccine controversy // the children concerned. A pressure group called JABS (Justice, Awareness, Basic Support) was established to represent families with children who, their parents said, were "vaccine-damaged". £15 million in public legal aid funding was spent on the litigation, of which £9.7 million went to solicitors and barristers, and £4.3 million to expert witnesses. The omnibus autism proceeding (OAP) is a coordinated proceeding before the Office of Special Masters of the U.S. Court of Federal Claims—commonly called the vaccine court. It is structured to facilitate the handling of nearly 5000 vaccine petitions involving claims that children who have received certain vaccinations have
Pediatrics group backs bill to allow minors to seek vaccines. [SEP] Vaccination schedule // 65 years and over, people with certain long-term medical conditions, health and social care professionals and poultry workers. The most up-to-date schedules are available from CDC's National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases. In the US, the National Childhood Vaccine Injury Act requires all health-care providers to provide parents or patients with copies of Vaccine Information Statements before administering vaccines. The CDC recommends pregnant women receive some vaccines, such as the measles, mumps, rubella (MMR) vaccine a month or more before pregnancy. The Tdap vaccine (to help protect against whooping cough) is recommended during pregnancy. Other vaccines, like the flu
Pediatrics group backs bill to allow minors to seek vaccines. [SEP] Vaccine controversies // where not required by law. Refusal of doctors to treat unvaccinated children may cause harm to both the child and public health, and may be considered unethical, if the parents are unable to find another healthcare provider for the child. Opinion on this is divided, with the largest professional association, the American Academy of Pediatrics, saying that exclusion may be an option under narrowly defined circumstances. Others have questioned whether it is right to punish a child for parents' bad choices. Vaccination has been opposed on religious grounds ever since it was introduced. Some Christian opponents argued, when vaccination was
Pediatrics group backs bill to allow minors to seek vaccines. [SEP] National Vaccine Information Center // autism. The CDC now recommends the newer acellular pertussis vaccines (DTaP and Tdap), and whole cell pertussis vaccines are no longer used in the U.S. due to adverse effects unrelated to autism. In the early 1980s, the organization joined with the American Academy of Pediatrics to draft the original legislation for the National Childhood Vaccine Injury Act of 1986, which created a federal vaccine injury compensation program, mandated that doctors give parents vaccine benefit and risk information, and required the recording and reporting of vaccine injuries and deaths (see Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System). The organization changed its name to
Pediatrics group backs bill to allow minors to seek vaccines. [SEP] Texans for Vaccine Choice // large-scale outbreak, between now and session. Short of that, I just don’t think there is going to be the appetite to do this bill.” Texans for Vaccine Choice also helps parents apply for vaccine exemptions for their children. in the 2018 TX statehouse election for district 114, TFVC endorsed republican Luby Ryan. David Gorski has described Texans for Vaccine Choice as anti-vaccine, criticizing them for publishing blog posts misrepresenting herd immunity, and accusing TFVC of exaggerating the risks of vaccines and downplaying the benefits. Gorski has also criticized Jackie Schlegel for describing her autistic daughter as vaccine injured. Schlegel says
Pediatrics group backs bill to allow minors to seek vaccines. [SEP] Dorit Rubinstein Reiss // refuse to vaccinate their children. This fund would act as a tax which would cover the public health costs generated as a consequence of non-vaccination. Another alternative would be billing parents if it is determined that their failure to vaccinate caused an outbreak of a vaccine-preventable disease. The authors sent their proposal to California state Senators Ben Allen and Richard Pan. Reiss has also expressed support for California Senate Bill 277, a bill that eliminated non-medical vaccine exemptions for children attending school and child care centers in Califirnia. Reiss argues that sending non-vaccinated children to school would put both the
Pediatrics group backs bill to allow minors to seek vaccines. [SEP] Renee Ellmers // of 2015. Democratic Congressman G.K. Butterfield cosponsored the bill. The trade association for biotechnology companies (the Biotechnology Industry Organization, "BIO") supported the bill. If passed into law, the bill would make the work conducted by the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) more transparent and consistent toward the goal of developing recommendations for vaccines; create a formal process for the Centers for Disease Control to meet regularly with companies that make vaccines; and push Medicare to promptly pay for vaccines for senior citizens. Ellmers met her husband Brent Ellmers, a surgeon, while working at Beaumont Hospital. After the birth of
Dutch teen author Noa Pothoven was voluntarily euthanized. [SEP] Annie M. G. Schmidt // sketches for such luminaries as Wim Sonneveld and Wim Kan. Her literary career took off in the early 1950s, and included song- and playwriting for the theatre, scripts for radio and television shows, columns for newspapers, and children's books. Her final book, "Wat Ik Nog Weet", a book of childhood memories, appeared in 1992. She used euthanasia a day after her 84th birthday (with a combination of pills and alcohol) and was buried in Amsterdam. By the time she died in 1995 (of heart failure caused by euthanasia), she was an icon of the Dutch literary world, and even her
Dutch teen author Noa Pothoven was voluntarily euthanized. [SEP] Annie M. G. Schmidt // for adults, she is known best for children's books. Her best-known work for children may be the series "Jip and Janneke". Many of her books, such as "Pluk van de Petteflet", were illustrated by Fiep Westendorp. Schmidt received the 1988 Hans Christian Andersen Medal for her lasting contribution as a children's writer. The biennial award conferred by the International Board on Books for Young People is the highest recognition available to a writer or illustrator of children's books. By the time she died in 1995 (of heart failure caused by euthanasia), she was an icon of the Dutch literary world,
Dutch teen author Noa Pothoven was voluntarily euthanized. [SEP] Marita van der Vyver // Kom Weer" in 2001. Her youth novel "Die Ongelooflike Avonture van Hanna Hoekom" won the Sanlam Prize for Youth Fiction in 2002 and was made into a film in 2010. Marita van der Vyver Marita van der Vyver (born 6 May 1958) is an Afrikaans author who has written several books for both adult and youth audiences. Since 1999, she has been settled in France with her husband and three children. Van der Vyver wrote a collection of humorous essays detailing life in the countryside of France, titled "Die hart van ons huis" in 2004, after which her first volume
Dutch teen author Noa Pothoven was voluntarily euthanized. [SEP] Annie M. G. Schmidt // and even her death—peaceful, in the company of her friends and family—continues to be referenced in the Dutch media and played an important role in discussions of euthanasia. Anna Mannie Gannie "Annie" Schmidt was born on 20 May 1911 in Kapelle, Zeeland in the Netherlands. She was the daughter of Dutch Reformed minister Johannes Daniel Schmidt (1871–1951) and school teacher Geertruida Maria Bouhuijs. She had an elder brother Wim and two older sisters also named Anna M. G. who both died young and before she was born. She was called Zus () by her family. She was a solitary child,
Dutch teen author Noa Pothoven was voluntarily euthanized. [SEP] Heleen van Royen // novels were adapted for film, "De gelukkige huisvrouw" (2009, adapted for the stage in the same year), and "De ontsnapping" ("The Escape", 2010). She has two children, daughter Olivia and son Sam. In November 2006, van Royen posed nude for Playboy. Heleen van Royen Heleen van Royen (born Helena Margaretha Kroon; 9 March 1965 in Amsterdam) is a Dutch novelist and columnist. Her novel "De gelukkige huisvrouw" ("The Happy Housewife") was best-selling Dutch novel of 2010. The candid descriptions of sexuality (including her own) found in her books and her columns have drawn considerable attention, as have her personal revelations
Dutch teen author Noa Pothoven was voluntarily euthanized. [SEP] Voluntary euthanasia // most famous author Hugo Claus, suffering from Alzheimer's disease, was among those that asked for euthanasia. He died in March 2008, assisted by an Antwerp doctor. A key turning point in the debate over voluntary euthanasia (and physician assisted dying), at least in the United States, was the public furor over the Karen Ann Quinlan case. The Quinlan case paved the way for legal protection of voluntary passive euthanasia. In 1977, California legalized living wills and other states soon followed suit. In 1980 the Hemlock Society USA was founded in Santa Monica by Derek Humphry. It was the first group
Dutch teen author Noa Pothoven was voluntarily euthanized. [SEP] Non-voluntary euthanasia // considered cases of non-voluntary euthanasia. Since 2004, the Netherlands, also has a protocol to be followed in cases of euthanasia on children under the age of 12 (see also below), which was ratified by the Dutch National Association of Pediatricians, although the practice remains technically illegal. Together with colleagues and prosecutors, Eduard Verhagen developed the Groningen Protocol, in which cases prosecutors will refrain from pressing charges. Active euthanasia on newborns is illegal throughout the world, with the "de facto" exception of the Netherlands mentioned above. Because a newborn child is never able to speak for themselves, euthanasia on newborns is
Dutch teen author Noa Pothoven was voluntarily euthanized. [SEP] Doeschka Meijsing // Literature Prize, the F. Bordewijk Price and the Opzij Literature, was inspired by her relationship with Xandra Schutte. This relationship ended because her partner had left her for someone else. Meijsing died at the age of 64 from complications of major surgery. She lived until her death in Amsterdam, where she lived in an apartment above her ex-partner. Doeschka Meijsing Maria Johanna Meijsing (21 October 1947 – 30 January 2012) was a Dutch novelist. She won the AKO Literatuurprijs in 2000 for her novel "De tweede man", and in 2008 the Ferdinand Bordewijk Prijs for her novel "Over de liefde".
Dutch teen author Noa Pothoven was voluntarily euthanized. [SEP] Hella Haasse // Hella Haasse Hélène "Hella" Serafia Haasse (2 February 1918 – 29 September 2011) was a Dutch writer, often referred to as "the Grand Old Lady" of Dutch literature, and whose novel "Oeroeg" (1948) was a staple for generations of Dutch schoolchildren. Her internationally acclaimed magnum opus is ""Heren van de Thee"", translated to ""The Tea Lords"". In 1988 Haasse was chosen to interview the Dutch Queen for her 50th birthday after which celebrated Dutch author Adriaan van Dis called Haasse ""the Queen among authors"". Haasse has the first Dutch digital online museum dedicated to the life and work of an
Dutch teen author Noa Pothoven was voluntarily euthanized. [SEP] Marieke Vervoort // Flemish sports journalists. Despite her success, Vervoort said that she was considering euthanasia as she was preparing for the Paralympics in Rio. She suffers from a painful degenerative disease and she has said that Rio is her "last wish". She has clarified that this does not mean euthanasia will occur immediately after the games, stating that "You have to live day-by-day and enjoy the little moments. When the day comes—when I have more bad days than good days—I have my euthanasia papers. But the time is not there yet." She lives with Zenn, her assistance Labrador. Marieke Vervoort Marieke Vervoort
Human virus linked to mountain gorilla deaths. [SEP] Mountain gorilla // from tourists and locals are at a continued risk of disease cross-transmission (Lilly et al., 2002) – this is in spite of attempts to enforce a rule that humans and gorillas be separated by a distance of 7 metres at all times to prevent this. With a similar genetic makeup to humans and an immune system that has not evolved to cope with human disease, this poses a serious conservation threat. Indeed, according to some researchers, infectious diseases (predominantly respiratory) are responsible for about 20% of sudden deaths in mountain gorilla populations. With the implementation of a successful ecotourism program
Human virus linked to mountain gorilla deaths. [SEP] Magdalena Bermejo // in a population of 143. Her work was described in a National Geographic video of 2001. Between October 2002 and January 2003, at the same time that humans in nearby villages were beginning to die from the Zaire strain of the Ebola virus disease (ZEBOV), 130 of the 143 gorillas died. The researchers monitored seven more social groups, and found that 91 of 95 gorillas died between October 2003 and January 2004. Extrapolating from these results, they estimated that in a area around the Lossi Sanctuary, about 5000 gorillas died. Because of the high mortality rate, the International Union for
Human virus linked to mountain gorilla deaths. [SEP] Magdalena Bermejo // Conservation of Nature (IUCN) listed the western lowland gorilla as Critically Endangered, one step away from Extinct in the Wild. Initially, opinions were divided on whether ZEBOV was the cause of the deaths, and if so whether the disease was spread via a reservoir in other species (for example, bats or birds) or by gorilla-to-gorilla transmission. Out of twelve carcasses that Bermejo and her group examined, nine tested positive for Ebola. By the lag time between deaths in neighboring social groups, they were able to show that the disease mainly spread from social group to social group. Based on these
Human virus linked to mountain gorilla deaths. [SEP] Magdalena Bermejo // results, other scientists have argued for a vaccination campaign to protect other gorillas. Bermejo has continued to study gorillas after the Ebola outbreak. In 2009, she found a concentration of them near Odzala National Park. Six social groups have been found, two of which are habituated. Among the foci of the study are the impact of Ebola and interactions with other species (chimpanzees and humans). After the loss of gorillas to Ebola, Bermejo began to create community projects to help both the gorillas and the people in nearby villages. With support from Sabine Plattner African Charities, development of the nearby
Human virus linked to mountain gorilla deaths. [SEP] Western lowland gorilla // of four phylogenetic lineages, which at some point in time have independently gone through cross-species transmission of the SIV (simian immune-deficiency virus). The simian immunodeficiency virus infected various African primates such as apes, gorillas and chimpanzees. Disease has also been a factor in the survival of the western lowland gorilla. The Ebola epizootic in western and central Africa has caused more than 90% mortality rate in western lowland gorillas. From 2003–2004, two epizootics infected the western lowland gorilla, which caused two thirds of their population to disappear. The outbreak was monitored in the Republic of Congo by Magdalena Bermejo and
Human virus linked to mountain gorilla deaths. [SEP] Monkeypox virus // deaths occurred. Monkeypox virus Monkeypox virus (MPV) is a double-stranded DNA, zoonotic virus and a species of the genus "Orthopoxvirus" in the family Poxviridae. It is one of the human orthopoxviruses that includes variola (VARV), cowpox (CPX), and vaccinia (VACV) viruses. But it is not a direct ancestor to, nor a direct descendent of, the variola virus which causes smallpox. The monkeypox virus causes a disease that is similar to smallpox, but with a milder rash and lower death rate. Variation in virulence of the virus has been observed in isolates from Central Africa where strains are more virulent than
Human virus linked to mountain gorilla deaths. [SEP] Mountain gorilla // borne, gastrointestinal parasites such as "Cryptosporidium" sp., "Microsporidia" sp., and "Giardia" sp. are genetically identical when found in livestock, humans, and gorillas; particularly along theborder of the Bwindi Impenetrable Forest, Uganda. Another example of human induced disease is Tuberculosis; Kabagambe et al. found that as high as 11% of cattle in Rwanda suffered from this affliction. War and civil unrest: Rwanda, Uganda and the Democratic Republic of Congo have been politically unstable and beleaguered by war and civil unrest over the last decades. Simulation modeling, Byers et al. (2003) has suggested that times of war and unrest have negative impacts
Human virus linked to mountain gorilla deaths. [SEP] WildlifeDirect // that the financial support can go to where it was intended in its entirety. Their core costs are provided for separately through grants, primarily from the European Union . Mountain gorillas In January 2007, Congo Rangers in charge of gorilla protection from Virunga National Park reported through their blogs with WildlifeDirect that one solitary male, silverback mountain gorilla had been killed and butchered. A week later WildlifeDirect reported the death of another male mountain gorilla, later identified as Karema, in the same area. His remains, principally his head, had been dumped in a pit latrine. WildlifeDirect's intervention in the gorillas
Human virus linked to mountain gorilla deaths. [SEP] Western lowland gorilla // strain of HIV-1. The HIV-1 virus exhibits phylogeographic clustering, which is due to large rivers. This clustering allows us to pinpoint the probable geographic origins of two of the human virus clades. In the southern part of Cameroon, the populations of western lowland gorillas have had examinations of their feces. Out of 2,934 gorilla samples, 70 reacted with at least one HIV-1 antigen. These samples came from four field sites, all located in southern Cameroon. The origin of AIDS has been linked to a virus known to infect more than 40 species of nonhuman primates in Africa. HIV-1, is composed
Human virus linked to mountain gorilla deaths. [SEP] Ebola virus disease // such books admitted that they lacked medical credentials and were not technically qualified to give medical advice. The World Health Organization and the United Nations stated that such misinformation had contributed to the spread of the disease. Ebola has a high mortality rate among primates. Frequent outbreaks of Ebola may have resulted in the deaths of 5,000 gorillas. Outbreaks of Ebola may have been responsible for an 88% decline in tracking indices of observed chimpanzee populations in the 420 km Lossi Sanctuary between 2002 and 2003. Transmission among chimpanzees through meat consumption constitutes a significant risk factor, whereas contact between
Hilary Rosen Says Chris Christie "vetoed Planned Parenthood funding five times over the course of his governorship. [SEP] Chris Christie 2016 presidential campaign // in reference to lands in dispute. Christie later apologized for the remark, which is rejected by some conservative Zionists and other supporters of Israel who see it as validating Palestinian views. As governor, In 2010 Christie vetoed $7.5 million in funding for family planning clinics, including Planned Parenthood, saying the money was duplicative and unaffordable. He vetoed the funding four more times in following years. Christie had repeatedly stated the decision was financial and not one based on his beliefs. In February 2015 he stated. "I'm pro-life, I ran as a pro-life candidate in 2009 unapologetically, spoke at the pro-life
Hilary Rosen Says Chris Christie "vetoed Planned Parenthood funding five times over the course of his governorship. [SEP] Chris Christie 2016 presidential campaign // rally on the steps of the Statehouse -- the first governor to ever speak at a pro-life rally on the steps of the Statehouse -- and vetoed Planned Parenthood funding five times out of the New Jersey budget." "I support Planned Parenthood privately with my personal contribution and that should be the goal of any such agency, to find private donations," Christie was quoted saying in The Star-Ledger on Sept. 30, 1994. In 2016, Christie said: "Well I never donated to Planned Parenthood…", Christie claims he was misquoted. Christie supports the collection of metadata of phone calls of American citizens
Hilary Rosen Says Chris Christie "vetoed Planned Parenthood funding five times over the course of his governorship. [SEP] Chris Christie: The Inside Story of His Rise to Power // on budgetary grounds, he stated that he supported it ideologically. By their account, Christie stated that “I support Planned Parenthood privately with my personal contribution.” However, in 2016, a Christie spokeswoman stated: “The governor didn’t donate to Planned Parenthood.” According to the Wall Street Journal, early in his career Christie described himself as pro-choice; he later became pro-life. Chris Christie: The Inside Story of His Rise to Power Chris Christie: The Inside Story of His Rise to Power is a political profile of New Jersey Governor Chris Christie by Bob Ingle, and Michael G Symons, two experienced journalists. Christie was
Hilary Rosen Says Chris Christie "vetoed Planned Parenthood funding five times over the course of his governorship. [SEP] Chris Christie // restrictions on abortion such as banning "partial-birth abortion", requiring parental notification, and imposing a 24-hour waiting period. He does support legal access to abortion in cases of rape, incest, or if the woman's life is in danger. In 2014, campaigning in Alabama for incumbent governor Robert Bentley, Christie stated that he was the first "pro-life governor" elected in New Jersey since "Roe v. Wade" in 1973. He also stated that he had vetoed funding for Planned Parenthood five times as governor. In March 2015, Christie joined other potential 2016 Republican presidential candidates in endorsing a ban on abortions after 20
Hilary Rosen Says Chris Christie "vetoed Planned Parenthood funding five times over the course of his governorship. [SEP] Governorship of Chris Christie // over New Jersey's state budget for the 2012 fiscal year starting July 1, 2011, began in February 2011. Governor Christie vetoed 14 bills on February 21, 2011, which were intended to promote economic growth and job creation and were passed by the New Jersey State Assembly earlier in the month. Christie justified his vetoes by stating that the bills failed to pay for themselves, while Assembly Democrats replied that the bills would not have cost money immediately, and that their funding could have been addressed at a later date. Christie followed up by announcing that his own budget would be
Hilary Rosen Says Chris Christie "vetoed Planned Parenthood funding five times over the course of his governorship. [SEP] Governorship of Chris Christie // to judge the governor. Jenkins states, "Should his appeal continue through the campaign season, he stands poised to potentially help his party in the legislature in November." Following another release Governor Christie's approval numbers remain virtually unchanged from June, despite a high-profile veto of gun legislation. In June, Governor Christie garnered a 61 percent job approval rating. Today, that number is 58%, with 29% who say they disapprove of the governor's job performance. Discussions on the governor's vetoed bipartisan gun control legislation during the poll did not appear to significantly affect his ratings. Jenkins asserts, "Use of his executive power
Hilary Rosen Says Chris Christie "vetoed Planned Parenthood funding five times over the course of his governorship. [SEP] Governorship of Chris Christie // amount of $500 million in 2011. In June 2013, Christie signed a $33 billion state budget that made a record $1.7 billion payment to the state's pension fund and also increased school funding by almost $100 million. He agreed to expand the state's Medicaid program, with more costs covered by the federal government under the Affordable Care Act. Under Christie New Jersey's credit rating has been downgraded the most of any New Jersey governor. As of September 2014, only Illinois had a lower rating among US states. On May 2, 2014, Fitch Ratings, one of the major Wall Street credit-rating
Hilary Rosen Says Chris Christie "vetoed Planned Parenthood funding five times over the course of his governorship. [SEP] Chris Christie: The Inside Story of His Rise to Power // President Bush the personnel he wanted as the Bush administration worked to respond to Islamist terrorism. Christie used his position as United States Attorney for New Jersey not only to prosecute terrorism cases, but to uncover and prosecute political corruption. Each year he held the Office, his staff prosecuted more cases than it had done the year before. According to Ingle and Symons, Christie left office not only as the longest serving, but as arguably the "most successful U.S. attorney in New Jersey history." Ingle and Symons report that in the mid-90s, when Christie opposed county funding for Planned Parenthood
Hilary Rosen Says Chris Christie "vetoed Planned Parenthood funding five times over the course of his governorship. [SEP] Governorship of Mitt Romney // has kept his campaign promises. Romney vetoed an emergency contraception bill in July 2005, claiming that allowing it to pass into law would violate his "moratorium" on changes to the abortion laws. He vetoed a bill on pro-life grounds that the bill would expand access to emergency contraception in hospitals and pharmacies. He returned from his vacation house in New Hampshire to veto the bill, because the Lt. Govorner, Kerry Healey would have signed the bill into law. The legislature voted overwhelmingly to overturn the veto and pass the bill into law on September 15, 2005. At the time of
Hilary Rosen Says Chris Christie "vetoed Planned Parenthood funding five times over the course of his governorship. [SEP] Governorship of Chris Christie // ratings among NJ residents in the following months. In August 2012, a FDU's PublicMind poll showed that 55% of New Jersey voters approved of the way Christie is handling his job as governor, 35% disapproved. Numbers showed that men (61%) were more likely to approve of Christie than women (49%). PublicMind's new Executive Director, Krista Jenkins Ph.D., commented on the results; "The fact that the governor's appeal remains sound suggests that the bloom remains on this New Jersey rose, even if women are slightly more likely to see the thorns than see the beauty." During the 2012 Presidential Campaign, Governor
Program Cut Catheter-Associated Urinary Tract Infections [SEP] Catheter-associated urinary tract infection // Catheter-associated urinary tract infection Catheter-associated urinary tract Infection, or CAUTI, is a urinary tract infection associated with urinary catheter use. A number of combined practices such as improved hand hygiene, enhanced barrier protection and reduced catheter use when managing incontinence appear to reduce CAUTI. Urinary catheters should be inserted using aseptic technique and sterile equipment (including sterile gloves, drape, sponges, antiseptic and sterile solution), particularly in an acute care setting. Although catheter use should be minimized in all patients, particularly those at higher risk of CAUTI and mortality (e.g. the elderly or those with impaired immunity), a meta analysis suggests
Program Cut Catheter-Associated Urinary Tract Infections [SEP] Catheter-associated urinary tract infection // hospital stay, and increased cost and mortality. Catheter-associated urinary tract infection Catheter-associated urinary tract Infection, or CAUTI, is a urinary tract infection associated with urinary catheter use. A number of combined practices such as improved hand hygiene, enhanced barrier protection and reduced catheter use when managing incontinence appear to reduce CAUTI. Urinary catheters should be inserted using aseptic technique and sterile equipment (including sterile gloves, drape, sponges, antiseptic and sterile solution), particularly in an acute care setting. Although catheter use should be minimized in all patients, particularly those at higher risk of CAUTI and mortality (e.g. the elderly or those
Program Cut Catheter-Associated Urinary Tract Infections [SEP] Catheter-associated urinary tract infection // there is insufficient evidence to determine the value of different policies for replacing long term urinary catheters on patient outcomes. Bacteria and yeast, including those naturally occurring as part of the human microbiome, can grow within biofilm that forms along the surface of urinary catheters. This leads to infection in the bladder, kidneys, and other organs connected to the urinary tract. CAUTI can lead to complications such as prostatitis, epididymitis, and orchitis in men, and cystitis, pyelonephritis, gram-negative bacteremia, endocarditis, vertebral osteomyelitis, septic arthritis, endophthalmitis, and meningitis in all patients. Complications associated with CAUTI cause discomfort to the patient, prolonged
Program Cut Catheter-Associated Urinary Tract Infections [SEP] Urinary tract infection // risk of an associated infection can be decreased by catheterizing only when necessary, using aseptic technique for insertion, and maintaining unobstructed closed drainage of the catheter. Male scuba divers using condom catheters and female divers using external catching devices for their dry suits are also susceptible to urinary tract infections. A predisposition for bladder infections may run in families. This is believed to be related to genetics. Other risk factors include diabetes, being uncircumcised, and having a large prostate. In children UTIs are associated with vesicoureteral reflux (an abnormal movement of urine from the bladder into ureters or kidneys) and
Program Cut Catheter-Associated Urinary Tract Infections [SEP] Urinary tract infection // of contraception, they are advised to use alternative methods. In those with benign prostatic hyperplasia urinating in a sitting position appears to improve bladder emptying which might decrease urinary tract infections in this group. Using urinary catheters as little and as short of time as possible and appropriate care of the catheter when used prevents catheter-associated urinary tract infections. They should be inserted using sterile technique in hospital however non-sterile technique may be appropriate in those who self catheterize. The urinary catheter set up should also be kept sealed. Evidence does not support a significant decrease in risk when silver-alloy
Program Cut Catheter-Associated Urinary Tract Infections [SEP] Central venous catheter // Program (CUSP) that helped participating hospitals in Michigan lower CLABSIs. By 2012, the project had become a $20 million nationwide initiative. Additionally, the Institute for Healthcare Improvement (IHI) has done a tremendous amount of work in improving hospitals' focus on central line-associated bloodstream infections (CLABSI), and is working to decrease the incidence of this particular complication among US hospitals. The IHI and CLABSI has identified proper hand washing by the performing provider, sterile draping over the person, thorough cleaning of the insertion site, and daily review for ongoing CVC need as key ways to decrease infection rate. The National Patient
Program Cut Catheter-Associated Urinary Tract Infections [SEP] Urine collection device // to use both day and night. Potential complications can be increase in severity and frequency with long-term use. Up to 40% of condom catheter users will develop a urinary tract infection with long-term use. Additionally, 15% of long term users will develop skin injuries including: inflammation, ulceration, necrosis, gangrene and constriction of the penis. Additionally, sizing can prove difficult for some men, leading to dislodgement of the catheter and urine spillage during voiding (commonly referred to as pop-offs or blow-offs). Additionally, 1.3% of condom catheter users will develop a bladder or renal stone requiring medical treatment. Special UCDs exist for
Program Cut Catheter-Associated Urinary Tract Infections [SEP] Foley catheter // incidence of bloodstream infections secondary to a urinary origin, there is a huge amount of unnecessary, and likely harmful, antimicrobial prescribing on the basis of detection of asymptomatic bacteriuria. The industry is moving to silver-coated catheters in an attempt to reduce the incidence of urinary tract infections, although there is limited evidence of efficacy. An additional problem is that Foley catheters tend to become coated over time with a biofilm that can obstruct the drainage. This increases the amount of stagnant urine left in the bladder, which further contributes to urinary tract infections. When a Foley catheter becomes clogged, it
Program Cut Catheter-Associated Urinary Tract Infections [SEP] Urinary catheterization // patients commonly are catheterized to reduce their cost of care. However, long-term catheterization carries a significant risk of urinary tract infection. Because of this risk catheterization is a last resort for the management of incontinence where other measures have proved unsuccessful. Other long term complications may include blood infections (sepsis), urethral injury, skin breakdown, bladder stones, and blood in the urine (hematuria). After many years of catheter use, bladder cancer may also develop. Everyday care of catheter and drainage bag is important to reduce the risk of infection. Such precautions include: There is no clear evidence that any one catheter
Program Cut Catheter-Associated Urinary Tract Infections [SEP] Foley catheter // tract infection is the most common type of hospital-acquired infection. Indwelling catheters should be avoided when there are alternatives, and when patients and caregivers discuss alternatives to indwelling urinary catheters with their physicians and nurses then sometimes an alternative may be found. Physicians can reduce their use of indwelling urinary catheters when they follow evidence-based guidelines for usage, such as those published by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. All catheterised bladders become colonised with bacteria within 24 hours. This is not infection and is very poorly understood by clinicians. Whilst the presence of a catheter does increase the
New Mexico land boss concerned about border wall work. [SEP] Environmental issues along the Mexico–United States border // Arizona and southwest New Mexico as the three border regions where the barrier posed the greatest risk to wildlife. In Texas, for example, "the border barrier affects 60% to 70% of the habitat in the South Texas Wildlife Refuge Complex, which includes the Laguna Atascosa, Lower Rio Grande Valley, and Santa Ana National Wildlife Refuges." On January 25, President Donald Trump issued Executive Order 13767, directing construction of a U.S. border wall. Such a wall is not under construction, and Congress has not appropriated the funds to build such a wall. The construction of a border wall as envisioned in
New Mexico land boss concerned about border wall work. [SEP] The Sinister Pig // who own the land providing natural resources, including oil, natural gas and coal; the tribes are suing the Department of Interior. Bernadette Manuelito is on routine surveillance in her new position as a US Customs Patrol Officer, when she finds the Tuttle ranch in the boot heel of New Mexico, where a truck with Mexican license plates enters. She investigates, taking photos of the exotic wildlife and the construction project underway, described as a pump for water for the oryxes and ibexes. She shares the prints of her photos with Sgt. Chee, who in turn shares them with Lt. Leaphorn.
New Mexico land boss concerned about border wall work. [SEP] Executive Order 13767 // states on the U.S.–Mexico border, are strongly opposed to the construction of a wall, citing its massive cost and logistical difficulties, and saying that the wall would not be effective. Tony Estrada, a member of the Coalition and the longtime sheriff of the border county of Santa Cruz County, Arizona, has emerged as an outspoken critic of Trump's border wall proposal, saying that the wall will not stymie drug cartel violence fueled by demand for drugs in the U.S. A February 2017 study conducted by the Pew Research Center found that "[a]s was the case throughout the presidential campaign, more
New Mexico land boss concerned about border wall work. [SEP] Eloisa Garcia Tamez // Texas-Mexico border wall. Eloisa Garcia Tamez Eloisa Garcia Tamez (born March 2, 1935) is a Lipan Apache civil rights leader, lecturer, professional nurse, professor and retired officer of the United States Army's Nursing Corps. She is a prominent opponent and litigant against the Texas-Mexico border wall. Born in Cameron County, Texas to Jose Cavazos Garcia (of Lipan Apache, Comanche, and Hispanic descent) and Lydia Esparza Garcia (Nahua, Basque, and Hispanic), Eloisa Garcia Tamez was raised in a traditional Indigenous community with her sibling, grandparents, cousins, and extended family. Her birth community is located within the historical land-base of the Lipan
New Mexico land boss concerned about border wall work. [SEP] Mexico–United States barrier // if necessary to force Congress to pay for the wall. As of the end of 2017, Mexico has not entered into any agreement to pay for any amount of the wall. In March, 2018, Congress appropriated $1.6 billion out of a $1.3 trillion spending bill, which helped toward adding and repairing fence along the border. On September 12, 2017, the United States Department of Homeland Security issued a notice that Acting Secretary of Homeland Security Elaine Duke would be waiving "certain laws, regulations and other legal requirements" to begin construction of the new wall near Calexico, California. The waiver allows
New Mexico land boss concerned about border wall work. [SEP] Executive Order 13767 // Trump threatened to cancel a planned meeting with Nieto in Washington, Nieto decided to cancel the meeting himself. Addressing supporters, the Mexican opposition leader Andrés Manuel López Obrador condemned the wall order as an insult to Mexico, and demanded the Mexican government to pursue claims in the United Nations against the Trump administration. In March 2017, Mexican congressman Braulio Guerra of Querétaro climbed, but did not cross, an existing United States-Mexico 30-foot border fence dividing San Diego and Tijuana, saying that more walls would be ineffective. In a video, Guerra says atop the barrier: "I was able to scale it,
New Mexico land boss concerned about border wall work. [SEP] Immigration policy of Donald Trump // wall across the nearly 2,000-mile border and at other times indicated more selective placement." After a meeting with Mexican President Enrique Peña Nieto on August 31, 2016, Trump said that they "didn't discuss" who would pay for the border wall that Trump has made a centerpiece of his presidential campaign. Nieto contradicted that later that day, saying that he at the start of the meeting "made it clear that Mexico will not pay for the wall". Later that day, Trump reiterated his position that Mexico will pay to build an "impenetrable" wall on the Southern border. John Cassidy of "The
New Mexico land boss concerned about border wall work. [SEP] Punta Colonet // political processes so that their concerns could be heard and represented by the federal government. At this time the small land owners group have the largest say how the land will be used in relation to the needs of the land owners represented by Jesus Lara. Mr. Lara has family ties in this area for decades and is a southern California businessman with ties to the trucking industry, with a point of view very congruent to the landowners in the area. t Also, some US citizens are concerned about loss of jobs in favor of cheaper Mexican labor. Where unions
New Mexico land boss concerned about border wall work. [SEP] Beto O'Rourke // "top priority" to protect DREAMers. In October 2016, he gave a TEDx talk, titled The Border Makes America Great, about his views on immigration. He has criticized President Donald Trump's rhetoric on immigration, saying: "[Trump is] constantly stoking anxiety and fear about Mexicans, immigrants and the border with Mexico. Unfortunately this President takes another step into a dark world of fear, isolation and separation." In June 2018, O'Rourke led protests in Tornillo, Texas, to protest the Trump administration family separation policy which involved the separation of children of immigrant families. The city is located just miles from the Rio Grande,
New Mexico land boss concerned about border wall work. [SEP] Farm Labor Organizing Committee // and Representative Marcy Kaptur (D-OH) met with officials from office of the Attorney General of Mexico to resolve problems with the implementation of the new security measures. Although the IACHR has been pressuring the Mexican government since early May to install the cameras, the Nuevo León and federal government disagree over who will pay for them. The police officer visits to the union offices also have been less frequent than promised. In 2006, the North Carolina branch of FLOC began its new campaign against R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company. FLOC president Baldemar Velazquez spoke of the tragic and preventable deaths of
Chronic wasting disease found in buck on Winona County farm. [SEP] Chronic wasting disease // Wisconsin and northern Illinois and in an isolated area of southern New Mexico. In 2005, it was found in wild white-tailed deer in New York and in Hampshire County, West Virginia. In 2008, the first confirmed case of CWD in Michigan was discovered in an infected deer on an enclosed deer-breeding facility. It is also found in the Canadian provinces of Alberta and Saskatchewan. In February 2011, the Maryland Department of Natural Resources reported the first confirmed case of the disease in that state. The affected animal was a white-tailed deer killed by a hunter. CWD has also been diagnosed
Chronic wasting disease found in buck on Winona County farm. [SEP] Chronic wasting disease // Fisheries, and Parks announced that a Mississippi deer tested positive for chronic wasting disease. Another Mississippi whitetail euthanized in Pontotoc County on Oct 8, 2018 tested positive for CWD. The disease was confirmed by the National Veterinary Services Lab in Ames, IA on Oct. 30, 2018.<Times Daily Florence, AL 11/12/18 Species that have been affected with CWD include elk, mule deer, white-tailed deer, black-tailed deer, and moose. Other ruminant species, including wild ruminants and domestic cattle, sheep, and goats, have been housed in wildlife facilities in direct or indirect contact with CWD-affected deer and elk, with no evidence of disease
Chronic wasting disease found in buck on Winona County farm. [SEP] Chronic wasting disease // have been slaughtered and tested, and the quarantine has been lifted from one herd that underwent rigorous surveillance with no further evidence of disease. CWD also has been found in farmed elk in the Canadian provinces of Saskatchewan and Alberta. A retrospective study also showed mule deer exported from Denver to the Toronto Zoo in the 1980s were affected. In June 2015, the disease was detected in a male white-tailed deer on a breeding ranch in Medina County, Texas. State officials euthanized 34 deer in an effort to contain a possible outbreak. In February 2018, the Mississippi Department of Wildlife,
Chronic wasting disease found in buck on Winona County farm. [SEP] Chronic wasting disease // transmission. However, experimental transmission of CWD into other ruminants by intracranial inoculation does result in disease, suggesting only a weak molecular species barrier exists. Research is ongoing to further explore the possibility of transmission of CWD to other species. By April 2016, CWD had been found in captive animals in South Korea; the disease arrived there with live elk that were imported for farming in the late 1990s. In the summer of 2018, cases were discovered in the Harpur Farm herd in Grenville-sur-la-Rouge, Quebec. In 2016, the first case of CWD in Europe was from the Nordfjella free-ranging reindeer in
Chronic wasting disease found in buck on Winona County farm. [SEP] Chronic wasting disease // Chronic wasting disease Chronic wasting disease (CWD) is a transmissible spongiform encephalopathy (TSE) of mule deer, white-tailed deer, elk (or "wapiti"), moose, and caribou. As of 2016, CWD had been found in members of the deer family only. First recognized as a clinical "wasting" syndrome in 1967 in mule deer in a wildlife research facility in northern Colorado, USA, it was identified as a TSE in 1978 and has spread to free-ranging and captive populations in 23 US states and two Canadian provinces. CWD is typified by chronic weight loss leading to death. No relationship is known between CWD and
Chronic wasting disease found in buck on Winona County farm. [SEP] Chronic wasting disease // water sources contaminated with CWD prions shed by diseased deer. The disease was first identified in 1967 in a closed herd of captive mule deer in contiguous portions of northeastern Colorado. In 1980, the disease was determined to be a TSE. It was first identified in wild elk and mules in 1981 in Colorado and Wyoming, and in farmed elk in 1997. In May 2001, CWD was also found in free-ranging deer in the southwestern corner of Nebraska (adjacent to Colorado and Wyoming) and later in additional areas in western Nebraska. The limited area of northern Colorado, southern Wyoming, and
Chronic wasting disease found in buck on Winona County farm. [SEP] Chronic wasting disease // in soils, and better ways to monitor the food supply. Deer harvesting and management issues are intertwined. Chronic wasting disease Chronic wasting disease (CWD) is a transmissible spongiform encephalopathy (TSE) of mule deer, white-tailed deer, elk (or "wapiti"), moose, and caribou. As of 2016, CWD had been found in members of the deer family only. First recognized as a clinical "wasting" syndrome in 1967 in mule deer in a wildlife research facility in northern Colorado, USA, it was identified as a TSE in 1978 and has spread to free-ranging and captive populations in 23 US states and two Canadian provinces.
Chronic wasting disease found in buck on Winona County farm. [SEP] Chronic wasting disease // western Nebraska in which free-ranging deer, moose, and/or elk positive for CWD have been found is referred to as the endemic area. The area in 2006 has expanded to six states, including parts of eastern Utah, southwestern South Dakota, and northwestern Kansas. Also, areas not contiguous (to the endemic area) areas in central Utah and central Nebraska have been found. The limits of the affected areas are not well defined, since the disease is at a low incidence and the amount of sampling may not be adequate to detect it. In 2002, CWD was detected in wild deer in south-central
Chronic wasting disease found in buck on Winona County farm. [SEP] Chronic wasting disease // is caused by a prion, an abnormal form of a normal protein, known as prion protein (PrP), that is most commonly found in the central nervous system (CNS), but is capable of spreading to the peripheral nervous system (PNS), thus infecting meat, or muscle, of deer and elk. The abnormality in PrP has its genetic basis in a particular variant of the protein-coding gene "PRNP" that is highly conserved among mammals and has been found and sequenced in deer. The prion PrP infects the host animal by promoting conversion of normal cellular protein (PrP) to the abnormal prion form (PrP
Chronic wasting disease found in buck on Winona County farm. [SEP] Chronic wasting disease // in farmed elk and deer herds in a number of states and in two Canadian provinces. The first positive farmed-elk herd in the United States was detected in 1997 in South Dakota. Since then, additional positive elk herds and farmed white-tailed deer herds have been found in South Dakota (7), Nebraska (4), Colorado (10), Oklahoma (1), Kansas (1), Minnesota (3), Montana (1), Wisconsin (6), and New York (2). As of fall of 2006, four positive elk herds in Colorado and a positive white-tailed deer herd in Wisconsin remain under state quarantine. All of the other herds have been depopulated or
Christine Blasey Ford committed perjury by identifying herself as a 'research psychologist' in her Senate committee testimony. [SEP] Christine Blasey Ford // Christine Blasey Ford Christine Margaret Blasey Ford (; born November 1966) is an American professor of psychology at Palo Alto University and a research psychologist at the Stanford University School of Medicine. She specializes in designing statistical models for research projects. During her academic career, Ford has worked as a professor at the Stanford University School of Medicine Collaborative Clinical Psychology Program. In September 2018, Ford publicly alleged that then-U.S. Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh sexually assaulted her in Bethesda, Maryland, when they were teenagers in the summer of 1982. She testified about her allegations during a Senate Judiciary Committee
Christine Blasey Ford committed perjury by identifying herself as a 'research psychologist' in her Senate committee testimony. [SEP] Christine Blasey Ford // not been able to resume her teaching at Palo Alto University. Christine Blasey Ford Christine Margaret Blasey Ford (; born November 1966) is an American professor of psychology at Palo Alto University and a research psychologist at the Stanford University School of Medicine. She specializes in designing statistical models for research projects. During her academic career, Ford has worked as a professor at the Stanford University School of Medicine Collaborative Clinical Psychology Program. In September 2018, Ford publicly alleged that then-U.S. Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh sexually assaulted her in Bethesda, Maryland, when they were teenagers in the summer of
Christine Blasey Ford committed perjury by identifying herself as a 'research psychologist' in her Senate committee testimony. [SEP] Christine Blasey Ford // majority to question Ford on their behalf. Alternating with Mitchell's questions, Democratic committee members questioned Ford themselves. After the hearing Mitchell produced a report stating "there is no clear standard of proof during the Senate confirmation process" and said she did "not think that a reasonable prosecutor would bring this case based on the evidence before the Committee" and that she did not "believe that this evidence is sufficient to satisfy the preponderance-of-evidence standard." Mitchell said there were multiple inconsistencies in Ford's testimony. Some used these inconsistencies to argue Ford had incorrectly remembered the event. However, psychologists who study memory
Christine Blasey Ford committed perjury by identifying herself as a 'research psychologist' in her Senate committee testimony. [SEP] Christine Blasey Ford // a letter to Senate Judiciary Chairman Chuck Grassley requesting that the FBI investigate the incident before the Senate holds a hearing on Ford's allegations to "ensure that the crucial facts and witnesses in this matter are assessed in a non-partisan manner, and that the Committee is fully informed before conducting any hearing or making any decisions." The letter additionally noted the significant public support Ford had received, but also severe harassment including death threats, forcing her to leave her home. The same day, a crowdfunding campaign was created to defray Ford's security costs, surpassing its $100,000 goal in less than
Christine Blasey Ford committed perjury by identifying herself as a 'research psychologist' in her Senate committee testimony. [SEP] Christine Blasey Ford // radical left wing politicians". On September 27, the Senate Judiciary Committee held an additional day of public hearings to discuss her allegations. Ford and Kavanaugh were the only witnesses scheduled. Ford testified that Kavanaugh "groped me and tried to take off my clothes," and that "I believed he was going to rape me." Kavanaugh had previously denied all allegations of sexual assault as "totally false and outrageous" and testified separately later in the day. Republican members of the committee did not question Ford directly; that was done by Rachel Mitchell, a career prosecutor from Arizona retained by the committee's Republican
Christine Blasey Ford committed perjury by identifying herself as a 'research psychologist' in her Senate committee testimony. [SEP] Christine Blasey Ford // professor emeritus in biostatistics who co-authored a book and several articles with Ford. Ford has written or co-written several books about psychological topics, including depression. Her other research topics published in academic journal articles have included child abuse and the September 11 attacks. In 2015, she co-authored a book entitled "How Many Subjects? Statistical Power Analysis in Research." Her research into the social impact of hiding one's sexual orientation was published in 2016 in the journal "Behavior Therapy", and reviewed by psychologist William Gibson of the American Psychological Association, who found their research "demonstrates that issues of identity have relevance
Christine Blasey Ford committed perjury by identifying herself as a 'research psychologist' in her Senate committee testimony. [SEP] Christine Blasey Ford // them. As corroboration of her account, Ford provided the "Post" with the polygraph results as well as session notes from her couples therapist written in 2012. The therapist's notes do not name Kavanaugh but record Ford's claim of being attacked by students "from an elitist boys' school" who went on to become "highly respected and high-ranking members of society in Washington". The therapist's notes also say four boys were involved, which Ford attributed to an error by the therapist; Ford said in 2018 that four boys were at the party but only two were involved in the incident. Ford's husband
Christine Blasey Ford committed perjury by identifying herself as a 'research psychologist' in her Senate committee testimony. [SEP] Christine Blasey Ford // came forward to explain how traumatic memories are often unclear and incomplete. Ford listed several persons who were present during the party including "Mark Judge, Patrick "PJ" Smyth, and her lifelong friend Leland Keyser". The three named individuals have submitted statements to the Committee "denying any memory of the party whatsoever". Again, psychologists who study memory noted that it is not unexpected that this party would not stand out for others who had attended but did not experience an event "particularly worth remembering. Mitchell said that Ford's case was "even weaker than" the standard "he said, she said" case, because
Christine Blasey Ford committed perjury by identifying herself as a 'research psychologist' in her Senate committee testimony. [SEP] Christine Blasey Ford // Dianne Feinstein, one of Ford's senators in California and the ranking Democrat on the Senate Judiciary Committee, which would deliberate Kavanaugh's nomination. In a July 30, 2018 letter to Feinstein, Ford alleged that Kavanaugh had sexually assaulted her when both were in high schools in Bethesda, Maryland, and stated that she expected her story to be kept confidential. In August, Ford took a polygraph test with a former FBI agent, who concluded Ford was being truthful when attesting to the accuracy of her allegations. Owing to her confidentiality commitment to Ford, Feinstein did not raise the issue in the initial
Christine Blasey Ford committed perjury by identifying herself as a 'research psychologist' in her Senate committee testimony. [SEP] Christine Blasey Ford // other witnesses identified by Ford "either refuted her allegations, or failed to corroborate them". On September 28, after a request from U.S. Senator Jeff Flake, followed by a request from the Senate Judiciary Committee, President Trump ordered an FBI supplemental background investigation concerning the sexual assault allegations against Kavanaugh. On October 3, NBC News reported that Ford, Kavanaugh, and dozens of other witnesses were not interviewed by the FBI due to restrictions imposed by the White House. The confidential FBI report was shown privately to members of Congress on October 4; Judiciary Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) said there was
In an impoverished Chilean suburb, a recycling drive flourishes. [SEP] La Chureca // pick through the garbage which is then sorted and sold to suppliers of recyclable materials. Workers in La Chureca are self- employed individuals and, or families who collect salvageable items such as plastic, aluminum cans, and scrap metals such as copper and iron (Bergin, 2008). These workers are highly organized labour chains. That is, if one person collects glass, the other will clean it, another will crush and recycle it and another will sell it to a collector who will then sell it to different companies (Grisby Vergara, 2008). It is clear that the existing piles of garbage would be
In an impoverished Chilean suburb, a recycling drive flourishes. [SEP] Recycling // the law. However, in Brazil and Argentina, waste pickers/informal recyclers work alongside the authorities, in fully or semi-funded cooperatives, allowing informal recycling to be legitimized as a paid public sector job. Because the social support of a country is likely to be less than the loss of income to the poor undertaking recycling, there is a greater chance the poor will come in conflict with the large recycling organizations. This means fewer people can decide if certain waste is more economically reusable in its current form rather than being reprocessed. Contrasted to the recycling poor, the efficiency of their recycling
In an impoverished Chilean suburb, a recycling drive flourishes. [SEP] Ruby Rumié // the displacement that is taking place in this neighborhood. This project explores the value of memory in a place at risk of transformation, the supermarket "El Cartonal de Valparaiso" in Chile. This project looks at the emblematic supermarket that is being threatened by modern supermarkets and at its people. She investigates the richness of the cultures, traditions and trades passed down from one generation to another through photographs and census. She transforms the people of this place into objects, prints them onto industrial packaging and sells them in bulk representing the disappearance of the customs and traditions that are part
In an impoverished Chilean suburb, a recycling drive flourishes. [SEP] Hauling (film) // 2011. Hauling (film) Hauling is a 2010 documentary film on poor families who work as recyclers in Sao Paulo, Brazil. The recycling underworld of Sao Paulo, Brazil is the background to this documentary centering on Claudieni, father to 27 children. In his green VW bus, he visits the Santa Efigenia neighborhood of Sao Paulo to recycle plastic, cardboard, and computers and other electronic equipment. He and his family represent the lower class of people who are discriminated against by other strata of society. The film will have its U.S. West Coast premiere at the San Francisco Green Film Festival in
In an impoverished Chilean suburb, a recycling drive flourishes. [SEP] Hauling (film) // Hauling (film) Hauling is a 2010 documentary film on poor families who work as recyclers in Sao Paulo, Brazil. The recycling underworld of Sao Paulo, Brazil is the background to this documentary centering on Claudieni, father to 27 children. In his green VW bus, he visits the Santa Efigenia neighborhood of Sao Paulo to recycle plastic, cardboard, and computers and other electronic equipment. He and his family represent the lower class of people who are discriminated against by other strata of society. The film will have its U.S. West Coast premiere at the San Francisco Green Film Festival in March
In an impoverished Chilean suburb, a recycling drive flourishes. [SEP] Albina Ruiz // of Peru, in six versions of the program. They have has organized more than 1,500 waste collectors, creating employment and improving health and living conditions for over 6 million people living in rural and poor urban regions in Bolivia, Brazil, Colombia, Mexico, Peru, Venezuela and India. Ciudad Saludable also established the organization Peru Waste Innovation, a consulting firm specializing in solid waste management, and Healthy Cities International in New York City, which works to replicate the group's model in other countries. Ruiz and Ciudad Saludable have received a number of honours, including a 1995 fellowship from the Ashoka Foundation, a
In an impoverished Chilean suburb, a recycling drive flourishes. [SEP] Electronic waste by country // the past decade, solid waste management has recently become a central concern for Chile’s government. In 2009, the Chilean National Environmental Commission identified Chile as “one of the countries with the highest rates of waste generation in Latin America” . They’ve since been working to implement a law, with the help of the National Environment Commission (CONAMA), that would add regulatory power over waste production. In August 2013, the Chilean congress approved a law that established a framework for waste management, EPR and the encouragement of recycling. In 2013, Colombia implemented an EPR law that ultimately focused on enforcing guidelines
In an impoverished Chilean suburb, a recycling drive flourishes. [SEP] Zero waste // landfill" plants include Subaru, Xerox and Anheuser-Busch. The movement continues to grow among the youth around the world under the organization Zero Waste Youth, which originated in Brazil and has spread to Argentina, Puerto Rico, Mexico, the United States, and Russia. The organization multiplies with local volunteer ambassadors who lead zero waste gatherings and events to spread the zero waste message. Milk can be shipped in many forms. One of the traditional forms was reusable returnable glass milk bottles, often home delivered by a milkman. While some of this continues, other options have recently been more common: one-way gable-top paperboard
In an impoverished Chilean suburb, a recycling drive flourishes. [SEP] Albina Ruiz // services, and to pay for them on time. As of 2014 the group had trained over 300 professionals from Peru, Brazil, Venezuela, Chile and Ecuador, overseeing projects in 20 cities across Peru, employing more than 150 people and providing services to over 3 million residents in Peru. Ruiz was subsequently asked by the Peruvian government to come up with a national plan, and led the creation of the first law in Peru (as well as Latin America) to regulate the activities of waste recyclers. Ruiz and Ciudad Saludable developed a distance education program on waste management, with the Catholic University
In an impoverished Chilean suburb, a recycling drive flourishes. [SEP] Landfill Harmonic // children and Cola, who all live there. Cola is the luthier, the sweet and humble garbage picker who makes those wonderful instruments for the children. Favio Chavez is the director and heart of the orchestra. His love and commitment to these children is fascinating" Juliana Penaranda-Loftus: "We heard a story about an orchestra that was put together using recycled garbage in April of 2009, it was during our first research trip to Paraguay. In the summer 2010, Alejandra and I came back with director of photography and friend Tim Fabrizio. We arrived to do some initial filming in order to
Tests of New AIDS Gel Show Promise for Women. [SEP] CAPRISA 004 // young women who were judged to be at risk of contracting HIV volunteered to use a study gel in their vaginas, with half of those receiving the microbicide gel and the other half getting the placebo (according to their randomization results). The study asked participants to apply a first dose of the gel within 12 hours before having sex and to apply another dose within 12 hours after sex. All study volunteers participated in HIV risk reduction counseling and received condoms. The study assisted in arranging treatment for any sexually transmitted infections that participants contracted. The study began in May
Tests of New AIDS Gel Show Promise for Women. [SEP] HIV/AIDS in Africa // tested and found effective a tenofivir-based anti-retroviral vaginal gel that could be used as pre-exposure prophylaxis. Testing of this gel was conducted at the University of KwaZulu-Natal in Durban, South Africa. The South African government has indicated its willingness to make it widely available. The FDA in the US is in the process of reviewing the drug for approval for US use. The AIDS/HIV epidemic has led to the rise in unethical medical experimentation in Africa. Since the epidemic is widespread, African governments sometimes relax their laws in order to get research conducted in their countries which they would otherwise
Tests of New AIDS Gel Show Promise for Women. [SEP] Microbicides for sexually transmitted diseases // at preventing HIV transmission from men to women during sex. In July 2010 the Centre for the AIDS Programme of Research in South Africa (CAPRISA) released results of a study establishing proof of concept that an ARV-based, topical microbicide can reduce the likelihood of HIV transmission. The trial, CAPRISA 004, was conducted among 889 women to evaluate the ability of 1% tenofovir gel to prevent male-to-female HIV transmission. The study found a 39% lower HIV infection rate in women using 1% tenofovir gel compared with women using a placebo gel. In addition, tenofovir gel was shown to be safe as
Tests of New AIDS Gel Show Promise for Women. [SEP] Rectal microbicide // same vaginal formulation of tenofovir gel that reduced HIV acquisition by an estimated 39 percent overall in the CAPRISA (Centre for the AIDS Programme of Research) 004 trial that was conducted in South Africa. In September 2009, 18 men and women began enrolling in the trial, which was sponsored by the Microbicide Trials Network (MTN) and UCLA’s Microbicide Development Program. The study tested the safety and acceptability of single- and multiple-day rectal applications of tenofovir, a single oral dose of tenofovir, and a placebo. Laboratory tests showed that HIV was significantly inhibited in rectal tissue samples from participants who applied
Tests of New AIDS Gel Show Promise for Women. [SEP] CONRAD (organization) // in a 24-hour period - also called the BAT 24 regimen. In the overall study population, tenofovir gel reduced HIV-1 incidence by 39% and herpes simplex virus-2 (HSV-2) infections by 51%. CAPRISA 004. Two subsequent trials tested the gel in larger populations in order to provide more evidence for regulatory approval: VOICE, sponsored by the MTN, studied daily use of the gel, and FACTS 001, sponsored by CONRAD and conducted by the Wits Reproductive Health and HIV Institute in South Africa, replicated the CAPRISA 004 study in a larger population of women and called for the BAT24 regimen. Unfortunately, neither
Tests of New AIDS Gel Show Promise for Women. [SEP] Microbicides for sexually transmitted diseases // tested. The results of the CAPRISA 004 trial provide statistically significant evidence that ARVs, topically applied to the vaginal mucosa, can offer protection against HIV and (potentially) other pathogens. During the study, 38 of the women who used the tenofovir gel acquired HIV and 60 women who used a placebo gel became HIV-infected. No tenofovir-resistant virus was detected in the women who acquired HIV infection during the study. In addition to demonstrating efficacy against HIV, CAPRISA 004 found evidence that tenofovir gel also prevents the transmission of herpes simplex virus type 2 (HSV-2). HSV-2 is a lifelong, incurable infection which
Tests of New AIDS Gel Show Promise for Women. [SEP] HIV/AIDS // vaginal gel containing tenofovir (a reverse transcriptase inhibitor) immediately before sex seems to reduce infection rates by approximately 40% among African women. By contrast, use of the spermicide nonoxynol-9 may increase the risk of transmission due to its tendency to cause vaginal and rectal irritation. Circumcision in Sub-Saharan Africa "reduces the acquisition of HIV by heterosexual men by between 38% and 66% over 24 months". Due to these studies, both the World Health Organization and UNAIDS recommended male circumcision in 2007 as a method of preventing female-to-male HIV transmission in areas with high rates of HIV. However, whether it protects
Tests of New AIDS Gel Show Promise for Women. [SEP] Rectal microbicide // University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA's) Microbicide Development Program initiated the first Phase I RM safety trial, investing the safety and acceptability of UC-781, in December 2006. Rectal application of UC-781 gel, a potent antiretroviral (ARV) drug, was shown to be safe and acceptable to the 36 men and women in the trial. Phase I trials normally focus solely on safety and acceptability, but researchers used a novel approach in this trial: taking rectal tissue biopsies from participants and exposing them to HIV ex vivo in the laboratory. The drug significantly reduced HIV transmission in these essays. RMP-02/MTN-006 Tested the
Tests of New AIDS Gel Show Promise for Women. [SEP] CONRAD (organization) // U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID), with additional funding from The Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation and the National Institutes of Health (NIH). CONRAD works by conducting pre-clinical development and clinical trials. MICROBICIDES and HIV PREVENTION: Using the antiretroviral tenofovir (TFV), donated by Gilead Sciences, CONRAD developed a gel for use in the genital tract. Tenofovir gel was tested in a double-blinded, placebo-controlled Phase II study conducted by the Centre for AIDS Research Programme in South Africa (CAPRISA). Study participants were required to insert their assigned gel before and after sex, using a pre-filled applicator, not to exceed two doses
Tests of New AIDS Gel Show Promise for Women. [SEP] Microbicides for sexually transmitted diseases // Agency. Results released in February 2009 from a clinical trial of PRO 2000 (Indevus Pharmaceuticals), a vaginal-microbicide gel (0.5%), sparked hope that it might provide modest protection against HIV. The results of a larger trial released in December 2009 showed that PRO 2000 was safe as administered, but was ineffective in reducing the risk of HIV infection. That trial (MDP 301) was sponsored by the Microbicides Development Programme. MDP 301 was conducted in South Africa, Tanzania, Uganda and Zambia with more than 9,300 women volunteers. No significant difference was found in the number of women who contracted HIV in the
Aspirin Linked to Lower Pancreatic Cancer Risk [SEP] Cancer prevention // use of aspirin can reduce the development of colorectal tumors by 35% in patients with a pre-existing history of polyps 2003 - Results from the Prostate Cancer Prevention Trial (PCPT) Released 2004 - August: “Decades of Progress 1983 to 2003” Published. The first 20 years of the NCI Community Clinical Oncology Program (CCOP), the precursor to the NCI Community Oncology Research Program (NCORP), are documented 2004 - Adenoma Prevention with Celecoxib (APC) Trial Suspended suspended based on an increased incidence of major cardiovascular events in participants taking celecoxib (Celebrex®) 2005 - Results of the Breast Cancer Prevention Trial (BCPT) Updated.
Aspirin Linked to Lower Pancreatic Cancer Risk [SEP] Aspirin // outweighs the potential harm of an increase in gastrointestinal hemorrhage. The WHI study said regular low dose (75 or 81 mg) aspirin female users had a 25% lower risk of death from cardiovascular disease and a 14% lower risk of death from any cause. Low-dose aspirin use was also associated with a trend toward lower risk of cardiovascular events, and lower aspirin doses (75 or 81 mg/day) may optimize efficacy and safety for people requiring aspirin for long-term prevention. In children with Kawasaki disease, aspirin is taken at dosages based on body weight, initially four times a day for up
Aspirin Linked to Lower Pancreatic Cancer Risk [SEP] Cancer prevention // due to the cardiovascular and gastrointestinal side effects they cause overall harm when used for prevention. Aspirin has been found to reduce the risk of death from cancer by about 7%. COX-2 inhibitor may decrease the rate of polyp formation in people with familial adenomatous polyposis however are associated with the same adverse effects as NSAIDs. Daily use of tamoxifen or raloxifene has been demonstrated to reduce the risk of developing breast cancer in high-risk women. The benefit verses harm for 5-alpha-reductase inhibitor such as finasteride is not clear. Vitamins have not been found to be effective at preventing cancer,
Aspirin Linked to Lower Pancreatic Cancer Risk [SEP] Cancer // a few circumstances. In the general population, NSAIDs reduce the risk of colorectal cancer; however, due to cardiovascular and gastrointestinal side effects, they cause overall harm when used for prevention. Aspirin has been found to reduce the risk of death from cancer by about 7%. COX-2 inhibitors may decrease the rate of polyp formation in people with familial adenomatous polyposis; however, it is associated with the same adverse effects as NSAIDs. Daily use of tamoxifen or raloxifene reduce the risk of breast cancer in high-risk women. The benefit versus harm for 5-alpha-reductase inhibitor such as finasteride is not clear. Vitamin
Aspirin Linked to Lower Pancreatic Cancer Risk [SEP] Aspirin // 70 years old, found no difference in preventing cardiovascular events, but a higher risk of serious bleeding. Aspirin appears to offer little benefit to those at lower risk of heart attack or stroke—for instance, those without a history of these events or with pre-existing disease. Some studies recommend aspirin on a case-by-case basis, while others have suggested the risks of other events, such as gastrointestinal bleeding, were enough to outweigh any potential benefit, and recommended against using aspirin for primary prevention entirely. Aspirin has also been suggested as a component of a polypill for prevention of cardiovascular disease. Complicating the
Aspirin Linked to Lower Pancreatic Cancer Risk [SEP] Aspirin // is available as a generic medication. Aspirin is used in the treatment of a number of conditions, including fever, pain, rheumatic fever, and inflammatory diseases, such as rheumatoid arthritis, pericarditis, and Kawasaki disease. Lower doses of aspirin have also been shown to reduce the risk of death from a heart attack, or the risk of stroke in people who are at high risk or who have cardiovascular disease, but not in elderly people who are otherwise healthy. There is some evidence that aspirin is effective at preventing colorectal cancer, though the mechanisms of this effect are unclear. In the United
Aspirin Linked to Lower Pancreatic Cancer Risk [SEP] Aspirin // and for what indications this combined therapy should be continued after surgery. U.S. guidelines recommend DAPT for at least 12 months, while EU guidelines recommend DAPT for 6–12 months after a drug-eluting stent placement. However, they agree that aspirin be continued indefinitely after DAPT is complete. Aspirin is thought to reduce the overall risk of both getting cancer and dying from cancer. This effect is particularly beneficial for colorectal cancer (CRC) but must be taken for at least 10–20 years to see this benefit. It may also slightly reduce the risk of endometrial cancer, breast cancer, and prostate cancer. Some
Aspirin Linked to Lower Pancreatic Cancer Risk [SEP] Colorectal cancer // is recommended. Physical exercise is associated with a modest reduction in colon but not rectal cancer risk. High levels of physical activity reduce the risk of colon cancer by about 21%. Sitting regularly for prolonged periods is associated with higher mortality from colon cancer. The risk is not negated by regular exercise, though it is lowered. Aspirin and celecoxib appear to decrease the risk of colorectal cancer in those at high risk. Aspirin is recommended in those who are 50 to 60 years old, do not have an increased risk of bleeding, and are at risk for cardiovascular disease to
Aspirin Linked to Lower Pancreatic Cancer Risk [SEP] Aspirin // heart disease, aspirin has been thought to decrease the risk of a non-fatal myocardial infarction but not to change the overall risk of death. One study found that among those who have never had a heart attack or stroke, taking aspirin daily for 1 year prevents 1 in 1,667 from having a non-fatal heart attack or stroke, but caused 1 in 3,333 to have a non-fatal bleeding event. However, the study population were at relatively higher risk than those who had never had a heart attack or stroke. A large trial from 2018 in healthy people who were at least
Aspirin Linked to Lower Pancreatic Cancer Risk [SEP] Glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonist // pancreatitis or cancer, a 2017 study found that recent prescription of incretins was associated with an increased risk of pancreatic cancer over non-insulin anti diabetic drugs (NIADs). Approved GLP-1 agonists: Under investigation: These agents work by activating the GLP-1R, rather than inhibiting the breakdown of GLP-1 as do DPP-4 inhibitors, and are generally considered more potent. As of 2017 it was unclear if they affect a person's risk of death. A JAMA article meta-analysis in 2018 (covering studies concerning GLP-1 agonists, DPP-4 inhibitors, and SGLT2 inhibitors) showed GLP-1 agonists were associated with lower stroke risk than controls. Glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor
U.S. Panel Questions Prostate Screening [SEP] United States Preventive Services Task Force // In the current recommendation published in 2012, the Task Force recommended against prostate-specific antigen (PSA)-based screening for prostate cancer. The Task Force gave PCa screening a D recommendation. A final statement published in 2018 recommends basing the decision to screen on shared decision making in those 55 to 69 years old. It continues to recommend against screening in those 70 and older. From 1984 to 1989, the task force's stated purpose was to "develop recommendations for primary care clinicians on the appropriate content of periodic health examinations." United States Preventive Services Task Force The United States Preventive Services Task Force
U.S. Panel Questions Prostate Screening [SEP] Prostate cancer screening // indicator of prostate cancer, but may also detect prostatitis or benign prostatic hyperplasia. A 2018 United States Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) draft reversed the prior opposition to PSA screening. The draft recommendations suggest shared decision-making regarding screening in healthy males 55 to 69 years of age. The final recommendation for that age group states screening should only be done in those who wish it. In those 70 and over, screening remains not recommended. Screening with PSA has been associated with a number of harms including over-diagnosis, increased prostate biopsy with associated harms, increased anxiety, and unneeded treatment. On the
U.S. Panel Questions Prostate Screening [SEP] Cancer screening // inadequate for intercourse). The U.S. Preventative Services Task Force (USPSTF) recommends against prostate-specific antigen (PSA) based screening for prostate cancer finding, "there is a very small potential benefit and significant potential harms" and concluding, "while everyone wants to help prevent deaths from prostate cancer, current methods of PSA screening and treatment of screen-detected cancer are not the answer." Most North American medical groups recommend individualized decisions about screening, taking into consideration the risks, benefits, and the patients' personal preferences. Screening studies for lung cancer have only been done in high risk populations, such as smokers and workers with occupational exposure
U.S. Panel Questions Prostate Screening [SEP] Prostate cancer screening // your risk factors and weighing your personal preferences." A study in Europe resulted in only a small decline in death rates and concluded that 48 men would need to be treated to save one life. But of the 47 men who were treated, most would be unable to ever again function sexually and would require more frequent trips to the bathroom. Aggressive marketing of screening tests by drug companies has also generated controversy as has the advocacy of testing by the American Urological Association. One commentator has observed: “[I]t is prudent only to use a single PSA determination as a
U.S. Panel Questions Prostate Screening [SEP] Active surveillance of prostate cancer // of men undergo curative intervention after receiving a prostate cancer diagnosis. A range of estimates of over diagnosis between 23% and 42% have been reported based on U.S. incidence. Depending upon the age at diagnosis, and the disease characteristics, the likelihood that a screen detected cancer has been over diagnosed can vary from below 5% to more than 75%. An unintended consequence of new technology is its use among those least likely to benefit. A disturbing trend has been noted in men with newly diagnosed prostate cancer treated with robotic surgery and newer forms of radiotherapy (IMRT). A 2013 study
U.S. Panel Questions Prostate Screening [SEP] Prostate cancer screening // 1410 men would need to be screened and 48 additional cases of prostate cancer would need to be treated to prevent just one death from prostate cancer within 9 years. A study published in the European Journal of Cancer (October 2009) documented that prostate cancer screening reduced prostate cancer mortality by 37 percent. By utilizing a control group of men from Northern Ireland, where PSA screening is infrequent, the research showed this substantial reduction in prostate cancer deaths when compared to men who were PSA tested as part of the ERSPC study. A study published in the New England Journal
U.S. Panel Questions Prostate Screening [SEP] Prostate cancer // a decision should be made by the person in question based on the potential risks and benefits. In general, they concluded, "it is uncertain whether the benefits associated with PSA testing for prostate cancer screening are worth the harms associated with screening and subsequent unnecessary treatment." American Urological Association (AUA 2013) guidelines call for weighing the benefits of preventing prostate cancer mortality in 1 man for every 1,000 men screened over a ten-year period against the known harms associated with diagnostic tests and treatment. The AUA recommends offering screening to those 55 to 69 be based on shared decision making,
U.S. Panel Questions Prostate Screening [SEP] Prostate cancer screening // of Medicine in 2009 found that over a 7 to 10-year period, "screening did not reduce the death rate in men 55 and over." Former screening proponents, including some from Stanford University, have come out against routine testing. In February 2010, the American Cancer Society urged "more caution in using the test." And the American College of Preventive Medicine concluded that "there was insufficient evidence to recommend routine screening." A further study, the NHS Comparison Arm for ProtecT (CAP), as part of the Prostate testing for cancer and Treatment (ProtecT) study, randomized GP practices with 460,000 men aged 50–69 at
U.S. Panel Questions Prostate Screening [SEP] Prostate cancer // about the positives and negatives. The United States Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) suggests the decision whether or not to have PSA screening be based on decision making between the patient and physician for men 55 to 69 years of age. USPSTF recommends against PSA screening for males who are age 70 or older. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention shared USPSTF's prior conclusion. The American Society of Clinical Oncology and the American College of Physicians discourage screening for those who are expected to live less than ten to fifteen years, while in those with a greater life expectancy
U.S. Panel Questions Prostate Screening [SEP] Overscreening // risks outweigh the potential benefits. Guidelines from the American Urological Association, and the American Cancer Society recommend that men be informed of the risks and benefits of screening. The American Society of Clinical Oncology recommends screening be discouraged in those who are expected to live less than ten years, while in those with a life expectancy of greater than ten years a decision should be made by the person in question based on the potential risks and benefits. In general, they conclude that based on recent research, "it is uncertain whether the benefits associated with PSA testing for prostate cancer
In January 2017, Dr. Anthony Fauci predicted a serious pandemic during U.S. President Donald Trump's tenure in office. [SEP] Anthony S. Fauci // universities in the United States and abroad. On October 16, 2014, in a United States Congressional hearing regarding the Ebola virus crisis, Dr. Fauci, who has been speaking on the issue, regarding "screening" for weeks, and as the director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID), testified and warned that they were still some distance from producing sufficient quantities for widespread trials. "While NIAID is an active participant in the global effort to address the public health emergency occurring in west Africa, it is important to recognize that we are still in the early stages of understanding
In January 2017, Dr. Anthony Fauci predicted a serious pandemic during U.S. President Donald Trump's tenure in office. [SEP] Anthony S. Fauci // how infection with the Ebola virus can be treated and prevented," Fauci said. Dr. Fauci also remarked in the hearing: "As we continue to expedite research while enforcing high safety and efficacy standards, the implementation of the public health measures already known to contain prior Ebola virus outbreaks and the implementation of treatment strategies such as fluid and electrolyte replacement are essential to preventing additional infections, treating those already infected, protecting healthcare providers, and ultimately bringing this epidemic to an end." Anthony S. Fauci Anthony Stephen "Tony" Fauci () (born December 24, 1940) is an American immunologist who has made
In January 2017, Dr. Anthony Fauci predicted a serious pandemic during U.S. President Donald Trump's tenure in office. [SEP] Anthony S. Fauci // of NIAID, which has the responsibility for an extensive research portfolio of basic and applied research on infectious and immune-mediated illnesses. He played a significant role in the early 2000s in creating the President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief and in driving development of biodefense drugs and vaccines following the 9/11 terrorist attacks. Fauci has made a number of basic scientific observations that contribute to the current understanding of the regulation of the human immune response, and is recognized for delineating the mechanisms whereby immunosuppressive agents adapt to the human immune response. He has developed therapies for formerly fatal diseases
In January 2017, Dr. Anthony Fauci predicted a serious pandemic during U.S. President Donald Trump's tenure in office. [SEP] Anthony S. Fauci // Anthony S. Fauci Anthony Stephen "Tony" Fauci () (born December 24, 1940) is an American immunologist who has made substantial contributions to HIV/AIDS research and other immunodeficiencies, both as a scientist and as the head of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID). Anthony Stephen Fauci was born on December 24, 1940, in Brooklyn, New York, to Stephen A. Fauci and Eugenia A. Fauci, who owned a pharmacy in which his father worked as the pharmacist, his mother and sister worked the register, and Fauci delivered prescriptions. He is of Italian descent and grew up Catholic. He graduated
In January 2017, Dr. Anthony Fauci predicted a serious pandemic during U.S. President Donald Trump's tenure in office. [SEP] Ali S. Khan // hemorrhagic fever, monkeypox, Rift Valley fever, avian influenza, severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS), the Asian tsunami, and the initial public health response to Hurricane Katrina in New Orleans. In 2016 Khan published "The Next Pandemic" (with William Patrick). In it he recounts some of his experiences responding to outbreaks all over the world, including many of those mentioned above. Besides his personal experiences, he also provides a great deal of background information for readers interested in public health and emerging diseases. Ali S. Khan Rear Admiral Ali S. Khan is an American practicing physician and former Director of the Office
In January 2017, Dr. Anthony Fauci predicted a serious pandemic during U.S. President Donald Trump's tenure in office. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic in the United States // department’s 19 key posts. The president's nominee, Kansas Gov. Kathleen Sebelius, was still awaiting confirmation from the U.S. Senate until passing on April 28. The President has not yet made appointments to either the Commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration, the Surgeon General, or the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The current acting Surgeon General, Steven K. Galson, is also currently serving as the Acting Assistant Secretary for Health. On April 30, it was reported that an aide to Steven Chu, the US Energy Secretary, had fallen ill from the virus after helping arrange President
In January 2017, Dr. Anthony Fauci predicted a serious pandemic during U.S. President Donald Trump's tenure in office. [SEP] David Meade (author) // new predictions for that month, such as Nibiru eclipsing the sun on October 5 and that several people would levitate into the sky (including current U.S. President Donald Trump and Vice President Mike Pence) followed by a nuclear attack by North Korea, China, and Russia on the United States. He predicted other events for that month, such as a series of magnitude 9.8 earthquakes; that the Earth's pole would shift by 30 degrees; that the United States would be split in half; and that Barack Obama would be elected as U.S. President for an illegal third term. He also predicted
In January 2017, Dr. Anthony Fauci predicted a serious pandemic during U.S. President Donald Trump's tenure in office. [SEP] PolitiFact // corporate conspiracy". These claims were made in the midst of the Ebola virus epidemic in West Africa when four cases were diagnosed in the United States in travelers from West Africa and nurses who treated them. PolitiFact wrote, "The claims – all wrong – distorted the debate about a serious public health issue." PolitiFact's 2015 Lie of the Year was the "various statements" made by 2016 Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump. Politifact found that 76% of Trump's statements that they reviewed were rated "Mostly False," "False" or "Pants on Fire". Statements that were rated "Pants on Fire" included his assertion
In January 2017, Dr. Anthony Fauci predicted a serious pandemic during U.S. President Donald Trump's tenure in office. [SEP] Political positions of Donald Trump // crisis "would go against all the expert advice being offered," with doctors warning "that isolating West Africa would only make the Ebola outbreak much worse, potentially denying help and supplies from getting in," and possibly destabilizing the countries and contributing to the disease's spread outside West Africa. On August 3, 2016, Trump called the Zika virus outbreak in Florida "a big problem". He expressed his support for Florida Governor Rick Scott's handling of the crisis, saying that he's "doing a fantastic job". When asked if Congress should convene an emergency session to approve Zika funding, Trump answered, "I would say
In January 2017, Dr. Anthony Fauci predicted a serious pandemic during U.S. President Donald Trump's tenure in office. [SEP] Joseph Masci // Task Force in the Office of the Mayor, City of New York. In 2001, he was appointed chairman of the HHC Emergency Preparedness council and became an advisor on bioterrorism to its president. He left these positions in 2010, and began to refocus his work on AIDS, TB and later on Ebola. Masci has been on the faculty of the Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai since 1982, Since 2003, he has been a Professor of Medicine, infectious disease. From 1999 to 2002, he was the director of second year curriculum at Mount Sinai. He has served as a
China agrees to WHO sending experts to study virus. [SEP] Fujian flu // ministry tells us what's going on and shares viruses on a regular basis, we will be doing diagnostics on strains that are old." In November 2006, China and WHO traded favors over their H5N1 disagreements with a face-saving WHO apology and China promising to share more avian influenza virus samples. Also in November, Margaret Chan, a former top government health official for Hong Kong, was made Director-General elect of the WHO. The Chinese government said they "would fully support her work in the WHO so that she could wholeheartedly carry out her responsibility and serve the health cause of the
China agrees to WHO sending experts to study virus. [SEP] Influenza A virus subtype H7N9 // J. Craig Venter Institute had used their sequences to develop US-funded H7N9 vaccine without offering to collaborate with the Chinese team, according to Nature. They believed, the usage of their data was initially not handled in the spirit of the GISAID sharing mechanism, which requires scientists who use the sequences to credit and propose collaboration with those who deposited the data in GISAID. Nature cited a Chinese official who concluded that this situation was quickly mitigated once communication channels were opened and the parties agreed to collaborate, thanks to GISAID president Peter Bogner. Despite concerns that vaccination of poultry against
China agrees to WHO sending experts to study virus. [SEP] Influenza A virus subtype H7N9 // the new viral strain, and supplied these synthesized genes to the CDC. The scientific community has praised China for its transparency and rapid response to the outbreak of H7N9. In an editorial on April 24, 2013, the journal "Nature" said "China deserves credit for its rapid response to the outbreaks of H7N9 avian influenza, and its early openness in the reporting and sharing of data." This, in spite of initial worries by Chinese scientists and officials that they might lose credit for their work in isolating and sequencing the novel H7N9 virus, after learning that pharmaceutical company Novartis and the
China agrees to WHO sending experts to study virus. [SEP] Louise Chow // of Finance of the Republic of China on Taiwan. She studied agricultural chemistry at National Taiwan University, graduating in 1965 before moving to California to pursue graduate studies in chemistry at the California Institute of Technology, earning her Ph.D in 1973. She then undertook post-doctoral training at the University of California, San Francisco, researching the monkey tumor virus SV40. She and her husband, fellow scientist Thomas Broker, joined Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory in 1975. It was here that, in the process of studying the genetic organization, DNA transcription, and RNA translation of adenoviruses, she and her colleagues discovered RNA splicing
China agrees to WHO sending experts to study virus. [SEP] Responses to the West African Ebola virus epidemic // BioProtection Systems of Ames, Iowa to develop the product for use in humans. By 20 October, Canada had pledged 65.4 million Canadian dollars to the fight against Ebola. As part of its contribution, Canada has deployed two mobile diagnostic laboratories in Sierra Leone, and shipped the first batch of an experimental Ebola vaccine to the WHO in Geneva. In August, China sent their second donation of supplies to Guinea, Sierra Leone, and Liberia. The supplies, worth 30 million yuan (4.9 million US dollars), include medical protective clothes, disinfectants, thermo-detectors, and medicines. China has also sent three expert teams composed of
China agrees to WHO sending experts to study virus. [SEP] Responses to the West African Ebola virus epidemic // in the countries are working with local staff, according to Xi. Xi also spoke highly of the measures taken by the United Nations and WHO and its professional institutions, and called for more assistance and input for medical and health services in African countries. On 25 September, a second mobile lab landed at Lungi Airport in Sierra Leone. The lab will assist the 29 CDC workers experts from China already in the region to help fight the disease. On 24 October, China announced a fourth round of emergency funding bringing its commitments now to a total of 500 million yuan
China agrees to WHO sending experts to study virus. [SEP] Health in China // Another major challenge is the epidemic of HIV/AIDS, a key priority for China. The staff of the WHO Office in China are working with their national counterparts in the following areas: In addition, WHO technical experts in specialty areas can be made available on a short-term basis, when requested by the Chinese government. China is an active, contributing member of WHO, and has made valuable contributions to global and regional health policy. Technical experts from China have contributed to WHO through their membership on various WHO technical expert advisory committees and groups. Health in China An emphasis on public health
China agrees to WHO sending experts to study virus. [SEP] Influenza A virus subtype H7N9 // that the Chinese government would extend the ban for four months. The health minister also said that they plan to prevent diseased birds from entering the market by setting up a facility where imported poultry can be quarantined to ensure they are disease-free. The WHO does not advise against travel to China at this point in time, as there is no evidence of human-to-human transmission of the virus. On April 9, 2013, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) activated its Emergency Operations Center (EOC) in Atlanta at Level II, the second-highest level of alert. Activation was prompted because
China agrees to WHO sending experts to study virus. [SEP] Yi Guan // Yi Guan Yi Guan is a Chinese virologist who, in 2014, was ranked as 11th in the world by Thomson Reuters (now known as Clarivate Analytics) among global researchers in the field of microbiology. His research on the viral respiratory disease SARS allowed the Chinese government to successfully avert the 2004 outbreak of this disease. He is the current Director (China affairs) of the State Key Laboratory for Emerging Infectious Diseases University of Hong Kong. In early 2017, Guan warned that the H7N9 influenza virus "poses the greatest threat to humanity than any other in the past 100 years." Guan
China agrees to WHO sending experts to study virus. [SEP] Yi Guan // received his MD degree from the Medical College of Nanchang University (also known as Jiangxi Medical College), his advanced medical degree from Peking Union Medical College (also known as Beijing Union Medical College), and his PhD from the University of Hong Kong. Focusing his research on influenza viruses throughout his career, Professor Guan has identified all the major precursors and transmission pathways of the H5N1 variant that circulates in Southeast Asia, Europe and Africa and has provided most of the World Health Organization recommended pre-pandemic H5N1 vaccines strains. Guan has, also, initiated the systematic study of H9N2 viruses, which, along
How barbershops could help lower blood pressure [SEP] Barbershop Quartet (health outreach program) // and Prevention and Mount Sinai Hospital. The Barber Shop Quartet works with local hospitals to provide doctors, nurses, and other volunteers to free health education and screenings for African American men for diabetes, hypertension, and prostate and colon cancers. Mobile medical units parked at participating barbershops throughout Harlem were the catalyst for the program’s name. The Barber Shop Quartet also grants free follow-up care to those whose screenings have detected a health issue. Streamlined in 2008, current partners of The Barber Shop Quartet include St. Luke's Roosevelt Hospital, New York University School of Medicine/Center for Healthful Behavior Change, the Albert
How barbershops could help lower blood pressure [SEP] Barber // be used for public debates or voicing public concerns. Most modern barbershops have special comfortable barber chairs and special equipment for rinsing and washing hair and big Hair dryers that cover your whole head. In some barbershops people can read magazines or watch TV while the barber works. Despite the economic recession in 2008, the barbershop industry has seen continued positive growth. Recently there was a trial that had barbers check high blood pressure in barbershops and have a pharmacist meet and treat the patient in the barbershop, with positive results. In 2018 Arthur Rubinoff opened a museum with barber's
How barbershops could help lower blood pressure [SEP] Barbershop Quartet (health outreach program) // efforts in beauty parlors, Dr. Petersen launched a similar program for men, recognizing that on site screening in the friendly neighborhood setting of the barber shop would help to eliminate key barriers to accessing services. Barbershop Quartet (health outreach program) The Barber Shop Quartet in New York City’s Harlem neighborhood was founded in 2007 as an outreach program of the Men’s Ministry at Abyssinian Baptist Church. The Barber Shop Quartet provides free men’s health screenings for hypertension, diabetes, prostate cancer and colon cancer. Abyssinian Baptist Church, Harlem’s largest church with more than 4,000 congregants, initially partnered with Harlem Hospital Center
How barbershops could help lower blood pressure [SEP] Barbershop Quartet (health outreach program) // Barbershop Quartet (health outreach program) The Barber Shop Quartet in New York City’s Harlem neighborhood was founded in 2007 as an outreach program of the Men’s Ministry at Abyssinian Baptist Church. The Barber Shop Quartet provides free men’s health screenings for hypertension, diabetes, prostate cancer and colon cancer. Abyssinian Baptist Church, Harlem’s largest church with more than 4,000 congregants, initially partnered with Harlem Hospital Center and St. Luke’s Roosevelt Hospital and received additional funding from the New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene to implement this program. Other initiating partners include the Ralph Lauren Center for Cancer Care
How barbershops could help lower blood pressure [SEP] Mindfulness // 2013 statement from the American Heart Association said that, when it comes to lowering blood pressure, that behavioral therapies, transcendental meditation, other meditation techniques, yoga, other relaxation therapies, and biofeedback approaches generally had modest, mixed, or no consistent evidence demonstrating their efficacy. Exercise-based regimens, such as aerobics, had relatively stronger supporting evidence. Nevertheless, MBSR can have a beneficial effect helping with the depression and psychological distress associated with chronic illness. Meditation also may allow you to modulate pain stronger. When participants in research were exposed to pain from heating, the brainsscans of the mindfulness meditation group (by use of functional
How barbershops could help lower blood pressure [SEP] Management of hypertension // intake adjustment for each of these may benefit adults with high blood pressure. While weight loss diets reduce body weight and blood pressure, it is unclear if they reduce negative outcomes. Some programs aimed to reduce psychological stress such as biofeedback or transcendental meditation may be reasonable add-ons to other treatment to reduce hypertension. However several techniques, namely yoga, relaxation and other forms of meditation do not appear to reduce blood pressure, and there are major methodological limitations with many studies of stress reduction techniques. There is no clear evidence that the modest reduction in blood pressure with stress reduction
How barbershops could help lower blood pressure [SEP] Prehypertension // fruits and vegetables (aim for half of your meal including non-starchy vegetables, like leafy greens, beans, carrots, cucumbers, tomatoes, etc.), whole grains, low in refined grains (e.g., white breads and baked goods made from white flour), low in saturated fats ( e.g., fatty cuts of meat or fried foods) and low in sodium (homemade or minimally processed) have been demonstrated through randomized controlled studies to significantly lower blood pressure. These types of diet changes alone can lower blood pressure greater than any single drug therapy. The effects of both diet and sodium reduction work together, meaning the more you improve
How barbershops could help lower blood pressure [SEP] Prehypertension // in blood pressure. Recent research has found that low carbohydrate diets can lower weight and blood pressure in manners similar to medications. Foods rich in potassium include banana, papaya, sweet potato, dark leafy greens, avocado, prune juice, tomato juice, oranges, milk, yogurt, dried beans such as navy, pinto and black beans, chickpeas, lentils, beef, pork, fish, nuts and seeds such as pistachio, almonds, pumpkin, flax and sunflower seeds. Careful monitoring for signs of end-organ damage or progression to hypertension is an important part of the follow-up of patients with prehypertension. Any change in blood pressure classification should be confirmed on
How barbershops could help lower blood pressure [SEP] Barbershop Quartet (health outreach program) // Einstein College of Medicine Department of Epidemiology and Population Health, Division of Community Collaboration and Implementation Science, and the Albert Einstein Cancer Center, Cancer Prevention & Control Research Program. In 2007, Dr. Bert Petersen, Jr., a cancer surgeon and member of Harlem’s Abyssinian Baptist Church, recognized that African-American men living in urban areas undergo disproportionate suffering from chronic diseases. When paired with the reduced likelihood of receiving proper care and treatment for those conditions, mortality was high. Dr. Petersen approached church leaders to assist him in creating a program to address these health disparities. Having previously conducted breast cancer education
How barbershops could help lower blood pressure [SEP] DASH diet // of sodium, for discretionary use. Alcohol was limited to no more than two beverages per day, and caffeine intake was limited to no more than three caffeinated beverages. The DASH trial showed that dietary patterns can and do affect blood pressure in the high normal BP to moderately hypertensive adult population (systolic < 180 mm Hg & diastolic of 80 to 95 mm Hg). Respectively, the DASH or “combination” diet lowered blood pressures by an average of 5.5 and 3.0 mm Hg for systolic and diastolic, compared with the control diet. The minority portion of the study sample and the
Connecticut confirms 4th case of measles. [SEP] Measles // and was taking immunosuppressive drug for another condition. The drugs suppressed the woman's immunity to measles, and the woman became infected with measles; she did not develop a rash, but contracted pneumonia, which caused her death. In June 2017, the Maine Health and Environmental Testing Laboratory confirmed a case of measles in Franklin County. This instance marks the first case of measles in 20 years for the state of Maine. In 2018 one case occurred in Portland, Oregon, with 500 people exposed; 40 of them lacked immunity to the virus and were being monitored by county health officials as of
Connecticut confirms 4th case of measles. [SEP] Vaccine controversies // of these cases (117 cases [66%]) were part of a large multi-state outbreak linked to Disneyland in California, continued from 2014. Analysis by the CDC scientists showed that the measles virus type in this outbreak (B3) was identical to the virus type that caused the large measles outbreak in the Philippines in 2014. On July 2, 2015, the first confirmed death from measles in 12 years was recorded. An immunocompromised woman in Washington State was infected and later died of pneumonia due to measles. In spring 2017, a measles outbreak occurred in Minnesota. As of June 16, 78 cases of
Connecticut confirms 4th case of measles. [SEP] Measles // July 2, 2018. By August 2018, 102 cases of measles had been reported throughout the United States. The spread of measles had been interrupted in Brazil as of 2016, with the last known case twelve months earlier. This last case was in the state of Ceará. Brazil won a measles elimination certificate by the Pan American Health Organization in 2016, but the Ministry of Health has proclaimed that the country has struggled to keep this certificate, since two outbreaks had already been identified in 2018, one in the state of Amazonas and another one in Roraima, in addition to cases
Connecticut confirms 4th case of measles. [SEP] Epidemiology of measles // schedule or discourage vaccination, among them Bob Sears and Jay Gordon for reducing vaccination rates and thus weakening herd immunity, and creating a situation in which an outbreak was more likely. California passed a mandatory vaccination law in June 2015. In Spring 2015, a death of an immune-suppressed woman in Washington State caused by measles was diagnosed after autopsy. This was the first U.S. measles death since 2003. In spring 2017, a measles outbreak occurred in Minnesota. As of June 16, 78 cases of measles had been confirmed in the state, 71 were unvaccinated and 65 were Somali-Americans. The outbreak
Connecticut confirms 4th case of measles. [SEP] Vaccine controversies // refused to have their children vaccinated. In 2000, measles was declared eliminated from the United States because internal transmission had been interrupted for one year; remaining reported cases were due to importation. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) reported that the three biggest outbreaks of measles in 2013 were attributed to clusters of people who were unvaccinated due to their philosophical or religious beliefs. As of August 2013, three pockets of outbreak—New York City, North Carolina, and Texas—contributed to 64% of the 159 cases of measles reported in 16 states. The number of cases in 2014 quadrupled to
Connecticut confirms 4th case of measles. [SEP] Measles // in other states (Rio de Janeiro, Rio Grande do Sul, Pará, São Paulo and Rondônia), totaling 1053 confirmed cases until August 1, 2018. In these outbreaks, and in most other cases, the contagion was related to the importation of the virus, especially from Venezuela. This was confirmed by the genotype of the virus (D8) that was identified, which is the same that circulates in Venezuela. In the Vietnamese measles epidemic in spring of 2014, an estimated 8,500 measles cases were reported as of April 19, with 114 fatalities; as of May 30, 21,639 suspected measles cases had been reported, with
Connecticut confirms 4th case of measles. [SEP] Epidemiology of measles // cases and four deaths, representing almost six-times the number of cases in 2016. The number of cases for 2013 through 2016 were 2211, 1674, 251 and 844. Beginning in April 2009 there was a large outbreak of measles in Bulgaria, with 23,791 cases, including 24 deaths, reported up to 28 July 2010. From Bulgaria, the strain was carried to Germany, Turkey, Greece, Macedonia, and other European countries. Between January 2008 and May 2012, 22,000 measles cases were reported in France. 5,000 patients were hospitalised including 1,023 with severe pneumonia, 27 with encephalitis and/or myelitis, and 10 died. An awareness campaign
Connecticut confirms 4th case of measles. [SEP] Epidemiology of measles // 1 and April 25, 2008, a total of 64 confirmed measles cases were preliminarily reported in the United States to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the most reported by this date since 2001, and the highest total number in six years. Of the 64 cases, 54 were associated with importation of measles from other countries into the United States, and 63 of the 64 patients were unvaccinated or had unknown or undocumented vaccination status. By July 9, 2008, a total of 127 cases were reported in 15 states, making it the largest US outbreak since 1997 (when 138
Connecticut confirms 4th case of measles. [SEP] Measles // October 2014 and March 2015, a measles outbreak in the German capital of Berlin resulted in at least 782 cases. In 2017 numbers continued to increase in Europe to 21,315 cases, with 35 deaths. The United States was declared free of circulating measles in 2000 with 911 cases from 2001 to 2011. In 2014 the CDC said endemic measles, rubella, and congenital rubella syndrome has not returned to the United States. Occasional measles outbreaks persist because of cases imported from abroad, of which more than half are the result of unvaccinated U.S. residents who are infected abroad and infect others
Connecticut confirms 4th case of measles. [SEP] Epidemiology of measles // unvaccinated or whose vaccination status was unknown accounted for 122 cases. Some of these were under the age when vaccination is recommended, but in 63 cases, the vaccinations had been refused for religious or philosophical reasons. On May 24, 2011, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reported that the United States has had 118 measles cases so far this year. The 118 cases were reported by 23 states and New York City between Jan 1 and May 20. Of the 118 cases, 105 (89%) were associated with cases abroad and 105 (89%) of the 118 patients had not been
Opossums stop the spread of Lyme disease because they kill up to 4,000 ticks a week. [SEP] Lyme disease // Prevention includes efforts to prevent tick bites such as by wearing clothing to cover the arms and legs, and using DEET-based insect repellents. Using pesticides to reduce tick numbers may also be effective. Ticks can be removed using tweezers. If the removed tick was full of blood, a single dose of doxycycline may be used to prevent development of infection, but is not generally recommended since development of infection is rare. If an infection develops, a number of antibiotics are effective, including doxycycline, amoxicillin, and cefuroxime. Standard treatment usually lasts for two or three weeks. Some people develop a fever
Opossums stop the spread of Lyme disease because they kill up to 4,000 ticks a week. [SEP] Lyme disease // for the bacteria that causes Lyme to travel from within the tick into its saliva. If a deer tick that is sufficiently likely to be carrying "Borrelia" is found attached to a person and removed, and if the tick has been attached for 36 hours or is engorged, a single dose of doxycycline administered within the 72 hours after removal may reduce the risk of Lyme disease. It is not generally recommended for all people bitten, as development of infection is rare: about 50 bitten people would have to be treated this way to prevent one case of erythema migrans
Opossums stop the spread of Lyme disease because they kill up to 4,000 ticks a week. [SEP] Lyme disease // effective in the prevention of tick bites. In Europe known reservoirs of "Borrelia burgdorferi" were 9 small mammals, 7 medium-sized mammals and 16 species of birds (including passerines, sea-birds and pheasants). These animals seem to transmit spirochetes to ticks and thus participate in the natural circulation of B. burgdorferi in Europe. The house mouse is also suspected as well as other species of small rodents, particularly in Eastern Europe and Russia. A recombinant vaccine against Lyme disease, based on the outer surface protein A (ospA) of "B. burgdorferi", was developed by SmithKline Beecham. In clinical trials involving more than 10,000
Opossums stop the spread of Lyme disease because they kill up to 4,000 ticks a week. [SEP] Virginia opossum // opossums that live near urban environments. Though sometimes mistakenly considered to be rats, opossums are not closely related to rodents, or other placentalian mammals. They rarely transmit diseases to humans, and are surprisingly resistant to rabies, most likely because they have lower body temperatures than most placental mammals. In addition, opossums limit the spread of Lyme disease, as they successfully kill off most disease-carrying ticks that feed on them. The opossum was once a favorite game animal in the United States, in particular in the southern regions which have a large body of recipes and folklore relating to it. Their
Opossums stop the spread of Lyme disease because they kill up to 4,000 ticks a week. [SEP] Lyme disease // be reduced by greatly reducing the deer population on which the adult ticks depend for feeding and reproduction. Lyme disease cases fell following deer eradication on an island, Monhegan, Maine and following deer control in Mumford Cove, Connecticut. It is worth noting that eliminating deer may lead to a temporary increase in tick density. For example, in the U.S., reducing the deer population to levels of 8 to 10 per square mile (from the current levels of 60 or more deer per square mile in the areas of the country with the highest Lyme disease rates), may reduce tick numbers
Opossums stop the spread of Lyme disease because they kill up to 4,000 ticks a week. [SEP] Lyme disease // 36 hours can reduce transmission rates. Folk remedies for tick removal tend to be ineffective, offer no advantages in preventing the transfer of disease, and may increase the risks of transmission or infection. The best method is simply to pull the tick out with tweezers as close to the skin as possible, without twisting, and avoiding crushing the body of the tick or removing the head from the tick's body. The risk of infection increases with the time the tick is attached, and if a tick is attached for less than 24 hours, infection is unlikely. However, since these ticks
Opossums stop the spread of Lyme disease because they kill up to 4,000 ticks a week. [SEP] Lyme disease // are very small, especially in the nymph stage, prompt detection is quite difficult. The Australasian Society of Clinical Immunology and Allergy does not recommend the use of tweezers where the person may be allergic as anaphylaxis could result. Instead they recommend killing the tick first by using a product to rapidly freeze the tick to prevent it from injecting more allergen-containing saliva and the tick should then be removed in a safe place such as a hospital emergency room. The risk of infectious transmission increases with the duration of tick attachment. It requires between 36 and 48 hours of attachment
Opossums stop the spread of Lyme disease because they kill up to 4,000 ticks a week. [SEP] Lyme disease // and muscle and joint pains from treatment which may last for one or two days. In those who develop persistent symptoms, long-term antibiotic therapy has not been found to be useful. Lyme disease is the most common disease spread by ticks in the Northern Hemisphere. It is estimated to affect 300,000 people a year in the United States and 65,000 people a year in Europe. Infections are most common in the spring and early summer. Lyme disease was diagnosed as a separate condition for the first time in 1975 in Old Lyme, Connecticut. It was originally mistaken for juvenile rheumatoid
Opossums stop the spread of Lyme disease because they kill up to 4,000 ticks a week. [SEP] Mycobacterium bovis // in 1994 to fewer than 100 herds in July 2011. Much of this success can be attributed to sustained cattle controls reducing cross-infection and breaking the disease cycle. For example, at Hohotaka, in New Zealand's central North Island, control work from 1988 to 1994 achieved a sustained mean reduction of 87.5% in the density of TB‐infected opossums. As expected, annual TB incidence in local cattle herds consequently declined by a similar amount (83.4%). Possums are controlled through a combination of trapping, ground-baiting, and where other methods are impractical, aerial treatment with 1080 poison. From 1979 to 1984, possum control was
Opossums stop the spread of Lyme disease because they kill up to 4,000 ticks a week. [SEP] Dermacentor variabilis // on mammals such as squirrels, humans, deer, mice, raccoons, and even skunks. They also feed on birds. The nymph continues to feed off of the mammals stated above before maturing into an infected adult. Once the tick reaches the adult stage, it will commonly feed on larger animals such as the opossum, cat, dog, deer, and humans. Symptoms of Rocky Mountain spotted fever can first be noted by the appearance of a rash around the wrists and ankles that moves slowly up to the rest of the body and develops within 2–5 days. Symptoms of tularemia usually appear within 3–5
The 1866 "Ex parte Milligan" precludes states from enforcing regulations that prevent residents from freely traveling or earning a living. [SEP] Ex parte Milligan // Ex parte Milligan Ex parte Milligan, 71 U.S. (4 Wall.) 2 (1866), was a U.S. Supreme Court case that ruled the application of military tribunals to citizens when civilian courts are still operating is unconstitutional. In this particular case, the Court was unwilling to give President Abraham Lincoln's administration the power of military commission jurisdiction, part of the administration's controversial plan to deal with Union dissenters during the American Civil War. Justice David Davis, who delivered the majority opinion, stated that "martial rule can never exist when the courts are open" and confined martial law to areas of "military operations,
The 1866 "Ex parte Milligan" precludes states from enforcing regulations that prevent residents from freely traveling or earning a living. [SEP] Ex parte Milligan // in their functions... yet wholly incompetent to avert threatened danger, or to punish, with adequate promptitude and certainty, the guilty conspirators." However, as Judge Davis described the status of the federal courts in Indiana at the time, "It needed no bayonets to protect it, and required no military aid to execute its judgments." "Ex parte Milligan" became well known as the leading U.S. Supreme Court case that found the president went beyond his legal powers to suppress dissenters during the American Civil War. The decision also helped establish the tradition that presidential and military action "based on war" had limits.
The 1866 "Ex parte Milligan" precludes states from enforcing regulations that prevent residents from freely traveling or earning a living. [SEP] Ex parte Milligan // Horsey. The petitions were based on an act of the Congress titled "An Act Relating to Habeas Corpus and Regulation Judicial Proceedings in Certain Cases" that went into effect on March 3, 1863. The act was intended to resolve the question of whether Lincoln had the constitutional authority to suspend the writ of "habeas corpus" as authorized under Article 1 of the U.S. Constitution. Milligan's petition alleged that a federal grand jury had met in Indianapolis during January 1865, which it did, and it had not indicted him, which is also true, making him eligible for a release from prison
The 1866 "Ex parte Milligan" precludes states from enforcing regulations that prevent residents from freely traveling or earning a living. [SEP] Expatriation Act of 1868 // Judge David L. Bazelon argued that "[s]ince expatriation is today impossible without leaving the country, the policy expressed by Congress in 1868 and never repealed precludes a reading of the passport and travel control statutes which would permit the Secretary of State to prevent citizens from leaving". Chief Judge Henry White Edgerton concurred with Bazelon's opinion. Congress's power to legislate for implicit expatriation of Americans was later heavily restricted by the 1967 case "Afroyim v. Rusk", which concluded that natural-born Americans cannot be deprived of citizenship by any means except a voluntary renunciation in the presence of a consular official.
The 1866 "Ex parte Milligan" precludes states from enforcing regulations that prevent residents from freely traveling or earning a living. [SEP] Freedom of movement under United States law // 383 U.S. 745 (1966), the Supreme Court overruled Chief Justice White's conclusion that the federal government could protect the right to travel only against state infringement. The Supreme Court has specifically ruled that "Crandall" does not imply a right to use any particular "mode" of travel, such as driving an automobile. In "Hendrick v. Maryland" (1915), the appellant asked the Court to void Maryland's motor vehicle statute as a violation of the freedom of movement. The Court found "no solid foundation" for the appellant's argument and unanimously held that "in the absence of national legislation covering the subject, a state
The 1866 "Ex parte Milligan" precludes states from enforcing regulations that prevent residents from freely traveling or earning a living. [SEP] United States v. Wheeler (1920) // had not resided within the jurisdiction for at least one year as an impermissible burden on the right to travel. The Court has used "Wheeler" to strike down one-year residency requirements for voting in state elections, one-year waiting periods before receiving state-provided medical care, civil service preferences for state veterans, and higher fishing and hunting license fees for out-of-state residents. The "Wheeler" decision may yet have even farther-reaching implications. The Supreme Court has acknowledged that freedom of movement is closely related to freedom of association and to freedom of expression. Strong constitutional protection for the right to travel may have
The 1866 "Ex parte Milligan" precludes states from enforcing regulations that prevent residents from freely traveling or earning a living. [SEP] Eunique v. Powell // safe harbor derived from state law) the federal statute was predicated on state certification of child support delinquency provided in accordance with federal law. Judge McKeown then engaged in a survey of precedent in right to international travel cases. She distinguished "Kent", "Aptheker", and "Zemel", concluding that the Court had held that the right to international travel could be regulated within the bounds of due process, and that “legislation which is said to infringe on the freedom to travel abroad is not to be judged by the same standard applied to laws that penalize the right of interstate travel”. Laws
The 1866 "Ex parte Milligan" precludes states from enforcing regulations that prevent residents from freely traveling or earning a living. [SEP] Gerald Heaney // Kassel", 612 F.2d 1064 (8th Cir. 1979), aff'd, 450 U.S. 662 (1981), Iowa's prohibition of extra-long semitrailer trucks was alleged to unconstitutionally burden interstate commerce, in violation of what is known as the dormant Commerce Clause. The court upheld the claim and struck down the requirement. In the court's opinion, Judge Heaney reasoned that, while "some burdening of interstate commerce will be tolerated" for the sake of safety, The Iowa regulation failed because it burdened interstate commerce and failed to directly protect a state safety interest. Two years later, the United States Supreme Court affirmed this ruling. Gerald and Eleanor
The 1866 "Ex parte Milligan" precludes states from enforcing regulations that prevent residents from freely traveling or earning a living. [SEP] Ex parte Milligan // not the situation in Indiana, where the civilian courts were still operating at the time of Milligan's arrest, trial, and incarceration. The majority opinion further observed that during the suspension of the writ of "habeas corpus", citizens may be only detained without charges, not "tried" or executed under the jurisdictions of military tribunals. The writ is not the right itself, but merely the ability to issue orders demanding the right's "enforcement." In "Ex parte Milligan", which in essence was a case about governmental power and personal liberty, the Court's decision stood "on the side of personal liberty." In this case
The 1866 "Ex parte Milligan" precludes states from enforcing regulations that prevent residents from freely traveling or earning a living. [SEP] Ex parte Young // Ex parte Young Ex parte Young, 209 U.S. 123 (1908), is a United States Supreme Court case that allows suits in federal courts against officials acting on behalf of states of the union to proceed despite the State's sovereign immunity, when the State acted unconstitutionally. The state of Minnesota passed laws limiting what railroads could charge in that state and established severe penalties, including fines and jail for violators. Some shareholders of Northern Pacific Railway filed a lawsuit in the United States Circuit Court for the District of Minnesota asserting that the laws were unconstitutional as violating the Due Process
Cortisol levels in children's hair may reveal future mental health risk [SEP] Stress in early childhood // cortisol levels. Some children manifest low levels of cortisol production, and some experience high cortisol levels. The children with higher levels of glucocorticoids are prone to have the most problems with physical, social, mental, and motor development. Research has not yet determined whether these effects are permanent, however, it has been found that children experiencing stressful situations after the first four to six months of life endure from intellectual and social problems. Also, persistent stress in young children makes the stress regulation mechanisms deviate from normal coping mechanisms. For children experiencing good or tolerable stress, stress instigates an increase in
Cortisol levels in children's hair may reveal future mental health risk [SEP] Bioarchaeology // resume, resulting in a line of increased mineral density that will be visible in a radiograph. If there is not recovery from the stressor, no line will be formed. The stress hormone cortisol is deposited in hair as it grows. This has been used successfully to detect fluctuating levels of stress in the later lifespan of mummies. Examining the effects that activities and workload has upon the skeleton allows the archaeologist to examine who was doing what kinds of labor, and how activities were structured within society. The division of labor within the household may be divided according to gender
Cortisol levels in children's hair may reveal future mental health risk [SEP] Voting behavior // hormone," were significantly higher immediately before entering a polling place than personal baseline levels measured on a similar, non-election day. This may be significant for voting choices since cortisol is known to affect memory consolidation, memory retrieval, and reward- and risk-seeking behavior. Acute stress may disrupt decision making and affect cognition. Additionally, research done on voters in Ann Arbor and Durham after the US 2008 elections showed partial evidence that voting for the losing candidate may lead to increased cortisol levels relative to levels among voters who chose the winning candidate. The use of emotional appeals in political campaigns to
Cortisol levels in children's hair may reveal future mental health risk [SEP] Human hair color // or high-level politicians such as Bill Clinton or Barack Obama. There is some evidence for chronic stress causing premature achromotrichia, but no definite link has been established. It is known that the stress hormone "cortisol" accumulates in human hair over time, but whether this has any effect on hair color has not yet been resolved. Albinism is a genetic abnormality in which little or no pigment is found in human hair, eyes, and skin. The hair is often white or pale blond. However, it can be red, darker blond, light brown, or rarely, even dark brown. Vitiligo is a patchy
Cortisol levels in children's hair may reveal future mental health risk [SEP] Barbara A. Cornblatt // were five times as likely to develop schizophrenia. Cortisol Level and Risk for Psychosis: Researchers tested the cortisol contents of saliva in 256 individuals. It was discovered that patients that were at a higher risk of Psychosis, or already had the diagnosis, had increased cortisol levels. This study suggests the need for future research focusing on the hormone levels of individuals with, or at risk of, Psychosis. Barbara A. Cornblatt Barbara A. Cornblatt is a professor of psychiatry and molecular medicine at Hofstra Northwell School of Medicine. Cornblatt is known for research on the treatment and cause of serious mental
Cortisol levels in children's hair may reveal future mental health risk [SEP] Alcohol and cortisol // to compare long-term cortisol levels in alcoholics, abstinent alcoholics, and non-alcoholics. One recent study revealed that alcoholics had three to four times higher hair cortisol concentrations than abstinent alcoholics or non-alcoholics (consistent with previous research showing periods of alcohol consumption are associated with heightened cortisol levels). Abstinent alcoholics and non-alcoholics had the same low levels of cortisol, suggesting that cortisol levels eventually return to normal after extended cessation. Alcohol and cortisol Recent research has looked into the effects of alcohol on the amount of cortisol that is produced in the human body. Continuous consumption of alcohol over an extended period
Cortisol levels in children's hair may reveal future mental health risk [SEP] Stress in early childhood // feedback regulation of the HPA system, and decreased sensitivity of the adrenal cortex to ACTH. Also, the availability of adult support for young children helps safeguard the activity of the HPA stress system. Many experiences can cause structural changes in the HPA system. The effects of repeated increases in cortisol levels have been researched in many animal studies, but these outcomes are also representative of humans, including young children. It has been determined that when glucocorticoids, including cortisol, are placed into various parts of the brain for many days, CRH is produced in increased quantities. In turn, this causes fear
Cortisol levels in children's hair may reveal future mental health risk [SEP] Foster care // affected by selection bias, and that foster care has little effect on behavioral problems. Foster children have elevated levels of cortisol, a stress hormone, in comparison to children raised by their biological parents. Elevated cortisol levels can compromise the immune system. (Harden BJ, 2004). Most of the processes involved in healthy neurodevelopment are predicated upon the establishment of close nurturing relationships and environmental stimulation. Negative environmental influences during this critical period of brain development can have lifelong consequences. Children in foster care have a higher incidence of posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD). In one study, 60% of children in foster care
Cortisol levels in children's hair may reveal future mental health risk [SEP] Stress in early childhood // systems, which can lead to diminished physical and mental health throughout a person's lifetime. Extreme exposure to such toxic stress can result in the stress response system becoming more highly sensitized to stressful events, producing increased wear and tear on physical systems through over-activation of the body's stress response. This wear and tear increases the later risk of various physical and mental illnesses. In children experiencing persistent toxic stress, functioning occurs in a fear state and this becomes habitual. Many times, cortisol levels do not reach basal ranges after the situation has been mitigated. With chronic toxic stress, children undergo
Cortisol levels in children's hair may reveal future mental health risk [SEP] Social stress // Maltreated children show higher morning cortisol values than non-maltreated children. Their HPA systems also fail to recover after a stressful social interaction with their caregiver. Over time, low-SES children show progressively greater output of cortisol. Although these studies point to a disrupted HPA system accounting for the link between social stress and physical health, they did not include disease outcomes. Nevertheless, a dysfunctional HPA response to stress is thought to increase risk for developing or exacerbating diseases such as diabetes, cancer, cardiovascular disease, and hypertension. Inflammation is an immune response that is critical to fighting infections and repairing injured tissue.
China seeks to identify cause of mystery pneumonia infecting 44. [SEP] Severe acute respiratory syndrome // infection among hospital staff alarmed global health authorities, who were fearful of another emergent pneumonia epidemic. On 12 March 2003, the WHO issued a global alert, followed by a health alert by the United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). Local transmission of SARS took place in Toronto, Ottawa, San Francisco, Ulaanbaatar, Manila, Singapore, Taiwan, Hanoi and Hong Kong whereas within China it spread to Guangdong, Jilin, Hebei, Hubei, Shaanxi, Jiangsu, Shanxi, Tianjin, and Inner Mongolia. The disease spread in Hong Kong from Liu Jianlun, a Guangdong doctor who was treating patients at Sun Yat-Sen Memorial Hospital. He
China seeks to identify cause of mystery pneumonia infecting 44. [SEP] Epidemiology of pneumonia // of age. It occurs about five times more frequently in the developing world versus the developed world. Viral pneumonia accounts for about 200 million cases. Hospital-acquired pneumonia is pneumonia that is acquired in a hospital setting at least 48 hours after being admitted. Pneumonia the second most common hospital-acquired disease, while also being the leading cause of death among hospital-acquired infections. Hospital-acquired pneumonia is also seen to be the cause for nearly half of all the antibiotics taken within hospitals worldwide. A sub-type of hospital-acquired pneumonia, known as ventilator-associated pneumonia, is described as pneumonia acquired more than 48 hours after
China seeks to identify cause of mystery pneumonia infecting 44. [SEP] Influenza A virus subtype H7N9 // 28, four provinces, Zhejiang, Shandong, Jiangxi, and Fujian, reported new cases, raising the total number of cases in mainland China to 125 with 24 deaths. On May 2, there were 127 confirmed cases in mainland China, of which 27 were fatal, and including the case in Taiwan there were a total of 128 cases worldwide. On May 6, in a weekly update, China's Ministry of Health announced there were 129 confirmed cases in mainland China with 31 deaths, for a total of 130 cases worldwide. On May 7, Hong Kong's Centre for Health Protection reported that there were 130 confirmed
China seeks to identify cause of mystery pneumonia infecting 44. [SEP] Middle East respiratory syndrome // case in China. So far, no Chinese citizen has been found infected. As of 27 June 2015, 19 people in South Korea have died from this outbreak, with 184 confirmed cases of infection. There have been at least 6508 quarantined. In April 2014, MERS emerged in the Philippines with a suspected case of a home-bound Overseas Filipino Worker (OFW). Several suspected cases involving individuals who were on the same flight as the initial suspected case are being tracked but are believed to have dispersed throughout the country. Another suspected MERS-involved death in Sultan Kudarat province caused the Department of Health
China seeks to identify cause of mystery pneumonia infecting 44. [SEP] Epidemiology of pneumonia // pneumonia occurred in approximately 156 million children (151 million in the developing world and 5 million in the developed world). It caused in 1.6 million deaths or 28–34% of all deaths in those under five years of age of which 95% occur in the developing world. Countries with the greatest burden of disease include: India (43 million), China (21 million) and Pakistan (10 million). Children in developing countries are at a significantly higher risk for developing pneumonia because malnutrition, overcrowding, and the lack of proper housing are prevalent risk factors. Other illnesses can also worsen the chances for developing pneumonia,
China seeks to identify cause of mystery pneumonia infecting 44. [SEP] Epidemiology of pneumonia // an endotracheal intubation procedure was performed. It is also seen to be the most common infection in intensive care units (ICUs), making up around 70-80% of the cases of hospital-acquired pneumonia in ICUs. The primary pathogen that can cause hospital-acquired pneumonia is dependent on the geographical location but overall, it was found that six most common bacteria that caused most hospital-acquired pneumonia cases were "S. aureus, P. aeurginosa, Klebsiella" species", E. coli, Acinetobacter" species"," and "Enterobacter" species. While the majority of these pathogens are bacteria, it is possible for multiple pathogens to infect at once and cause pneumonia. In 2008
China seeks to identify cause of mystery pneumonia infecting 44. [SEP] World Pneumonia Day // helps to bring this health crisis to the public’s attention and encourages policy makers and grassroots organizers alike to combat the disease. In spite of the massive death toll of this disease, affordable treatment and prevention options exist. There are effective vaccines against the two most common bacterial causes of deadly pneumonia, "Haemophilus influenzae" type B and "Streptococcus pneumoniae", and most common viral cause of pneumonia, "Orthomyxoviridae". A course of antibiotics which costs less than $1(US) is capable of curing the disease if it is started early enough. The Global Action Plan for the Prevention and Control of Pneumonia (GAPP)
China seeks to identify cause of mystery pneumonia infecting 44. [SEP] Severe acute respiratory syndrome // change in official policy when SARS began to receive a much greater prominence in the official media. Some have directly attributed this to the death of American James Earl Salisbury. It was around this same time that Jiang Yanyong made accusations regarding the undercounting of cases in Beijing military hospitals. After intense pressure, Chinese officials allowed international officials to investigate the situation there. This revealed problems plaguing the aging mainland Chinese healthcare system, including increasing decentralization, red tape, and inadequate communication. Many healthcare workers in the affected nations risked and lost their lives by treating patients and trying to contain
China seeks to identify cause of mystery pneumonia infecting 44. [SEP] Pneumococcal infection // discovered, and the Danish system, which groups them according to antigenic similarities. Pneumococcal infection A pneumococcal infection is an infection caused by the bacterium "Streptococcus pneumoniae", which is also called the pneumococcus. "S. pneumoniae" is a common member of the bacterial flora colonizing the nose and throat of 5–10% of healthy adults and 20–40% of healthy children. However, it is also a cause of significant disease, being a leading cause of pneumonia, bacterial meningitis, and sepsis. The World Health Organization estimate that in 2005 pneumococcal infections were responsible for the death of 1.6 million children worldwide. Pneumococcal pneumonia represents 15%–50%
China seeks to identify cause of mystery pneumonia infecting 44. [SEP] Pneumococcal infection // Pneumococcal infection A pneumococcal infection is an infection caused by the bacterium "Streptococcus pneumoniae", which is also called the pneumococcus. "S. pneumoniae" is a common member of the bacterial flora colonizing the nose and throat of 5–10% of healthy adults and 20–40% of healthy children. However, it is also a cause of significant disease, being a leading cause of pneumonia, bacterial meningitis, and sepsis. The World Health Organization estimate that in 2005 pneumococcal infections were responsible for the death of 1.6 million children worldwide. Pneumococcal pneumonia represents 15%–50% of all episodes of community-acquired pneumonia, 30–50% of all cases of acute
North Dakota governor says controlling hotspot is weeks away. [SEP] Minot train derailment // signal and an on-air microphone. As local stations were running in automated mode, there was nobody on-site to interrupt programming and issue warnings concerning the disaster. By the morning of January 18, the cloud was dissipating, but covered a wider area of the city. Governor John Hoeven arrived on a North Dakota National Guard helicopter to survey the disaster, landing near Dakota Square Mall for a brief press conference. The accident was investigated by the National Transportation Safety Board. The NTSB determined that the train crew was operating their train at the appropriate speed through the region and adhering to
North Dakota governor says controlling hotspot is weeks away. [SEP] Former North Dakota Executive Mansion // North Dakota State Historic Site in 1983. Former North Dakota Executive Mansion The Former North Dakota Executive Mansion, also or formerly known as Old Governor's Mansion or Asa Fisher House, at 320 Ave. B., E., in Bismarck, North Dakota, was built in 1893. It served "as the official residence of the Governors of North Dakota for nearly 67 years. The last Governor to occupy it was John E. Davis whose term of office ran through 1960." From 1961 through 1975, the former house was used for offices of the State Health Department. It was listed on the National Register of
North Dakota governor says controlling hotspot is weeks away. [SEP] 2016 North Dakota gubernatorial election // second full term in office. The North Dakota Republican Party will endorse a candidate at their state convention April 1–3, but ballot access is actually controlled by North Dakota's primary election held Tuesday, June 14. To endorse a candidate, delegates to the Republican state convention voted for one candidate in a series of rounds. After the first round, all candidates would remain on the ballot, but after subsequent rounds of voting, the recipient of the lowest number of votes would be removed. The first candidate to receive more than half the cast vote would receive the state party endorsement. After
North Dakota governor says controlling hotspot is weeks away. [SEP] Governor of North Dakota // general election is held on November 8). The next gubernatorial election in North Dakota is slated for November 3, 2020. The current governor of North Dakota is Republican Doug Burgum. He became governor December 15, 2016. According to the state constitution, the governor and the lieutenant governor must be elected on a joint ballot, or single ticket. In North Dakota, each candidate for governor appears printed on the ballot with the candidate for lieutenant governor of the same political party. A single vote is cast for both offices; no other option is available to the voter. Therefore, a voter may
North Dakota governor says controlling hotspot is weeks away. [SEP] Politics of North Dakota // resigned; he was succeeded by Republican Doug Goehring, appointed by Republican Governor John Hoeven. Changes in demographics are beginning to influence the elections. A sizeable portion of North Dakota lands are held by federally recognized Native American tribes in reservations. Native Americans have become more active in electoral politics, and most vote with the North Dakota Democratic-NPL Party. In 2016, a record three candidates running for statewide office are Native American: Chase Iron Eyes for US Congress, Ruth Buffalo for Insurance Commissioner, and Marlo Hunte-Beaubrun for the Public Service Commission, the agency that regulates oil pipelines. In August 2016, a
North Dakota governor says controlling hotspot is weeks away. [SEP] Governor of North Dakota // not choose a single candidate for governor from one political party and a single candidate for lieutenant governor from a competing party. In addition to his role leading the executive branch offices, the governor has the right to sign or veto laws and to call the Legislative Assembly into emergency session. The governor is also, by statute, chairman of the North Dakota Industrial Commission. A governor is elected by statewide popular vote to a four-year term. North Dakota law specifies that a regular term of an elected governor shall commence on December 15 following the November election in an even
North Dakota governor says controlling hotspot is weeks away. [SEP] Former North Dakota Executive Mansion // Former North Dakota Executive Mansion The Former North Dakota Executive Mansion, also or formerly known as Old Governor's Mansion or Asa Fisher House, at 320 Ave. B., E., in Bismarck, North Dakota, was built in 1893. It served "as the official residence of the Governors of North Dakota for nearly 67 years. The last Governor to occupy it was John E. Davis whose term of office ran through 1960." From 1961 through 1975, the former house was used for offices of the State Health Department. It was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1975. The original governor's
North Dakota governor says controlling hotspot is weeks away. [SEP] Politics of North Dakota // Bismarck and the current Governor of North Dakota is Doug Burgum, a Republican. His first term began on December 15, 2016. The Lieutenant Governor of North Dakota, elected on a joint ticket with the governor, is Brent Sanford. Sanford concurrently serves, by virtue of his office as lieutenant governor, as the President of the North Dakota Senate. The offices of governor and lieutenant governor, as well as all of the other executive offices, with the exception of public service commissioner, have four-year terms. The governor is assisted by a State Cabinet consisting of the assembled heads of the various executive
North Dakota governor says controlling hotspot is weeks away. [SEP] North Dakota Governor's Residence // of funding. Governor Jack Dalrymple signed SB 2304 on April 29, 2015. Construction groundwork began in September 2016. After several delays and budget increases, the first family moved into the new residence in March 2018. North Dakota Governor's Residence The North Dakota Governor's Residence is the home of the Governor of North Dakota. The current residence is on the southwest corner of the North Dakota State Capitol grounds in Bismarck, and is the third official residence built for North Dakota's governors. The original governor's mansion was built in 1884 as a private home for Bismarck businessman Asa Fisher. Fisher homesteaded
North Dakota governor says controlling hotspot is weeks away. [SEP] Governor of North Dakota // held in January 2017. The decision to conduct the celebration at a later date was made to avoid interference with the busy holiday schedules of many celebrants in December. There is no limit to the number of terms a governor may serve, if elected. It is possible for a governor to serve non-sequential terms. The official residence of the governor is the North Dakota Governor's Residence in Bismarck. Governor of North Dakota The governor of North Dakota is the head of the executive branch of government of North Dakota and serves as the commander-in-chief of the state's military forces. The
The European Union ordered reporters to not reporting whether a terrorist is Muslim. [SEP] Fundamental Rights Agency // (EUMC). From a total of 75 reports, 15 from each member state, a synthesis report, entitled "Summary report on Islamophobia in the EU after 11 September 2001", was published in May 2002. The report highlighted occasions in which citizens abused and sometimes violently attacked Muslims. Discrimination included verbal abuse, indiscriminately accusing Muslims of responsibility for the attacks, removing women's hijab, spitting, using the name "Usama" as a pejorative epithet, and assaults. The report concluded that "a greater receptivity towards anti-Muslim and other xenophobic ideas and sentiments has, and may well continue, to become more tolerated". The need for a new
The European Union ordered reporters to not reporting whether a terrorist is Muslim. [SEP] Islamophobia // made anti-Muslim comments when discussing European migrant crisis. The largest project monitoring Islamophobia was undertaken following 9/11 by the EU watchdog, European Monitoring Centre on Racism and Xenophobia (EUMC). Their May 2002 report "Summary report on Islamophobia in the EU after 11 September 2001", written by Chris Allen and Jorgen S. Nielsen of the University of Birmingham, was based on 75 reports – 15 from each EU member nation. The report highlighted the regularity with which ordinary Muslims became targets for abusive and sometimes violent retaliatory attacks after 9/11. Despite localized differences within each member nation, the recurrence of attacks
The European Union ordered reporters to not reporting whether a terrorist is Muslim. [SEP] Safety of journalists // with authorities, media and civil society representatives and other parties and shares his/ her observations and recommendations with the OSCE participating States twice a year. In May 2014, the Council of the European Union adopted the European Union Human Rights Guidelines on Freedom of Expression Online and Offline, which stated that the European Union would ‘take all appropriate steps to ensure the protection of journalists, both in terms of preventive measures and by urging effective investigations when violations occur’. In April 2014, the Council of Europe’s Committee of Ministers adopted a resolution on the protection of journalism and safety of
The European Union ordered reporters to not reporting whether a terrorist is Muslim. [SEP] Islamic terrorism in Europe // jihadists in the European Union increased from four in 2014 to seventeen in 2015, while the number of people killed increased from four to 150. Non-EU areas of Europe are not included in the Europol figures. In 2015, the terrorist threat level was zero in Poland, on its scale which has four levels plus the "zero level". About 20-40 Polish nationals had travelled to the conflict zone in Syria-Iraq. In 2016, a total of 135 people were killed in ten completed jihadist attacks in the European Union, according to Europol figures. Thirteen attacks were attempted. The number of arrests increased
The European Union ordered reporters to not reporting whether a terrorist is Muslim. [SEP] Journalism source protection // War". According to the COE report, following the 2001 terrorist attacks, many European countries adopted new laws or expanded the use of old laws to monitor communications. Gillian Phillips, Director of Editorial Legal Services of The Guardian has specifically referenced the implications of governments invoking national security and anti-terrorism measures that interfere with protections for journalists and their sources. Calls for unlimited monitoring and use of modern surveillance technologies to access all citizens' data, directly challenge journalists' rights to protect their confidential sources, she said. A report by The Guardian in 2015, based on files leaked by Edward Snowden, highlighted
The European Union ordered reporters to not reporting whether a terrorist is Muslim. [SEP] Terrorism in Europe // as either pertaining to religious issues, right wing, left wing or separatist movements. The field is subject to considerable cooperation among national authorities. In July 2014 the Government of France introduced legislation to combat terrorism by toughening surveillance, making it lawful to detain individuals linked to radical "Islamist" groups, and to block Internet sites that incite anti-Semitism, terrorism and hatred. The country's Interior Minister Bernard Cazeneuve revealed 600 French nationals were in Syria at the time or planned to go there. The bill includes a ban on foreign travel for up to six months for those believed to hold terrorist
The European Union ordered reporters to not reporting whether a terrorist is Muslim. [SEP] Islamic terrorism // Islamist terrorism. The report showed that the majority of Islamist terror suspects were second or third generation immigrants. In 2009, a Europol report showed that more than 99% of terrorist attacks in Europe over the last three years were, carried out by non-Muslims. Swedish economist Tino Sanandaji has criticised the use of statistics where the number of attacks are counted instead of the number of killed, since 79% of terrorist deaths 2001-2011 in Europe were due to Islamic terrorism. Therefore statistics focusing on the number of attacks instead of the number killed are exploited by those who wish to trivialise
The European Union ordered reporters to not reporting whether a terrorist is Muslim. [SEP] International reactions to the Jyllands-Posten Muhammad cartoons controversy // cannot be compromised: "It's better to publish too much than not to have freedom.." Franco Frattini, the vice-President of the European Commission and EU Commissioner for Justice, Freedom, and Security, called the publication of the twelve cartoons "thoughtless and inappropriate" in a time when European animosity towards Islam is said to be on the rise. According to Frattini, the cartoons foment hostility against Islam and foreigners. The European Union on 2006-01-30, said that any retaliatory boycott of Danish goods would violate world trade rules. On February 15, 2006, the European Parliament accepted a resolution which condemns all violence arising from
The European Union ordered reporters to not reporting whether a terrorist is Muslim. [SEP] European Investigative Collaborations // leading to [the 2015] terror attacks in Paris." In 2017 working with "over 60 journalists in 14 countries", the EIC published the Football Leaks—the "largest leak in sports history". Through "joint reporting and publication", the EIA aims to strengthen the European transnational investigative journalism by joint reporting with the utmost transparency. They exchange documents and articles and coordinate publication, and to improve the tools used in their investigations from one investigation to another—for example in their data processing capabilities, servers, secure forums, etc. At Dataharvest 2015 and other networking events, discussions related to "establishing this European Network" started with "Jörg
The European Union ordered reporters to not reporting whether a terrorist is Muslim. [SEP] Islamic terrorism in Europe // shootings, including in January 2016, June 2016 and January 2017. In 2015, the Islamic State, which in 2014 had claimed that all Muslims were under a religious obligation to join it, declared that the only excuse for Muslims to not join the group in territories under its control was to perpetrate terrorist attacks in their current place of residence. According to Europol's annual report released in 2017, the Islamic State exploited the flow of refugees and migrants to commit acts of terrorism, which was a feature of the 2015 Paris attacks. In 2016 attack planning against Western countries took place
Some Doctors Question New Cancer Treatment [SEP] Treatment of cancer // affects cancer in a living being and whether it has harmful effects. Of course, treatments that work well in the lab or in animals do not always work well in people. Studies are done with cancer patients to find out whether promising treatments are safe and effective. Patients who take part may be helped personally by the treatment they receive. They get up-to-date care from cancer experts, and they receive either a new treatment being tested or the best available standard treatment for their cancer. At the same time, new treatments also may have unknown risks, but if a new
Some Doctors Question New Cancer Treatment [SEP] Cancer survival rates // cancer and the availability of new treatment options, which are continually evolving. Where surgery was previously the only option for treatment, cancer is now treated with radiation and chemotherapy, including combination chemotherapy that favors treatment with many drugs over just one. Availability and access to clinical trials has also lead to more targeted therapy and improved knowledge of treatment efficacy. There are currently over 60,000 clinical trials related to cancer registered on ClinicalTrials.gov, so novel approaches to cancer treatment are continuing to be developed. The NCI lists over 100 targeted therapies that have been approved for the treatment of 26
Some Doctors Question New Cancer Treatment [SEP] Cancer // are studied in clinical trials to compare the proposed treatment to the best existing treatment. Treatments that succeeded in one cancer type can be tested against other types. Diagnostic tests are under development to better target the right therapies to the right patients, based on their individual biology. Cancer research focuses on the following issues: The improved understanding of molecular biology and cellular biology due to cancer research has led to new treatments for cancer since US President Richard Nixon declared the "War on Cancer" in 1971. Since then, the country has spent over $200 billion on cancer research, including
Some Doctors Question New Cancer Treatment [SEP] Alternative cancer treatments // loyal to their alternative healthcare providers and believe that "treatment should concentrate on the whole person". Cancer patients who choose alternative treatments instead of conventional treatments believe themselves less likely to die than patients who choose only conventional treatments. They feel a greater sense of control over their destinies, and report less anxiety and depression. They are more likely to engage in benefit finding, which is the psychological process of adapting to a traumatic situation and deciding that the trauma was valuable, usually because of perceived personal and spiritual growth during the crisis. However, patients who use alternative treatments have
Some Doctors Question New Cancer Treatment [SEP] Alternative cancer treatments // testing was completed. Since the 1940s, medical science has developed chemotherapy, radiation therapy, adjuvant therapy and the newer targeted therapies, as well as refined surgical techniques for removing cancer. Before the development of these modern, evidence-based treatments, 90% of cancer patients died within five years. With modern mainstream treatments, only 34% of cancer patients die within five years. However, while mainstream forms of cancer treatment generally prolong life or permanently cure cancer, most treatments also have side effects ranging from unpleasant to fatal, such as pain, blood clots, fatigue, and infection. These side effects and the lack of a guarantee
Some Doctors Question New Cancer Treatment [SEP] Robert Wood Johnson University Hospital // The center treats prostate, breast, lung, head and neck, brain, pediatric, pancreatic, and other cancers with what is currently considered to be the most precise form of cancer treatment. Instead of using conventional radiation therapy go destroy cancer cells, proton therapy uses a beam of protons that can be aimed directly at tumors. There is less damage to surrounding tissue, and doctors can use a higher dose of radiation than conventional therapy. The treatment is painless, has mild side effects, and has minimal risk. Proton therapy is part of a comprehensive range of advanced cancer treatment options offered by RWJ
Some Doctors Question New Cancer Treatment [SEP] Non-small-cell lung carcinoma // remove the tumor), remains the treatment of choice if patients are diagnosed at an early stage. If the person has a small, but inoperable tumor, they may undergo highly targeted, high intensity radiation therapy. New methods of giving radiation treatment allow doctors to be more accurate in treating lung cancers. This means less radiation affects nearby healthy tissues. New methods include Cyberknife and stereotactic body radiation therapy(SBRT). Certain people that are deemed to be higher risk may also receive adjuvant (ancillary) chemotherapy after initial surgery or radiation therapy. There are a number of possible chemotherapy agents which can be selected
Some Doctors Question New Cancer Treatment [SEP] Treatment of cancer // bowel obstruction. This is referred to as palliative treatment. Surgery may be performed before or after other forms of treatment. Treatment before surgery is often described as neoadjuvant. In breast cancer, the survival rate of patients who receive neoadjuvant chemotherapy are no different to those who are treated following surgery. Giving chemotherapy earlier allows oncologists to evaluate the effectiveness of the therapy, and may make removal of the tumor easier. However, the survival advantages of neoadjuvant treatment in lung cancer are less clear. Radiation therapy (also called radiotherapy, X-ray therapy, or irradiation) is the use of ionizing radiation to kill
Some Doctors Question New Cancer Treatment [SEP] Cancer // photofluorography due to the high incidence there. Genetic testing for individuals at high-risk of certain cancers is recommended by unofficial groups. Carriers of these mutations may then undergo enhanced surveillance, chemoprevention, or preventative surgery to reduce their subsequent risk. Many treatment options for cancer exist. The primary ones include surgery, chemotherapy, radiation therapy, hormonal therapy, targeted therapy and palliative care. Which treatments are used depends on the type, location and grade of the cancer as well as the patient's health and preferences. The treatment intent may or may not be curative. Chemotherapy is the treatment of cancer with one or
Some Doctors Question New Cancer Treatment [SEP] Alternative cancer treatments // to report a favorable impression of at least some complementary and alternative benefits. Many therapies have been (and continue to be) promoted to treat or prevent cancer in humans but lack good scientific and medical evidence of effectiveness. In many cases, there is good scientific evidence that the alleged treatments do not work. Unlike accepted cancer treatments, unproven and disproven treatments are generally ignored or avoided by the medical community, and are often pseudoscientific. Despite this, many of these therapies have continued to be promoted as effective, particularly by promoters of alternative medicine. Scientists consider this practice quackery, and some
Florida’s hepatitis A outbreak prompts vaccine push. [SEP] Kiryas Joel, New York // food at school. Children who were not infected with hepatitis A were separated into two groups, one receiving the experimental vaccine and the other receiving a placebo injection. Based on this study, the vaccine was declared 100 percent effective. Merck licensed the vaccine in 1995 and it became available in 1996, after which the hepatitis A infection rate fell by 75 percent in the United States. The unusual lifestyle and growth pattern of Kiryas Joel has led to litigation on a number of fronts. In 1994, the Supreme Court ruled in the case of "Board of Education of Kiryas Joel
Florida’s hepatitis A outbreak prompts vaccine push. [SEP] Hepatitis A // against a future infection. The vaccine protects against HAV in more than 95% of cases for longer than 25 years. In the US, the vaccine was first used in 1996 for children in high-risk areas, and in 1999 it was spread to areas with elevating levels of infection. The vaccine is given by injection. An initial dose provides protection lasting one year starting 2–4 weeks after vaccination; the second booster dose, given six to 12 months later, provides protection for over 20 years. The vaccine was introduced in 1992 and was initially recommended for persons at high risk. Since then,
Florida’s hepatitis A outbreak prompts vaccine push. [SEP] Hepatitis // resource countries with inadequate public sanitation and large concentrated populations. In such regions, as much as 90% of children younger than 10 years old have been infected and are immune, corresponding both to lower rates of clinically symptomatic disease and outbreaks. The availability of a childhood vaccine has significantly reduced infections in the United States, with incidence declining by more than 95% as of 2013. Paradoxically, the highest rates of new infection now occur in young adults and adults who present with worse clinical illness. Specific populations at greatest risk include: travelers to endemic regions, men who have sex with
Florida’s hepatitis A outbreak prompts vaccine push. [SEP] Hepatitis // restaurant between September and October 2003 were infected with the virus, three of whom died as a direct result. The outbreak was brought to the attention of health officials when local emergency medicine physicians noticed a significant increase in cases of hepatitis A in the county. After conducting its investigation, the CDC attributed the source of the outbreak to the use of contaminated raw green onion. The restaurant was purchasing its green onion stock from farms in Mexico at the time. It is believed that the green onions may have been contaminated through the use of contaminated water for crop
Florida’s hepatitis A outbreak prompts vaccine push. [SEP] Hepatitis A vaccine // to the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the following people should be vaccinated: all children over one year of age, people whose sexual activity puts them at risk, people with chronic liver disease, people who are being treated with clotting factor concentrates, people working within close proximity to the virus, and people who are living in communities where an outbreak is present. Hepatitis A is the most common vaccine-preventable virus acquired during travel, so people travelling to places where the virus is common like the Indian subcontinent, Africa, Central America, South America, the far East, and Eastern Europe
Florida’s hepatitis A outbreak prompts vaccine push. [SEP] Hepatitis E // vaccine—called HEV 239 by its developer Xiamen Innovax Biotech—was approved for prevention of hepatitis E in 2012 by the Chinese Ministry of Science and Technology, following a controlled trial on 100,000+ people from Jiangsu Province where none of those vaccinated became infected during a 12-month period, compared to 15 in the group given placebo. The first vaccine batches came out of Innovax' factory in late October 2012, to be sold to Chinese distributors.<ref name="10.1038/491021a"></ref> Due to the lack of evidence, WHO did not make a recommendation regarding routine use of the HEV 239 vaccine. National authorities may however, decide to
Florida’s hepatitis A outbreak prompts vaccine push. [SEP] Hepatitis A vaccine // recommends vaccinating adults who are at high risk and all children. Severe side effects are very rare. Pain at the site of injection occurs in about 15% of children and half of adults. Most hepatitis A vaccines contain inactivated virus while a few contain weakened virus. The ones with weakened virus are not recommended during pregnancy or in those with poor immune function. A few formulations combine hepatitis A with either hepatitis B or typhoid vaccine. The first hepatitis A vaccine was approved in Europe in 1991 and the United States in 1995. It is on the World Health Organization's
Florida’s hepatitis A outbreak prompts vaccine push. [SEP] Hepatitis A // in February 2015, a recall of frozen berries was issued after at least 19 people contracted the illness following their consumption of the product. In 2017, California (particularly around San Diego), Michigan, and Utah reported outbreaks of hepatitis A that have led to over 800 hospitalizations and 40 deaths. Hepatitis A Hepatitis A is an infectious disease of the liver caused by the hepatitis A virus (HAV). Many cases have few or no symptoms, especially in the young. The time between infection and symptoms, in those who develop them, is between two and six weeks. When symptoms occur, they typically
Florida’s hepatitis A outbreak prompts vaccine push. [SEP] Hepatitis A vaccine // Hepatitis A vaccine Hepatitis A vaccine is a vaccine that prevents hepatitis A. It is effective in around 95% of cases and lasts for at least fifteen years and possibly a person's entire life. If given, two doses are recommended beginning after the age of one. It is given by injection into a muscle. The World Health Organization (WHO) recommends universal vaccination in areas where the diseases is moderately common. Where the disease is very common, widespread vaccination is not recommended as all people typically develop immunity through infection when a child. The Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)
Florida’s hepatitis A outbreak prompts vaccine push. [SEP] Stop the Spread // Stop the Spread "Stop the Spread" was introduced by the State of Florida in 2007 as part of the African-American Testing Initiative (AATI), a program focused primarily on reaching non-Hispanic blacks unaware of their HIV infection. The objectives of the initiative include: promoting HIV testing as a routine part of overall health care; encouraging HIV testing in health care settings; and helping local testing centers increase HIV testing. The Florida Department of Health has partnered with various community testing providers in 11 Florida counties which are disproportionately affected by HIV and AIDS. Alachua, Broward, Collier, Duval, Hillsborough, Manatee, Miami-Dade, Orange,
Individuals with a high net worth are ineligible to serve in the military because they are more likely to be insubordinate. [SEP] Swiss Civilian Service // If one is unfit to serve in the military because of physical or psychological impairments, he is also deemed unfit for civilian service, even if the impairments do not render the individual unable to fulfill a specific task related to the civilian service. This is true, for example, for a disabled person in a wheelchair who is perfectly able to work in the administration of a nursing home. Unless they have very severe handicaps such as mental illness, men are excused or declared unfit to serve in the military are forced to pay a substitute fee of about 3 percent
Individuals with a high net worth are ineligible to serve in the military because they are more likely to be insubordinate. [SEP] Conscription in Israel // service, and leads to dismissal from the army. The incompatibility may stem from various reasons: When there is a surplus of recruits, the military often raises the threshold required of recruits, and grants an exemption due to incompatibility to a much larger number of recruits. In addition, there is a widespread phenomenon of granting exemption from military service because of incompatibility to female candidates who were identified as having a low medical profile and/or low motivation to serve. In such cases the reason for the exemption would usually be stated as: "Excess of female recruits." The IDF can also determine
Individuals with a high net worth are ineligible to serve in the military because they are more likely to be insubordinate. [SEP] Tsvi Misinai // the prerogative to decide which candidates for military service should do civil service in place of military service. Citizenship will carry eligibility for certain civil rights including the right to vote for the Knesset and benefits such as receipt of better social benefits for veterans including higher children's allowances. A citizen who betrays the state will lose his citizenship and be harshly punished. Similarly, a loyal resident who will abridge his oath of allegiance will lose his or her Residency rights and be deported, in particularly serious cases, after offenders complete their sentence. Only those considered to be Descendants of
Individuals with a high net worth are ineligible to serve in the military because they are more likely to be insubordinate. [SEP] Conscription in the United States // could be ordered to "alternative service" with a job "deemed to make a meaningful contribution to the maintenance of the national health, safety, and interest". The poverty draft is a controversial belief in some circles that low-income demographics are either intentionally targeted by the military for recruitment, or that their low socioeconomic status makes enlistment especially attractive, such that they are overrepresented in the armed forces. The "poverty draft" is a term describing U.S. military recruiters' purposeful tendency to focus their recruiting efforts on inner-city and poor rural schools. The low-income youth and young people of color who attend these
Individuals with a high net worth are ineligible to serve in the military because they are more likely to be insubordinate. [SEP] DREAM Act // filibuster by senators opposed to the bill. The United States military faced challenges in enlistment, which in 2005 were described as a "crisis", though the economic downturn of 2007–2010 did away with many of the enlistment challenges. Immigrants without a United States Permanent Resident Card (also known as a green card) are not allowed to enlist. In 2007, several senior officials at the Department of Defense have spoken in favor of promising resident status to members of the military as a means of boosting recruitment. The bill also restores the option for states to determine residency for purposes of higher
Individuals with a high net worth are ineligible to serve in the military because they are more likely to be insubordinate. [SEP] Military service // Even if a person is deemed fit, or partially fit for service, he may avoid having to serve if he draws a high enough number randomly. Persons who are deemed partly fit for service will however be placed lower than those who are deemed fit for service, and therefore have a very low chance of being drafted. Men deemed fit can be called upon for service until their 50th birthday in case of national crisis, regardless of whether normal conscription has been served. This right is very rarely exercised by Danish authorities. Conscientious objectors can choose to instead serve six
Individuals with a high net worth are ineligible to serve in the military because they are more likely to be insubordinate. [SEP] Persecution // to compulsory military service. A record for each potential conscript is made. Those who actually serve in the military are distinguished from those rejected from service by a Discharge Card, which has additional information on it, including the soldier's rank, military profession, and behavior during army service. Potential employers show a particular interest in Discharge Cards, since they constitute a universally available source of information about a potential employee. Employers frequently look down upon citizens rejected from the army, typically believing that "those who are unfit for army service are also unfit for the work environment", and that those who
Individuals with a high net worth are ineligible to serve in the military because they are more likely to be insubordinate. [SEP] Conscription in the United States // schools generally have fewer good educational and job opportunities than middle-class and wealthy youth and are therefore more likely to enlist. Proponents of the poverty draft view often claim that because of this the U.S. armed forces are disproportionally men and women of color and from poor and working-class backgrounds. The Selective Service System has maintained that they have implemented several reforms that would make the draft more fair and equitable. Some of the measures they have implemented include: The effort to enforce Selective Service registration law was abandoned in 1986. Since then, no attempt to reinstate conscription has been
Individuals with a high net worth are ineligible to serve in the military because they are more likely to be insubordinate. [SEP] Conscription in the United States // enlistment) rather than risk being drafted, serve for two years, and have no choice over their military occupational specialty (MOS). Of the nearly 16 million men not engaged in active military service, 57% were exempted (typically because of jobs including other military service), deferred (usually for educational reasons), or disqualified (usually for physical and mental deficiencies but also for criminal records including draft violations). The requirements for obtaining and maintaining an educational deferment changed several times in the late 1960s. For several years, students were required to take an annual qualification test. In 1967 educational deferments were changed for graduate
Individuals with a high net worth are ineligible to serve in the military because they are more likely to be insubordinate. [SEP] Military discharge // were complying with treatment and counseling; or whether the person had demerits or punishments for infractions or were convicted of any crimes. These factors affect whether they will be asked or allowed to re-enlist and whether they qualify for benefits after their discharge. There are several reasons why someone may be discharged from the military, including expiration of enlistment, disability, dependency and hardship. Members of the British Armed Forces are to complete their service obligations before they may be considered for discharge. Service personnel who attempt to leave before completing their length of service, without going through the appropriate channels,
Bill White has presided over the construction of what may be the world's largest abortion clinic. [SEP] Troy Newman (activist) // Scott Roeder's collection. In 2006, according to documents at the Sedgwick County, Kansas, Register of Deeds office, Alison White purchased the building formerly housing Central Women's Services, an abortion clinic in Wichita. White donated the former clinic to her father's anti-abortion organization, Survivors of the Abortion Holocaust. Today, the building operates as Operation Rescue's National Headquarters and contains a memorial to aborted fetuses. On September 11, 2006, the IRS revoked Operation Rescue West's 501(c)(3) nonprofit, tax-exempt status. Newman's organization now operates under the name "Operation Rescue." Following his assassination of George Tiller in 2009, Scott Roeder was interviewed by Amanda
Bill White has presided over the construction of what may be the world's largest abortion clinic. [SEP] Barbara Pyle // Sexual Health in New York City. The clinic was, at the time, the largest free-standing abortion facility in the world and the opening was scheduled to coincide with the first day that abortion up to 24 weeks became legal under a newly enacted New York State law. Pyle served as the clinic's first administrator. Barbara Pyle Barbara Y. E. Pyle is an American executive producer, filmmaker, environmental activist and media innovator who pioneered the use of broadcast programming to inform critical social and environmental issues on a global scale. She co-created and served as the executive producer on the animated
Bill White has presided over the construction of what may be the world's largest abortion clinic. [SEP] Rebecca Gomperts // was bringing non-surgical abortion services and education to countries all around the world that didn't have them. The Women on Waves mission transcends the boundaries between law, medicine, seafaring and art. Using the grant from the Mondriaan Foundation, Women on Waves rented the "Aurora", a 130-foot sport fishing boat that would host the mobile clinic. Its cargo included a thousand condoms, 120 IUD’s, 250 morning-after pills, and 20 doses of the abortion pill RU-486, along with two doctors and one nurse. Many media outlets were shocked that Gomperts was not at all concerned with her ship being detained, impounded or
Bill White has presided over the construction of what may be the world's largest abortion clinic. [SEP] Rebecca White // 2023, and would come with a package to help pubs and clubs transition to other forms of revenue. In February 2018 she declared the ALP would not be supporting the Liberals in attempting to re-introduce the state's anti-protest laws. White promised in the campaign to fund abortion clinics, after the Liberal government cut all funds to them. White married her partner, Rod Dann in a ceremony in November 2017. She has one daughter, Mia, who was less than a year old when she was elevated to the leadership, and is regularly with White on the campaign trail. Rebecca White Rebecca
Bill White has presided over the construction of what may be the world's largest abortion clinic. [SEP] Merle Hoffman // he was performing an illegal procedure. To cover for himself, he cut her up in pieces and put her remains down the drain." Hoffman co-founded and helped run Flushing Women's Medical Center (forerunner of Choices Women's Medical Center) in the borough of Queens in NYC in the spring of 1971, two years before Roe v. Wade legalized abortion nationwide. Hoffman considered many standard medical practices of the day sexist, invasive, and paternalistic. In response, she developed many of the patient-centered tenets and practices that have since become standards of female and feminist healthcare and implemented them at Flushing Women's. Hoffman's
Bill White has presided over the construction of what may be the world's largest abortion clinic. [SEP] Rebecca Gomperts // that was transformed into an abortion clinic and sailed across international waters. Rebecca Gomperts Rebecca Gomberts (born 1966) is a doctor based out of Amsterdam. She specializes in providing reproductive health services for women in countries where it is not provided. A trained abortion specialist and dedicated activist, she is generally considered the first abortion rights activist to cross international borders. Founder of Women on Waves, and Women on Web, Gomperts has dedicated her life towards saving women from illegal abortions. Unlike most medical activists, Gomperts has a background in the world of art. Using these talents to help her
Bill White has presided over the construction of what may be the world's largest abortion clinic. [SEP] Troy Newman (activist) // and from the federal Department of Justice (under the terms of the Freedom of Access to Clinic Entrances Act). In 1999, following White's resignation, Newman became president of Operation Rescue West, and for the first time was able to draw a salary from his anti-abortion work, having previously had to rely on donations from supporters. In 2002, Newman moved the headquarters of Operation Rescue West from California to Wichita, Kansas, and later changed the name of the organization to simply Operation Rescue. The name change was later the subject of an unsuccessful lawsuit from Randall Terry, the founder of the
Bill White has presided over the construction of what may be the world's largest abortion clinic. [SEP] Center for Reproductive and Sexual Health // Center for Reproductive and Sexual Health Center for Reproductive and Sexual Health (CRASH), at the time the largest freestanding abortion clinic in the world, opened in New York City after New York legalized abortion in 1970. It was run for a time by Bernard Nathanson. CRASH was ordered closed for 60 days by the New York State Health Department on September 30, 1988, following the death of a 19-year-old patient from anesthesia errors. A department spokesman said that the 60-day closure was the most they were empowered to do, and that they would push for revocation of the facility's permit.
Bill White has presided over the construction of what may be the world's largest abortion clinic. [SEP] Jane Nelson // Article II workgroup, which increased the women's health budget by $100 million and made significant new investments in mental health and Child Protective Services. In July 2013, Nelson presided over a 16-hour hearing on an abortion bill that drew testimony from over 3,800 people, including 357 who provided oral testimony. The bill, HB 3, sought to ban abortions after 20 weeks of pregnancy. The bill also required abortion facilities to upgrade to ambulatory surgical standards. Nelson and her husband, Mike Nelson, have five adult children and nine grandchildren. Jane Nelson Jane Gray Nelson (born October 5, 1951) is an American
Bill White has presided over the construction of what may be the world's largest abortion clinic. [SEP] Molly White // has since spoken out about how abortion has negatively impacted her life. She criticises the national media for not reporting on post-abortion trauma as she personally experienced. White annually lobbies before the United Nations Commission on the Status of Women in an attempt to push the organization into a conservative direction. Prior to her legislative service, she worked for passage of parental-consent laws impacting under-age women who procure an abortion and for the defunding of taxpayer money to the abortion provider Planned Parenthood. She has lobbied for mandatory medical ultrasonography screening before a woman can receive an abortion. She has
Researcher Judy Mikovits was arrested without a warrant and jailed without charges for making a controversial scientific discovery. [SEP] Judy Mikovits // 2011 by the journal Science. In October 2011, Mikovits was terminated by WPI for refusing to turn over a cell line that was delivered her laboratory by mistake, and subsequently came under investigation for alleged manipulation of data in her publications related to XMRV. On November 18, 2011, Judy Mikovits was arrested in her Ventura County, California home. Her lawyer said she was arrested on charges of theft brought by the WPI, but that the charges had no merit. By November 28, after negotiations with the WPI, 18 missing notebooks were returned. Later, the criminal charges against her were dismissed
Researcher Judy Mikovits was arrested without a warrant and jailed without charges for making a controversial scientific discovery. [SEP] Judy Mikovits // Subsequently, criminal charges brought against Mikovits by Washoe County, NV were dismissed by the District Attorney and Assistant District Attorney in Reno, NV. In 2014, Mikovits co-authored, "Plague: One Scientist’s Intrepid Search for the Truth about Human Retroviruses and Chronic Fatigue Syndrome". Judy Mikovits Judy Anne Mikovits is an American researcher. She was involved in controversies regarding her research in the area of chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS). Mikovits was the research director of the Whittemore Peterson Institute (WPI), a chronic fatigue syndrome research organization and clinic in Reno, Nevada in the United States from 2006 to 2011. Mikovits led a
Researcher Judy Mikovits was arrested without a warrant and jailed without charges for making a controversial scientific discovery. [SEP] Judy Mikovits // by the Reno, NV District Attorney's office. She got a BA in Chemistry with a specialization in biology at the University of Virginia in 1980. After graduation she went to the National Cancer Institute in Frederick Maryland where she developed purification methods for Interferon alpha. In 1986 - 1987, she started working at Upjohn Pharmaceuticals in Kalamazoo Michigan in order to develop production methods to ensure biological materials manufactured using human blood products were free of contamination from HIV-1. In 1992 she completed a joint PhD program in Biochemistry and Molecular Biology with Ruscetti at George Washington University. Because of
Researcher Judy Mikovits was arrested without a warrant and jailed without charges for making a controversial scientific discovery. [SEP] Judy Mikovits // Judy Mikovits Judy Anne Mikovits is an American researcher. She was involved in controversies regarding her research in the area of chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS). Mikovits was the research director of the Whittemore Peterson Institute (WPI), a chronic fatigue syndrome research organization and clinic in Reno, Nevada in the United States from 2006 to 2011. Mikovits led a research effort that reported in 2009 that a retrovirus known as xenotropic murine leukemia virus-related virus (XMRV) was associated with CFS and may have had a causal role, however the research came under fire, leading to an eventual retraction on December 22,
Researcher Judy Mikovits was arrested without a warrant and jailed without charges for making a controversial scientific discovery. [SEP] Judy Mikovits // criticism from some scientists for stating that XMRV is a communicable infection which is "clearly circulating through the population as is our fear and your fear". Virologist Vincent Racaniello responded to that, saying that it "is just inciting fear." Mikovits showed slides at a conference which linked XMRV to Parkinson's disease, autism and multiple sclerosis. However, there is no published evidence that XMRV is associated with these diseases. Mikovits was arrested on November 18, 2011, based on allegations by the WPI that she had removed notebooks and other proprietary information from WPI. She was held temporarily pursuant to that case.
Researcher Judy Mikovits was arrested without a warrant and jailed without charges for making a controversial scientific discovery. [SEP] Murder of Teresa Cormack // Science & Research, a Crown Research Institute owned wholly by the New Zealand government). Despite having this profile, an arrest was not immediate. A public television broadcast by the detective in charge and seen by Mikus provoked a reaction in front of the people with whom he lived but they did not contact police. Eight-hundred and forty-five blood samples had been taken, of these, four were of insufficient quality to make a profile. After nearly a year of testing the blood (taking until February 22, 2002), only one blood profile matched the semen and it came from Mikus. On 26
Researcher Judy Mikovits was arrested without a warrant and jailed without charges for making a controversial scientific discovery. [SEP] Judy Mikovits // XMRV in her CFS samples. In late 2008, a graduate student, who subsequently was hired as her technician, obtained two positive results from a group of twenty samples. He and Mikovits successively altered the experimental conditions until all samples gave a positive signal. In 2009, Mikovits and co-workers reported in the journal "Science" that they had detected XMRV DNA in CFS patients and control subjects. Negative results were published soon after, disputing Mikovits's findings. Robert Silverman, who was a co-author of the original XMRV-CFS article, told the Chicago Tribune that he was "concerned about lab contamination, despite our best efforts
Researcher Judy Mikovits was arrested without a warrant and jailed without charges for making a controversial scientific discovery. [SEP] Judy Mikovits // her previous work experience, her PhD thesis was named "“Negative Regulation of HIV Expression in Monocytes”" She was a Postdoctoral Scholar in Molecular Virology at the Laboratory of Genomic Diversity, National Cancer Institute under Dr. David Derse. Mikovits worked for Francis "Frank" Ruscetti at the National Cancer Institute in Maryland during the 1980s. She remained in his lab as a postdoctoral researcher. Her work with Ruscetti included studies of several retroviruses and their interactions with the immune system. The Whittemores hired Mikovits as research director of WPI in 2006. Frustrated by a lack of answers for the illness, Whittemore decided
Researcher Judy Mikovits was arrested without a warrant and jailed without charges for making a controversial scientific discovery. [SEP] Harrisburg Seven // Librarian Zoia Horn was jailed for nearly three weeks for refusing to testify for the prosecution on the grounds that her forced testimony would threaten intellectual and academic freedom. She was the first United States librarian to be jailed for refusing to share information as a matter of conscience. U.S. attorneys obtained an indictment charging the Harrisburg Seven with conspiracy to kidnap Kissinger and to bomb steam tunnels. They filed the case in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, seat of the Middle District. Activist attorney and former Attorney General Ramsey Clark led the defense team for their trial during the spring months of
Researcher Judy Mikovits was arrested without a warrant and jailed without charges for making a controversial scientific discovery. [SEP] Annie Dookhan // dry-labbing for as long as three years. At one point, she broke down, saying, "I messed up, I messed up bad. I don't want the lab to get in trouble." On September 28, 2012, Dookhan was arrested and charged with obstruction of justice and falsification of academic records. The latter charge came because she had claimed both on her resume and in sworn testimony to have had a master's degree in chemistry from the University of Massachusetts at Boston. However, school officials revealed that Dookhan had no such degree, and had never taken master's level classes there. On December 17,
Utah investigates 21 cases of lung disease linked to vaping. [SEP] Long-term effects of cannabis // inhaling cannabis smoke deeply and holding breath could lead to pneumothorax. In a few case reports involving immunocompromised patients, pulmonary infections such as aspergillosis have been attributed to smoking cannabis contaminated with fungi. The transmission of tuberculosis has been linked to cannabis inhalation techniques, such as sharing water pipes and 'Hotboxing'. A study released by the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine cited significant evidence for a statistical link between mothers who smoke cannabis during pregnancy and lower birth weights of their babies. Cannabis consumption in pregnancy is associated with restrictions in growth of the fetus, miscarriage, and cognitive
Utah investigates 21 cases of lung disease linked to vaping. [SEP] Safety of electronic cigarettes // the lungs. Many ingredients used in e-liquids have not been examined in the lung. The effects of e-cigarette use in respect to asthma and other respiratory diseases are unknown. A 2015 review found e-cigarettes may induce acute lung disease. A 2015 study found that e-cigarette vapors can induce oxidative stress in lung endothelial cells. Constant lung inflammation as a result of the vapor could result in lung pathogenesis and induce serious diseases, including chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and fibrosis. The limited evidence suggests that e-cigarettes produce less short-term effects on lung function than traditional cigarettes. A 2014 case report observed
Utah investigates 21 cases of lung disease linked to vaping. [SEP] Lung cancer // smokes have a 20–30% increase in risk while those who work in an environment with secondhand smoke have a 16–19% increase in risk. Investigations of sidestream smoke suggest that it is more dangerous than direct smoke. Passive smoking results in roughly 3,400 lung cancer-related deaths each year in the U.S. Marijuana smoke contains many of the same carcinogens as those in tobacco smoke. However, the effect of smoking cannabis on lung cancer risk is not clear. A 2013 review did not find an increased risk from light to moderate use. A 2014 review found that smoking cannabis doubled the risk
Utah investigates 21 cases of lung disease linked to vaping. [SEP] Long-term effects of cannabis // that inhaled cannabis is associated with lung disease, although Tashkin's 2013 review has found "no clear link to chronic obstructive pulmonary disease". Of the various methods of cannabis consumption, smoking is considered the most harmful; the inhalation of smoke from organic materials can cause various health problems (e.g., coughing and sputum). Isoprenes help to modulate and slow down reaction rates, contributing to the significantly differing qualities of partial combustion products from various sources. Smoking cannabis has been linked to adverse respiratory effects including: chronic coughing, wheezing, sputum production, and acute bronchitis. It has been suggested that the common practice of
Utah investigates 21 cases of lung disease linked to vaping. [SEP] British Lung Foundation // in the political chambers of Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales. The BLF also campaigns to raise public awareness of lung disease and the impact it has on so many lives through poster campaigns, events and by maintaining a media profile. In June 2012 the British Lung Foundation released a report looking at the health impacts of smoking cannabis. In one section, the report claimed ""each cannabis cigarette increases the chances of developing lung cancer by as much as an entire packet of 20 tobacco cigarettes"". The report referenced a 2008 study, "Cannabis use and risk of lung cancer: a case-control
Utah investigates 21 cases of lung disease linked to vaping. [SEP] Cannabis (drug) // smoking on the respiratory system. Chronic heavy marijuana smoking is associated with coughing, production of sputum, wheezing, and other symptoms of chronic bronchitis. The available evidence does not support a causal relationship between cannabis use and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Short-term use of cannabis is associated with bronchodilation. Cannabis smoke contains thousands of organic and inorganic chemical compounds. This tar is chemically similar to that found in tobacco smoke, and over fifty known carcinogens have been identified in cannabis smoke, including; nitrosamines, reactive aldehydes, and polycylic hydrocarbons, including benz[a]pyrene. Cannabis smoke is also inhaled more deeply than is tobacco smoke.
Utah investigates 21 cases of lung disease linked to vaping. [SEP] Japan Tobacco // and that cancer and other illnesses had multiple causes. On 20 January 2010 the court clearly ruled that there was a link between smoking and lung cancer and respiratory illnesses, and said that smoking may be addictive. However, the court rejected the demand for damages, and said that the plaintiffs had smoked of their own free will and that there was no proof that smoking had directly caused their sicknesses. JTI runs a series of posters designed to educate smokers about smoking etiquette. They can be seen widely around Japan, especially located near train stations. Poster gallery In 2008, Japan
Utah investigates 21 cases of lung disease linked to vaping. [SEP] Takeshi Hirayama // Hirayama published a study of 265,000 people which found an association between exposure to secondhand smoke and an increased risk of lung cancer. This study has been described as "one of the most frequently cited studies in regulatory proceedings, risk assessments, and the media" with regard to secondhand smoke. It has also been described as the first study linking secondhand smoke to lung cancer in nonsmokers, although two other studies were published around the same time with similar findings. In response to the study, the tobacco industry decided to produce a study of their own, dubbed the "Japanese spousal study",
Utah investigates 21 cases of lung disease linked to vaping. [SEP] Electronic cigarette aerosol and liquid // indicating that current evidence is insufficient to determine whether the levels of exhaled vapor are safe to involuntarily exposed bystanders. The report stated that "it is unknown if the increased exposure to toxicants and particles in exhaled aerosol will lead to an increased risk of disease and death among bystanders." The British Medical Association (BMA) reported in 2013 that there are "concerns that the use of e-cigarettes could threaten the norm of not smoking in public places and workplaces." , the only clinical study currently published evaluating the respiratory effects of passive vaping found no adverse effects were detected. A
Utah investigates 21 cases of lung disease linked to vaping. [SEP] Positions of medical organizations on electronic cigarettes // compounds emitted in some e-cigarette aerosols are 2,3-pentanedione and diacetyl, which NIOSH has linked to causing obliterative bronchiolitis, a devastating lung disease in workers. Additionally there is also a risk of burns following spontaneous combustion of the lithium battery in the device. In 2010, the American Medical Association called for e-cigarettes to be subject to the same FDA regulations as tobacco and nicotine products. The Association extended this policy in 2014, and endorsed measures aimed at preventing marketing of e-cigarettes to minors. In August 2014, the American Heart Association released a policy statement in which they noted that "current evidence
The novel coronavirus was “man-made.” [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // coronavirus researcher at the Erasmus Medical Center (EMC) in Rotterdam, The Netherlands. The second laboratory-proven case was in London, confirmed by the UK Health Protection Agency (HPA). The HPA named the virus the London1_novel CoV 2012. On 8 November 2012, in an article published in the New England Journal of Medicine, Dr. Zaki and co-authors from the Erasmus Medical Center published more details, including a scientific name, Human Coronavirus-Erasmus Medical Center (HCoV-EMC), which was then used in scientific literature. In the article, they noted four respiratory human coronaviruses (HCoV) known to be endemic: 229E, OC43, NL63, and HKU1. In May
The novel coronavirus was “man-made.” [SEP] London1 novel CoV/2012 // London1 novel CoV/2012 London1_novel CoV/2012 is the name of the novel coronavirus isolated from a Qatari man in London in 2012 who was one of the first patients to come down with what has since been named Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus. The Qatari patient had traveled to Saudi Arabia from Qatar. He returned to Qatar, but when he fell ill, he traveled to London for treatment. The United Kingdom's Health Protection Agency (HPA) named the virus. Phylogenetic analysis demonstrated that London1 is a betacoronavirus with a close relationship to Bat coronaviruses HKU4 and HKU5. It was found that the
The novel coronavirus was “man-made.” [SEP] London1 novel CoV/2012 // virus nucleic acid fragment identified in the isolate from the Qatai-London patient is derived from a novel coronavirus that is distinct from all coronaviruses previously identified. London1 novel CoV/2012 London1_novel CoV/2012 is the name of the novel coronavirus isolated from a Qatari man in London in 2012 who was one of the first patients to come down with what has since been named Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus. The Qatari patient had traveled to Saudi Arabia from Qatar. He returned to Qatar, but when he fell ill, he traveled to London for treatment. The United Kingdom's Health Protection Agency (HPA)
The novel coronavirus was “man-made.” [SEP] Coronavirus // one discovered the virus first and has the right to name it. Early in 2005, a research team at the University of Hong Kong reported finding a fifth human coronavirus in two patients with pneumonia. They named it Human coronavirus HKU1. In September 2012, a sixth new type of coronavirus was identified, initially called Novel Coronavirus 2012, and now officially Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV). The World Health Organisation accordingly issued a global alert. The WHO update on 28 September 2012 said that the virus did not seem to pass easily from person to person. However, on May 12,
The novel coronavirus was “man-made.” [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // published in "The New England Journal of Medicine" indicated that camel to human transmission of the virus was possible. In November 2013, a man became ill with MERS after tending to a sick camel. DNA samples taken from the man, who eventually died of the virus, and the sick animal were virtually identical providing very strong evidence the man had got the virus from the camel. On 20 May 2013, the novel coronavirus reached Tunisia killing one man and infecting two of his relatives. Tunisia was the eighth country to be affected by MERS-CoV after Jordan, Saudi Arabia, Qatar, the
The novel coronavirus was “man-made.” [SEP] Human coronavirus HKU1 // these cases, French investigators utilized improved techniques for recovering the virus from nasopharyngeal aspirates and from stool samples. Human coronavirus HKU1 Human coronavirus HKU1 (HCoV-HKU1) is a positive-sense, single-stranded RNA virus with the HE gene, which distinguishes it as a group 2, or betacoronavirus. It was discovered in January 2005 in two patients in Hong Kong. HCoV-HKU1 was first identified in January, 2005, in a 71-year-old man who was hospitalized with an acute respiratory distress and radiolographically confirmed bilateral pneumonia. The man had recently returned to Hong Kong from Shenzhen, China. Woo, et al., were unsuccessful in their attempts to
The novel coronavirus was “man-made.” [SEP] Coronavirus // of a vaccine against the disease "since [the spike protein] appears to be recognized by the immune system of the host." Following the high-profile publicity of SARS outbreaks, there has been a renewed interest in coronaviruses among virologists. For many years, scientists knew about only two human coronaviruses (HCoV-229E and HCoV-OC43). The discovery of SARS-CoV added a third human coronavirus. By the end of 2004, three independent research labs reported the discovery of a fourth human coronavirus. It has been named NL63, NL, and the New Haven coronavirus by different research groups. The three labs are still arguing over which
The novel coronavirus was “man-made.” [SEP] Coronavirus // 2013, a case of contamination from human to human in France was confirmed by the French Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. In addition, cases of person-to-person transmission have been reported by the Ministry of Health in Tunisia. Two confirmed cases seem to have caught the disease from their late father, who became ill after a visit to Qatar and Saudi Arabia. By Oct. 30 2013, there were 124 cases and 52 deaths in Saudi Arabia. After the Dutch Erasmus Medical Centre sequenced the virus, the virus was given a new name, Human Corona Virus-Erasmus Medical Centre (HCoV-EMC). The final
The novel coronavirus was “man-made.” [SEP] SARS conspiracy theory // has been made globally available. Naysayers insist there has been no evidence found of genetic engineering in the genome. The SARS coronavirus is novel, they say, but this only implies it has mutated or was previously undiscovered, not that it is genetically engineered. Epidemiologists in support of the theory say it implies artificial introduction of the disease into the population. Many disregard the Chinese and Russian scientists' research as merely propaganda and an impossibility. Coronaviruses similar to SARS have been found in bats in China, suggesting they may be their natural reservoir. However scientists report that the genome of the
The novel coronavirus was “man-made.” [SEP] Coronavirus // in a small number of nucleotides. In 2003, following the outbreak of Severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) which had begun the prior year in Asia, and secondary cases elsewhere in the world, the World Health Organization (WHO) issued a press release stating that a novel coronavirus identified by a number of laboratories was the causative agent for SARS. The virus was officially named the SARS coronavirus (SARS-CoV). The epidemic resulted in over 8,000 infections, about 10% of which resulted in death. X-ray crystallography studies performed at the Advanced Light Source of Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory have begun to give hope
High ambitions: Uruguay cannabis firm targets booming global market for medical marijuana. [SEP] Minors and the legality of cannabis // are met. Uruguay legalized cannabis in 2014. Uruguay is the first nation in the world to regulate all aspects of the cannabis market (production, sales, and consumption) for those that are at least 18 years old. The reason for its proposed legalization was to get rid of the organized crime and violence that came along with the illegal drug industry. Their efforts to legalize the drug were not done because of social pressure, but more so out of the efforts to protect society from the dangers that are produced from an illegal market. Uruguay’s government wanted to seize the market
High ambitions: Uruguay cannabis firm targets booming global market for medical marijuana. [SEP] Cannabis in Uruguay // grows had already begun, but commercial sale had not, and would ultimately be delayed until late 2017. Vázquez, a former oncologist, promised a "strict and close evaluation" of legal cannabis, and declared "first of all, you shouldn’t consume drugs." In 2017, the government authorized 16 pharmacies to become cannabis distributors, allowed to sell only to the nearly 5,000 cannabis consumers registered with the government. The product is standardized into two offerings, "Alfa 1" and "Beta 1", both with relatively low THC content. Registered consumers must be Uruguayan, 18 or older, and are limited to 40 grams per month, with their
High ambitions: Uruguay cannabis firm targets booming global market for medical marijuana. [SEP] Cannabis in Uruguay // coordinated through the existing agency that monitors tobacco, alcohol, and pharmaceuticals. He estimated that with 70,000 users, the country will have to produce more than 5,000 pounds each month. He also stated: "Uruguay wants to make a 'contribution to humanity' by legalising marijuana but will backtrack if the 'experiment' goes awry". On 31 July 2013, the Chamber of Deputies passed the bill to legalize and regulate the production and sale of cannabis and sent it to the country's Senate. The bill was approved by 50 affirmative votes (the minimum required) with all Deputies from the ruling Broad Front voting in
High ambitions: Uruguay cannabis firm targets booming global market for medical marijuana. [SEP] Cannabis in Uruguay // polls in 2012–2013 by Equipos Mori, Cifra and Factum, 58-66% of Uruguayans opposed legalizing the sale of marijuana while 24-29% supported it. Cannabis in Uruguay Cannabis is legal in Uruguay, and is one of the most widely used drugs in the nation. President Jose Mujica signed legislation to legalize recreational cannabis in December 2013, making Uruguay the first country in the modern era to legalize cannabis. In August 2014, Uruguay legalized growing up to six plants at home, as well as the formation of growing clubs, a state-controlled marijuana dispensary regime, and the creation of a Cannabis regulatory institute (IRCCA
High ambitions: Uruguay cannabis firm targets booming global market for medical marijuana. [SEP] Cannabis in Uruguay // identity and registration confirmed at the point of sale with a fingerprint scanner. Since the drug was legalised in Uruguay, production for personal use and the establishment of cannabis clubs were successful. Distribution via pharmacies has remained sluggish. The main reason is the boycott of large international banks. Monitor Cannabis, a scholars' platform, assesses that the actual demand in Uruguay is much higher, since the national drug commission estimates that more than 160,000 people in the country consume cannabis. That would imply that the legal market share amounts to no more than 20%;with the rest being black market According to
High ambitions: Uruguay cannabis firm targets booming global market for medical marijuana. [SEP] Cannabis in Uruguay // Cannabis in Uruguay Cannabis is legal in Uruguay, and is one of the most widely used drugs in the nation. President Jose Mujica signed legislation to legalize recreational cannabis in December 2013, making Uruguay the first country in the modern era to legalize cannabis. In August 2014, Uruguay legalized growing up to six plants at home, as well as the formation of growing clubs, a state-controlled marijuana dispensary regime, and the creation of a Cannabis regulatory institute (IRCCA in Spanish). In October 2014 the Government began registering growers' clubs, allowed in turn to grow a maximum of 99 cannabis plants
High ambitions: Uruguay cannabis firm targets booming global market for medical marijuana. [SEP] Latin American drug legalization // December 10, 2013: A government-sponsored bill approved by a 16-13 vote in the Senate provides for regulation of the cultivation, distribution and consumption of marijuana and is aimed at wresting the business from criminals in the small South American nation. Backers outside the court house paraded signs declaring, "Cultivating freedom, Uruguay grows." In April 2014, Uruguay will be the first country to have legal recreational cannabis. Consumers will be able to buy a maximum of 40 grams (1.4 ounces) each month from licensed pharmacies as long as they are Uruguayan residents over the age of 18. Buyers will be registered
High ambitions: Uruguay cannabis firm targets booming global market for medical marijuana. [SEP] Cannabis in Uruguay // leaders to do the same. Nobel prize winner Mario Vargas Llosa praised the decision as "courageous". The law intends to reduce the profit that drug trafficking creates for organized crime, as well as reducing the drug-related violence and the social problems associated with it. Uruguay has one of the lowest murder rates in the region (though by some estimates, crime was slightly increasing in 2013). Mujica's plan would allow users to cultivate the plant for non-commercial uses and grant licenses to professional farmers for larger scale production. The plan includes a system of; user registry, taxation, and quality control; all
High ambitions: Uruguay cannabis firm targets booming global market for medical marijuana. [SEP] Cannabis in Uruguay // illegal to move it across international borders. In July 2014 president José Mujica announced that the full implementation of the law would be postponed to 2015, as "there are practical difficulties". Authorities will grow all the cannabis that can be sold legally, and concentrations of THC shall be 15% or lower. In August 2014, an opposition presidential candidate claimed that the new law was unworkable and would never be applied. In December 2014, President Tabaré Vázquez was elected, and stated that though he had concerns about the cannabis law, ultimately it would move forward. At that point, personal and club
High ambitions: Uruguay cannabis firm targets booming global market for medical marijuana. [SEP] Cannabis industry // suit [lobbyist] is not a good sign." Cannabis in Uruguay was legalized for adult use in December, 2013. Sales of marijuana are regulated through government distribution with a state-mandated price of $1.30 per gram . Access to marijuana is legal through four sources: medical marijuana through the Ministry of Health, home-grown marijuana, membership clubs, and sales to adults in drugstores . Canada is set to become the second country to legalize adult-use of marijuana with Bill C-45 on July 1, 2018 Cannabis in Canada. As of December 2017, there are 79 licensed marijuana producers in Canada with most concentrated in
House Bill 330 "grants immunity from liability to motorists who strike protesters. [SEP] Ryan Gatti // motorists, however the bill stalled in committee. SB 35 required explosive companies to carry $50 million in liability coverage; however, the bill did not pass. This bill was filed in response to the bankruptcy of Explo, LLC after an explosion that occurred in Gatti's district. SB 36 would have excluded doctors from the $500,000.00 medical malpractice cap for advertising as a specialist when they were not so certified. SB 37 protected military families with special needs children when they relocated to Louisiana by putting those families as the front of the line for services for their children. The bill was
House Bill 330 "grants immunity from liability to motorists who strike protesters. [SEP] Timothy M. Kennedy (politician) // state's legal immunity for claims for damages. The legislation would specifically amend Section 58 of the State Highway Law, which immunizes the state from "liability for damages arising from defects in its highways" during cold-weather months. The bill proposed by Kennedy "would allow motorists to seek damages from the state for 'egregious or unreasonable' defects year-round or when it was given prior notice of a defect." State Assemblyman Thomas J. Abinanti filed companion legislation in the State Assembly. Kennedy was a supporter of the legalization of mixed martial arts (MMA) in New York, which at the time was the only
House Bill 330 "grants immunity from liability to motorists who strike protesters. [SEP] Vehicle-ramming attack // Two police officers were suspended and fired in January and June 2016, respectively, for tweeting such advice in relation to Black Lives Matter rallies, which have sometimes been broken up by cars. North Dakota state legislator Keith Kempenich tried and failed to pass a law granting civil immunity to drivers who accidentally hit activists, after his mother-in-law was stopped by Dakota Access Pipeline protesters, and Tennessee Senator Bill Ketron did likewise after a man hit an anti-Trump group. Similar legislation has been introduced in Florida and Texas. After the white supremacist Unite the Right rally, in which a anti-fascist protestor
House Bill 330 "grants immunity from liability to motorists who strike protesters. [SEP] Kristie's Law // safety, as well as compensation for innocent victims, twisting in the wind." In 2005, Peace Officers Research Association of California (PORAC) sponsored California Senate Bill 719. "This bill would narrow the available immunity for public entities that employ peace officers when a third party is injured or killed in a collision with a person fleeing from peace officer pursuit. Such entities would be immune only if they: (1) adopted and promulgated a policy for safe conduct of motor vehicle pursuits that met minimum state standards; and (2) provided regular and periodic training for their officers regarding safe pursuits." Senate Bill
House Bill 330 "grants immunity from liability to motorists who strike protesters. [SEP] Preventing Persons from Concealing Their Identity during Riots and Unlawful Assemblies Act // by the group Anonymous. Preventing Persons from Concealing Their Identity during Riots and Unlawful Assemblies Act Bill C-309 is a private member's bill, criminalising the actions of protesters who cover their faces during tumultuous demonstrations and introducing a five-year prison sentence for the offence, introduced before the House of Commons of Canada in October 2011 during the 41st Parliament. On February 15, 2012, a 190-97 vote confirmed that the bill would enter a second reading and be sent to the House Standing Committee on Justice and Human Rights. The proposal was introduced in the context of the 2012 Quebec student
House Bill 330 "grants immunity from liability to motorists who strike protesters. [SEP] Preventing Persons from Concealing Their Identity during Riots and Unlawful Assemblies Act // Preventing Persons from Concealing Their Identity during Riots and Unlawful Assemblies Act Bill C-309 is a private member's bill, criminalising the actions of protesters who cover their faces during tumultuous demonstrations and introducing a five-year prison sentence for the offence, introduced before the House of Commons of Canada in October 2011 during the 41st Parliament. On February 15, 2012, a 190-97 vote confirmed that the bill would enter a second reading and be sent to the House Standing Committee on Justice and Human Rights. The proposal was introduced in the context of the 2012 Quebec student protests, and the riots
House Bill 330 "grants immunity from liability to motorists who strike protesters. [SEP] James Joseph Richardson // Scott signed into law House Bill 227, which provides compensation to a wrongfully incarcerated person who was convicted and sentenced prior to December 31, 1979, and who is otherwise exempt from other state provisions for compensation because the case may have been reversed by a special prosecutor’s review and "nolle prosequi" rather than being overturned by a court. The law is so narrowly circumscribed that it is likely that Richardson will be the only individual eligible for compensation under it. He is expected to be awarded $1.2 million. , he has not yet received any payment. In 2015, a documentary
House Bill 330 "grants immunity from liability to motorists who strike protesters. [SEP] Protests against Donald Trump // "economic activity." A bill in Minnesota would allow the police to sue demonstrators for the cost of policing protests. The bill proposed in Tennessee would allow anyone who injures a protester with their car "civil immunity" as long as the driver was not being reckless. The proposed bill in Indiana would allow law enforcement to "use any means necessary" to clear people who block traffic. Republican lawmaker J. D. Mesnard said that these laws are "not about limiting people's rights." In addition to the many in-person protests, there has also been Anti-Trump activism on social media. This activism has been
House Bill 330 "grants immunity from liability to motorists who strike protesters. [SEP] Shooting of Trayvon Martin // leader, would clarify language in the law to deny aggressors in a confrontation from being able to claim immunity under the law, would allow innocent bystanders harmed by a person standing his or her ground to sue for negligence, and would require the establishment of guidelines and training protocols for neighborhood watch programs that would restrict neighborhood watch volunteers to only observing and reporting. The proposal was received favorably by the Florida Department of Law Enforcement, the Florida Sheriffs Association, the state public defenders association, and the NAACP, although several Republican state legislators voted to block the bill's passage and
House Bill 330 "grants immunity from liability to motorists who strike protesters. [SEP] Right of self-defense in Maryland // himself or herself still runs the risk of being sued by the attacker for monetary damages. In 2010, the Maryland General Assembly passed, and Governor Martin O'Malley signed, a bill to address this issue and to provide for an immunity to such civil lawsuits in certain cases in which a person used force, including deadly force, to defend his or her home or business. The statute — § 5-808 of the Courts and Judicial Proceedings Article of the Maryland Code — provides as follows: The statute essentially codifies the common law rule of self-defense. It is arguable that the statute
Viscosupplementation Recommended For Appropriate Patients with Knee Osteoarthritis [SEP] Osteoarthritis // Osteotomy may be useful in people with knee osteoarthritis, but has not been well studied and it is unclear whether it is more effective than non-surgical treatments or other types of surgery. Arthroscopic surgery is largely not recommended, as it does not improve outcomes in knee osteoarthritis, and may result in harm. For people who have shoulder osteoarthritis and do not respond to pharmaceutical approaches, surgical options include a shoulder hemiarthroplasty (replacing a part of the joint), and total shoulder arthroplasty (replacing the joint). The effectiveness of glucosamine is controversial. Reviews have found it to be equal to or slightly
Viscosupplementation Recommended For Appropriate Patients with Knee Osteoarthritis [SEP] Knee replacement // replacement surgery is most commonly performed in people with advanced osteoarthritis and should be considered when conservative treatments have been exhausted. Total knee replacement is also an option to correct significant knee joint or bone trauma in young patients. Similarly, total knee replacement can be performed to correct mild valgus or varus deformity. Serious valgus or varus deformity should be corrected by osteotomy. Physical therapy has been shown to improve function and may delay or prevent the need for knee replacement. Pain is often noted when performing physical activities requiring a wide range of motion in the knee joint. Risks
Viscosupplementation Recommended For Appropriate Patients with Knee Osteoarthritis [SEP] Knee replacement // and ligament tears. Debilitating pain from osteoarthritis is much more common in the elderly. Knee replacement surgery can be performed as a partial or a total knee replacement. In general, the surgery consists of replacing the diseased or damaged joint surfaces of the knee with metal and plastic components shaped to allow continued motion of the knee. The operation typically involves substantial postoperative pain, and includes vigorous physical rehabilitation. The recovery period may be 6 weeks or longer and may involve the use of mobility aids (e.g. walking frames, canes, crutches) to enable the patient's return to preoperative mobility. Knee
Viscosupplementation Recommended For Appropriate Patients with Knee Osteoarthritis [SEP] Osteoarthritis // manual therapy is inconclusive. Functional, gait, and balance training have been recommended to address impairments of position sense, balance, and strength in individuals with lower extremity arthritis as these can contribute to a higher rate of falls in older individuals. For people with hand osteoarthritis, exercises may provide small benefits for improving hand function, reducing pain, and relieving finger joint stiffness. Lateral wedge insoles and neutral insoles do not appear to be useful in osteoarthritis of the knee. Knee braces may help but their usefulness has also been disputed. For pain management heat can be used to relieve stiffness, and
Viscosupplementation Recommended For Appropriate Patients with Knee Osteoarthritis [SEP] Arthroscopic lavage // the damage of early arthritis. There is, however, controversy about the value of simple lavage and debridement for the older patient with established osteoarthritis. Needle lavage should not be used in an attempt to treat persons seeking long-term relief for symptomatic osteoarthritis of the knee. The use of this treatment in this case has not been shown to decrease pain, stiffness, tenderness, or swelling, or to increase 50-foot walking time or body function. Arthroscopic lavage is generally combined with arthroscopic debridement, where fronds of joint material or degenerative tissue are removed using a combination of injected fluid and a small
Viscosupplementation Recommended For Appropriate Patients with Knee Osteoarthritis [SEP] Arthroscopy // might be performed in order to visually check other parts of the knee and to insert the miniature instruments that are used to perform surgical procedures. The BMJ Rapid Recommendations group makes a strong recommendation against arthroscopy for osteoarthritis on the basis that there is high quality evidence that there is no lasting benefit and less than 15% of people have a small short-term benefit. There are rare but serious adverse effects that can occur, including venous thromboembolism, infections, and nerve damage The BMJ Rapid Recommendation includes infographics and shared decision making tools to facilitate a conversation between doctors and
Viscosupplementation Recommended For Appropriate Patients with Knee Osteoarthritis [SEP] Osteotomy // the first two months after surgery may jeopardize healing. Patients must exercise extreme caution during all activities, including walking, until healing is complete. After rehabilitation, preventing osteoarthritis involves slowing the progression and spread of the disease. Maintaining aerobic cardiovascular fitness has been an effective method for preventing the progression of osteoarthritis. Light, daily exercise is much better for an arthritic knee than occasional, heavy exercise. It is especially important to avoid any serious knee injuries, such as torn ligaments or fractured bones, because arthritis can complicate knee injury treatment. High-impact or repetitive stress sports, like football and distance running, should
Viscosupplementation Recommended For Appropriate Patients with Knee Osteoarthritis [SEP] Osteoarthritis // can provide on average 20% more pain relief when compared to NSAIDs alone in patients with hip osteoarthritis. Moderate exercise may be beneficial with respect to pain and function in those with osteoarthritis of the knee and hip. These exercises should occur at least three times per week. While some evidence supports certain physical therapies, evidence for a combined program is limited. Providing clear advice, making exercises enjoyable, and reassuring people about the importance of doing exercises may lead to greater benefit and more participation. There is not enough evidence to determine the effectiveness of massage therapy. The evidence for
Viscosupplementation Recommended For Appropriate Patients with Knee Osteoarthritis [SEP] Knee replacement // Knee replacement Knee replacement, also known as knee arthroplasty, is a surgical procedure to replace the weight-bearing surfaces of the knee joint to relieve pain and disability. It is most commonly performed for osteoarthritis, and also for other knee diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis and psoriatic arthritis. In patients with severe deformity from advanced rheumatoid arthritis, trauma, or long-standing osteoarthritis, the surgery may be more complicated and carry higher risk. Osteoporosis does not typically cause knee pain, deformity, or inflammation and is not a reason to perform knee replacement Other major causes of debilitating pain include meniscus tears, cartilage defects,
Viscosupplementation Recommended For Appropriate Patients with Knee Osteoarthritis [SEP] Osteotomy // side. Removing just a small wedge of bone can "swing" the knee open, pressing the healthy tissue together as space opens up between the femur and tibia on the damaged side so that the arthritic surfaces do not rub against each other. Osteotomy is also used as an alternative treatment to total knee replacement in younger and active patients. Because prosthetic knees may wear out over time, an osteotomy procedure can enable younger, active osteoarthritis patients to continue using the healthy portion of their knee. The procedure can delay the need for a total knee replacement for up to ten
A Japanese man was found dead months after being crushed by huge pile of pornography. [SEP] Mark Errin Rust // woman who he then masturbated in front of in Cumberland Park. One day after this offence, on August 3, 2001, he stalked and murdered Megumi Suzuki, aged 18. After Suzuki's murder he disposed of her body in a rubbish bin. He revealed this detail to police after his arrest, leading to a police search of more than 10,000 tonnes of rubbish before her body was discovered in December 2001, at a waste disposal facility in Wingfield, South Australia. Her body was later returned to Japan to be buried. The body of Maya Jakic was returned to Croatia, where she was
A Japanese man was found dead months after being crushed by huge pile of pornography. [SEP] Nozomi Momoi // man had burned himself to death inside the car. The remains were so badly charred that it took hours of testing before investigators could even determine that the remains belonged to a male. According to the "Mainichi Shimbun", "Nozomi seemed to have something Japan's myriad other porno starlets lacked and, at just 24, she was on her way up in the world before her tragic end." In the months after the incident, the parents of Momoi's male companion objected to the murder-suicide theory and many inconsistencies were pointed out. His parents unsuccessfully brought a case against the local police and
A Japanese man was found dead months after being crushed by huge pile of pornography. [SEP] Sayama incident // policemen surrounding the site. Although a man came to her and exchanged words, he became suspicious and escaped into the night before the police could catch him. On the morning on May 4, the dead body of the victim was found buried in an alley on a farm. Police determined that she was raped, then murdered. The media criticized the police for failing to catch the possible suspect, the same mistake made during the kidnapping case of Yoshinobu Murakoshi, which had occurred only one month earlier. On May 6, the day before his wedding, a man from the same neighborhood
A Japanese man was found dead months after being crushed by huge pile of pornography. [SEP] Tatsumi Kumashiro // Video) industry took away most of the audience for the theatrical "Roman pornos", Kumashiro's health began failing. He suffered from a collapsed lung in 1983, but, in spite of his poor health, he continued making films until his death. He directed his last two films, "Like a Rolling Stone" ("Bo no Kanashimi") (1994) and "Immoral: Indecent Relations" (1995) while using an oxygen tank. He died of heart and lung failure on February 24, 1995. Kumashiro is remembered with affection by those who worked with him, and is considered one of the best directors to have worked in the Roman Porno
A Japanese man was found dead months after being crushed by huge pile of pornography. [SEP] Murder of Junko Furuta // in her coffin. The location near where Furuta's body was discovered has been developed since and is now Wakasu park. At least three Japanese-language books have been written about the incident. An exploitation film, "Joshikōsei konkurīto-zume satsujin-jiken" (, "Concrete-Encased High School Girl Murder Case"), was made about the incident by Katsuya Matsumura in 1995. Yujin Kitagawa (later a member of the music duo Yuzu) played the role of the principal culprit. Seiji Fujii wrote a novel about the case, "17-sai" ("Seventeen years old"), which was turned into a manga by Yōji Kamata. Contrary to what had really happened, the novel
A Japanese man was found dead months after being crushed by huge pile of pornography. [SEP] Randy Kraft // had been forced into his rectum. Six weeks after the murder of Moore, the body of an unidentified male, estimated to be around 17 to 25 years old, was found alongside the Terminal Island Freeway in Los Angeles. This victim had been strangled by a ligature and had also had a sock placed in his rectum. Two months later, on April 9, the body of 17-year-old Kevin Bailey was found beside a road in Huntington Beach. Bailey had been emasculated and sodomized prior to his murder. By July 28, a further two victims had been murdered: an unidentified youth whose
A Japanese man was found dead months after being crushed by huge pile of pornography. [SEP] Manga Murder // assisted by his supernatural notebook, trying to cleanse the world of criminals. The case received much attention from the Japanese media. On Friday, September 28, 2007, parts of a mutilated corpse, the torso and two thighs, were found in Parc Duden/Dudenpark in Forest, Brussels, by two pedestrians who happened to notice the smell of the rotting parts. A short while later the two notes referring to the "Death Note" series were found nearby. The detectives working the case were unable to identify the victim, because so many body parts were missing. What they did conclude was: The detectives mentioned a
A Japanese man was found dead months after being crushed by huge pile of pornography. [SEP] Tomie (film series) // that in the months following the crime, nine students and one teacher have either committed suicide or gone insane. The detective assigned to the case (Tomoro Taguchi) learns that three years prior another Tomie Kawakami was murdered in rural Gifu prefecture. Other slain Tomie Kawakamis are discovered stretching all the way back to the 1860s, right when Japan began to modernize. The detective tracks down one of Tomie's classmates called Tsukiko Izumisawa (Mami Nakamura), an art student who is being treated for amnesia. She has absolutely no memory of the three-month period around Tomie's death. Meanwhile, Tsukiko's neighbor (Kota Kusano)
A Japanese man was found dead months after being crushed by huge pile of pornography. [SEP] Sada Abe // She spent the day writing farewell letters to Ōmiya, a friend, and Ishida. She planned to commit suicide one week after the murder, and practiced necrophilia. "I felt attached to Ishida's penis and thought that only after taking leave from it quietly could I then die. I unwrapped the paper holding them and gazed at his penis and scrotum. I put his penis in my mouth and even tried to insert it inside me ... It didn't work however though I kept trying and trying. Then, I decided that I would flee to Osaka, staying with Ishida's penis all the
A Japanese man was found dead months after being crushed by huge pile of pornography. [SEP] Jiro Sato // suicide theory. Two iron davit-winding handles and a training skip-rope were missing, which Sato probably used to tie weights on himself to make sure he would drown. After discovery of the new evidence, the ship sent out a radio message stating that "Japan's finest tennis player and national hero was believed to have committed suicide by throwing himself overboard". On April 6, a prayer was ministered by his friends who assembled on the deck of the ship. An altar was built on board with photographs and racquets of Sato around it. Also a traditional Japanese "cake offering" ceremony was held.
The family of Anne Frank sought (and was denied) refugee status in the United States. [SEP] Anne Frank // processed, due to circumstances such as the closing of the U.S. consulate in Rotterdam and the loss of all the paperwork there, including the visa application. Even if it had been processed, the U.S. government at the time was concerned that people with close relatives still in Germany could be blackmailed into becoming Nazi spies. The Frank sisters were excelling in their studies and had many friends, but with the introduction of a decree that Jews could attend only Jewish schools, they were enrolled at the Jewish Lyceum. Anne became a friend of Jacqueline van Maarsen in the Lyceum. In
The family of Anne Frank sought (and was denied) refugee status in the United States. [SEP] Nathan Straus Jr. // United States. Despite receiving help from Nathan Jr. and other connections, the Franks' visa applications were denied. Ultimately, the entire Frank family was interned in Nazi concentration camps, with Otto the only member to survive to the end of World War II. In the years that followed, Otto published the diary of his daughter, Anne Frank, which described the family's life while hiding from the Nazis in Amsterdam. That work, known in English as "The Diary of a Young Girl" or "The Diary of Anne Frank", is one of the most well known books about The Holocaust. It has been
The family of Anne Frank sought (and was denied) refugee status in the United States. [SEP] Anne Frank // Pectacon as an advisor about spices. A Jewish butcher, he had fled Osnabrück with his family. In 1939, Edith Frank's mother came to live with the Franks, and remained with them until her death in January 1942. In May 1940, Germany invaded the Netherlands, and the occupation government began to persecute Jews by the implementation of restrictive and discriminatory laws; mandatory registration and segregation soon followed. Otto Frank tried to arrange for the family to emigrate to the United States – the only destination that seemed to him to be viable – but Frank's application for a visa was never
The family of Anne Frank sought (and was denied) refugee status in the United States. [SEP] Anne Mactavish // international law Nuremberg Principle IV put them under legal obligation to avoid participating in the invasion of Iraq and the Iraq war. In order to avoid the punishment for desertion which they would face if they returned to the United States, they applied for refugee status in Canada. When Mactavish ruled against Jeremy Hinzman's application for refugee status on March 31, 2006, there was the following press coverage: Coverage included the following criticism from Alex Neve, who taught international human rights and refugee law at Osgoode Hall Law School, and who was appointed an Officer of the Order of Canada,
The family of Anne Frank sought (and was denied) refugee status in the United States. [SEP] Posthumous citizenship // other individuals or groups. In 2004 and again in 2007, Congressman Steve Israel sponsored a bill to grant posthumous citizenship to Anne Frank. Her cousin Bernhard Elias expressed misgivings about the idea, stating that Anne herself had wanted to be Dutch, and others including Emory University Institute for Jewish Studies director Deborah Lipstadt stated that the United States should not have the right to claim Frank's legacy after having rebuffed the efforts of her family and thousands of other Jewish refugees from Europe to immigrate to the United States in the early years of World War II. In 2013, Daniel
The family of Anne Frank sought (and was denied) refugee status in the United States. [SEP] Hanneli Goslar // who lived in the same area but attended a different school, and later with Ilse Wagner and Jacqueline van Maarsen. In 1943, Hannah, her father, her maternal grandparents, along with Hannah's younger sister Gabriela ("Gabi"), were arrested and sent to the Westerbork transit camp, and then eventually to the exchange camp of Bergen-Belsen. Hannah was in a privileged section of the camp because her family had Palestine passports with them. Sometime between January-February 1945, Hannah was briefly reunited with Anne Frank, who was a less privileged prisoner imprisoned at the other side of the camp. Hannah passed Anne a package
The family of Anne Frank sought (and was denied) refugee status in the United States. [SEP] Homeschooling international status and statistics // decision by a U.S. appeals court overruled this and denied the petition for asylum, on the grounds that Germany's law applies to every resident, and does not single out any specific religious group for persecution. A petition of March 2013 for granting full and permanent legal status to the family received a White House reply in August 2013 without comment on the legal case. In March 2014, the Supreme Court declined to hear the family's appeal, but the Department of Homeland Security granted the family indefinite deferred action status, allowing them to remain in the United States. In February 2015,
The family of Anne Frank sought (and was denied) refugee status in the United States. [SEP] Edith Frank // rise of Antisemitism and the introduction of discriminatory laws in Germany forced the family to emigrate to Amsterdam in 1933, where Otto established a branch of his spice and pectin distribution company. Her older brothers Walter (1897–1968) and Julius (1894–1967) escaped to the United States in 1938, and Rosa Holländer-Stern left Aachen in 1939 to join the Frank family in Amsterdam. Anne Frank's cousin Bernhard ("Buddy") Elias has said that "Edith never felt well in Holland. Edith was "German", and she missed Germany. She did not learn Dutch very well. She did not feel at home in Amsterdam." In 1940
The family of Anne Frank sought (and was denied) refugee status in the United States. [SEP] 2011–12 Los Angeles arson attacks // from the Nazis and their sympathizers," however the claims were denied. The minister of citizenship and immigration personally intervened in the Burkharts' case and requested that they be barred from refugee protection. The refugee claim was denied in 2009 and denied again by Canada's federal courts in 2010. Immigration officials believed Harry Burkhart was in the United States on a visa that was due to expire within two weeks of his arrest, but they could not find a visa file for Dorothee Burkhart. The government later said that it believed that Dorothee had entered illegally. Court documents identified her as
The family of Anne Frank sought (and was denied) refugee status in the United States. [SEP] Margot Frank // She took Hebrew classes, attended synagogue, and in 1941 joined a Dutch Zionist club for young people who wanted to immigrate to Palestine to found a Jewish state, where, according to Anne, she wished to become a midwife. On July 5, 1942, she received a notice to report to a labor camp and the next day went into hiding with her family at her father's office building. They were later joined by four other Jewish refugees and remained hidden for two years until they were betrayed on August 4, 1944. Along with the other occupants of the hiding place, Margot
An official Los Angeles Police Department (LAPD) badge page used badge number "14188" as its example (later deleted). [SEP] Los Angeles Police Department resources // Broadway Street at the Footlocker. Suspect was a male, white, six-foot seven, approximately 280 pounds; shaved head, black eyes, goatee, white T-shirt, dark baggy pants. Weapon used was a revolver. Monitor comments for additional. Code 2. Incident number 555 in RD 193." "Control" (the radio name for Communications division) as well as units in the area also use a wide variety of codes, common ones include: NOTE: A unit that responds "Code-3" must state their starting location (e.g. intersection or street address), after which the RTO broadcasts a "Code 3 notification", announcing the unit number is responding "Code-3" from that
An official Los Angeles Police Department (LAPD) badge page used badge number "14188" as its example (later deleted). [SEP] Michael Knight (Knight Rider) // his LAPD rookie days," whose daughter Stacy got injured during an illegal street race during Season 3 episode "Knights of the Fast Lane." Michael was subsequently promoted to detective sergeant, and finally to detective lieutenant with the LAPD's 11th precinct, in which his badge number was 4262. He used to reside at 1834 Shoreborne Avenue, Wilmington, California, in the zip code 90744. This was, presumably, in 1982. After 10 years on the force, during the night of August 8, 1982 – while on special assignment from the LAPD as an undercover Security Guard for Consolidated Chemical Corporation in Las Vegas,
An official Los Angeles Police Department (LAPD) badge page used badge number "14188" as its example (later deleted). [SEP] Los Angeles Police Department resources // the "beat" number. For example, division 1 is Central Division (or, now, "Central Area"), an "A" is patrol unit with two officers and their patrol area number can be a number like 12. Such a unit would identify themselves as 1-A-12 (or 1-Adam-12, using the LAPD phonetic alphabet). There are several patrol types: The immediate supervisor of any patrol officer is called a Field Supervisor, which typically have beats that end in zero beginning from 2 through 7 (for example, 7-L-60 for a Wilshire Area supervisor). The Watch commander is a usually a lieutenant I at a geographic division. Their
An official Los Angeles Police Department (LAPD) badge page used badge number "14188" as its example (later deleted). [SEP] Los Angeles Police Department resources // police vehicles bear at least two rear bumper stickers: one reading "There's NO Excuse - For Domestic Violence" and another for "Watch The Road - Operation Traffix". On the rear side panel is a black and white sticker that reads "EMERGENCY DIAL 9-1-1 Fire Police Medical." The front doors bear the seal of the city of Los Angeles, the department slogan "to protect and to serve" as well as the citywide five-digit "shop number" and city department name (POLICE). The last three numbers of the shop number (used to identify all vehicles operated by the city) are reprinted on the
An official Los Angeles Police Department (LAPD) badge page used badge number "14188" as its example (later deleted). [SEP] Los Angeles Police Department resources // more traditional black-and-white paint schemes similar to their department patrol cars. The letters LAPD appear on the top side of the aircraft in blue, capital letters. Typical air units include 14 Eurocopter AS-350B2 AStars, 4 Bell 206B-IIIs and 1 Bell UH-1 (no longer in service, due to maintenance issues and replace by Bell 412 for homeland sercuity). The aircraft come with a wide variety of electronics and equipment that include a 30 million candlepower "Nightsun" spotlight, optical FLIR cameras and electronically stabilized binoculars, a LoJack signal receiver, police radios in addition to the built-in aviation radios. Two officers with at
An official Los Angeles Police Department (LAPD) badge page used badge number "14188" as its example (later deleted). [SEP] Adam-12 // numbers of the patrol car's full unit number. In the program, 1-Adam-12 typically operated in the Rampart Division, Division 2, not the Central Division, Division 1, meaning the unit's call sign should have technically been 2-Adam-12. There was never an actual patrol car with the call sign of 1-Adam-12. "Adam-12" was a realistic police drama which followed two officers of the Los Angeles Police Department: veteran Police Officer II (P-2) Pete Malloy, Badge 744 (Martin Milner), and his rookie partner, probationary Police Officer I (P-1) Jim Reed, Badge 2430 (Kent McCord). Each episode of the series was based on actual
An official Los Angeles Police Department (LAPD) badge page used badge number "14188" as its example (later deleted). [SEP] Adam-12 // the Rampart Division; the old building is being renovated to serve as headquarters for LAPD's Metro Division, an elite reserve unit that includes counterterrorism and SWAT platoons. The designation "1-Adam-12" is a combination of three elements. The first element indicates the unit's LAPD division. The second element indicates the type of unit. The third element identifies the patrol car's number. The one in 1-Adam-12 means the patrol car operates in Division 1 (Central Division). LAPD assigns two-person units the letter "A". In the LAPD phonetic alphabet, the letter "A" is spoken as "Adam". The third element is the last two
An official Los Angeles Police Department (LAPD) badge page used badge number "14188" as its example (later deleted). [SEP] Symbionese Liberation Army // house. That afternoon, more than 400 LAPD officers, under the command of Captain Mervin King, along with the FBI, Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department (LASD), California Highway Patrol (CHP), and Los Angeles Fire Department (LAFD) surrounded the neighborhood. The leader of a SWAT team used a bullhorn to announce, "Occupants of 1466 East 54th Street, this is the Los Angeles Police Department speaking. Come out with your hands up!" A young child walked out, along with an older man. The man stated that no one else was in the house, but the child intervened stating that several people were in
An official Los Angeles Police Department (LAPD) badge page used badge number "14188" as its example (later deleted). [SEP] APCO radiotelephony spelling alphabet // to [Division] One (LAPD Central Division) Two Man Patrol Car (Adam unit) in patrol car 12. The 12 refers to what is called "The Basic Car Plan". That is the patrol area within the Division (precinct). Specialized units use the last numbers as designating the officers. An example would be 6U2, Hollywood Division report writing unit is an example. The patrol car, in LAPD jargon, is called a Black and White owing to the colors. The number that is on the car is called the shop number and is only used for identifying the vehicle. In the 1970s American television
An official Los Angeles Police Department (LAPD) badge page used badge number "14188" as its example (later deleted). [SEP] LAPD Air Support Division // Eurocopter AS-350B2 AStars, 4 Airbus H125 (AS-350B3e), one Bell 412 and one Beechcraft King Air 200 twin-engined aircraft. The city of Los Angeles briefly flew a fleet of Bell 407s in the late 1990s as a replacement for the AS-350B1s. However, in 2000 the LAPD started replacing the 407s with more powerful AS-350B2s. Two of the 407s were sold to the General Services Department which uses the helicopters on flights for the Department of Water and Power. On November 30, 1964, Sergeant Norman D. Piepenbrink was killed in a helicopter accident. On August 30, 1966, Policemen Larry Amberg and Alex
Scientists grow viable vaginas from girls' own cells. [SEP] Vaginal transplantation // vagina to develop improperly, or sometimes not at all. Between 1 out of every 1,500 and 1 out of every 4,000 females are born with this condition. The four patients began treatment between May 2005 and August 2008. In each case, the medical research team began by taking a small sample of genital tissue from the teenager's vulva. The sample was used as a seed to grow additional tissue in the lab which was then placed in a vaginal shaped, biodegradable mold. Vaginal-lining cells were placed on the inside of the tube, while muscle cells were attached to the outside.
Scientists grow viable vaginas from girls' own cells. [SEP] Müllerian agenesis // after the mother developed pre-eclampsia. Promising research include the use of laboratory-grown structures, which are less subject to the complications of non-vaginal tissue, and may be grown using the person's own cells as a culture source. The recent development of engineered vaginas using the patient's own cells has resulted in fully functioning vaginas capable of menstruation and orgasm in a number of patients showing promise of fully correcting this condition in some of the sufferers. The prevalence remains sparsely investigated. To date, two population-based nationwide studies have been conducted both estimating a prevalence about 1 in 5,000 live female births.
Scientists grow viable vaginas from girls' own cells. [SEP] Vaginal transplantation // Five to six weeks later, the structure was implanted into the patients, where the tissue continued to grow and connected with the girls' circulatory and other bodily systems. After about eight years, all four patients reported normal function and pleasure levels during sexual intercourse according to the Female Sexual Function Index questionnaire, a validated self-report tool. No adverse results or complications were reported. In two of the four women, the vagina was attached to the uterus, making pregnancy possible. No pregnancies were reported, however, during the study period. Martin Birchall, who works on tissue engineering, but was not involved in
Scientists grow viable vaginas from girls' own cells. [SEP] Genital regeneration // that were excised for the sake of the experiment. Autologous cells were attached to a three-dimensional collagen matrix. Once formed, the structure was attached and tested for functionality. An Italian doctor named Dr. Cinzia Marchese has successfully reconstructed the inner mucosal lining of congenitally deformed vaginas by using an enzyme to break down the abnormal lining, then inserting stem cells to remodel the walls and restore normal functionality. There are currently no therapies available for men attempting to clinically regenerate structures of the human penis. Also, for women there are no therapies that use autologous cells to regenerate the clitoris,
Scientists grow viable vaginas from girls' own cells. [SEP] Lesbian utopia // with an available source of nutrients in which an embryo can develop into a fetus and gestate until childbirth. Scientists have created mouse pups from two female mice, including Kaguya. The trial was conducted by researchers from the Tokyo University of Agriculture, led by Dr. Tomohiro Kono. The research uncovered that by suppressing the activity of a certain hormone from the original mouse eggs, they could initiate growth of the eggs by using two sets of "female" DNA, by increasing the activity of another hormone contained within the egg. However, Dr. Komo has stated that the extremely low success rate
Scientists grow viable vaginas from girls' own cells. [SEP] Lesbian utopia // fertility treatments, stating, "This is a very complicated thing. So no, It is impossible to do this experiment in a human. And I don't want to do it". However, some researchers still believe the methods could have potential applications in stem cell research. Scientists have also found a way to fertilise human eggs using genetic material from any cell in the body. This could eventually allow two or more females to conceive and bring a baby to term without male assistance. There have been some public health concerns amongst a vocal minority about the viability of the techniques put forward
Scientists grow viable vaginas from girls' own cells. [SEP] Vaginal transplantation // after three years. In at least one case, a woman who received such a transplant was able to conceive and give birth. In 1981, a 12-year-old girl with vaginal aplasia received a vaginal wall implant from her mother. She became sexually active seven years later, without incident. At age 24, she conceived and carried a child to term. The child was born via cesarean section. In April 2014, a team of scientists led by Anthony Atala reported that they had successfully transplanted laboratory-grown vaginas into four female teenaged girls with a rare medical condition called Mayer-Rokitansky-Küster-Hauser syndrome that causes the
Scientists grow viable vaginas from girls' own cells. [SEP] Reproductive technology // i.e., cells from an adult woman to make female sperm. In the two decades that followed, the idea of female sperm became more of a reality. In 1997, scientists partially confirmed such techniques by creating chicken female sperm in a similar manner. They did so by injecting blood stem cells from an adult female chicken into a male chicken's testicles. In 2004, other Japanese scientists created two female offspring by combining the eggs of two adult mice. In 2008, research was done specifically for methods on creating human female sperm using artificial or natural Y chromosomes and testicular transplantation. A
Scientists grow viable vaginas from girls' own cells. [SEP] Evelyn Telfer // to maturity in the lab, to the point at which they can be fertilised. The research was the first successful attempt to grow fully mature human eggs, where previously it had only been achieved for mouse eggs. The technique has implications for fertility treatment, in particular in women undergoing in vitro fertilisation and women who had their ovaries removed before cancer treatment. Telfer was the project leader, and co-authored an article publishing the research in the medical journal Molecular Human Reproduction in March 2018. Evelyn Telfer Evelyn Telfer is a reproductive biologist and professor at the University of Edinburgh. She
Scientists grow viable vaginas from girls' own cells. [SEP] Vaginal transplantation // the study, said it "addressed some of the most important questions facing translation of tissue engineering technologies." Commentary published by the National Health Service (NHS) called the study "an important proof of concept" and said it showed that tissue engineering had "a great deal of potential." However, the NHS also cautioned that the sample size was very small and further research was necessary to determine the general viability of the technique. The laboratory-grown autologous transplant technique could also be used on women who want reconstructive surgery due to cancer or other disease once the technique is perfected. However, more studies
Newport developed marijuana cigarettes which will be available for purchase "next year. [SEP] Newport (cigarette) // which would be available for purchase in 2017. In November 2016, TMZWorldNews published an article reporting that the cigarette brand Newport planned to introduce marijuana cigarettes dubbed the ""Newport Nirvana"". However, Snopes reported that TMZWorldNews is a fake news site appropriating the name of popular gossip site TMZ. None included a disclaimer warning readers its content consisted entirely of falsehoods. Newport cigarettes come in several varieties: Full Flavor, Medium, and Lights. In the United States, in June 2010, "Medium" and "Lights" were re-branded into "Blue" and "Gold" respectively. On the box, the words "Menthol Box" for shorts and "Menthol Box
Newport developed marijuana cigarettes which will be available for purchase "next year. [SEP] Newport (cigarette) // the logo from Newport. In 2006, Lorillard and Nike sued graphic designer Ari Saal Forman after he released his Ari Menthol 10s shoes, which combined the design of the Nike Air Force 1 with Newport's spinnaker and colors. According to Forman, the shoes were "dedicated to the two brands who have taken the most and given the least." As a result of the lawsuit, Forman is not legally allowed to own a pair of Menthol 10s. In December 2016, it was reported that R.J. Reynolds would start selling Marijuana cigarettes called ""Newport Nirvana"". However, Newport did not develop Marijuana cigarettes
Newport developed marijuana cigarettes which will be available for purchase "next year. [SEP] Newport (cigarette) // Newport (cigarette) Newport is an American brand of menthol cigarettes, currently owned and manufactured by the R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company. The brand was originally named for the seaport of Newport, Rhode Island. It is the best-selling brand of menthols in the United States. Newport was originally launched in 1957 by the Lorillard Tobacco Company. The cigarette originated within Ireland and was introduced to the culture mostly for the male drinkers of the time. The spinnaker present on all packs since the late 1950s is meant to capitalize on the association with sailing. Newport Cigarettes are traditionally shipped via barge
Newport developed marijuana cigarettes which will be available for purchase "next year. [SEP] Newport (cigarette) // Full Flavor and Lights were sold in United States during the mid- to late 1990s, possibly as late as 2002; however, they were discontinued until November 2010 in which they re-released them in order to keep up with the non-menthol cigarette smokers in America. The packs are identical in design to standard menthol Newports except the turquoise-colored area is red on the Full Flavors and mustard-yellow on the Lights. Newport Slim 120s (introduced 1998), Newport "Stripes" and Newport "M-Blend" were other varieties that have also been discontinued. In some Latin American markets, such as tourist areas of the Dominican Republic,
Newport developed marijuana cigarettes which will be available for purchase "next year. [SEP] Newport (cigarette) // pleasure aspect of these campaigns weighs an important part of youth targeting, portraying Newports as fun and enjoyable and, subconsciously, sexy and sexual. Newport is mainly sold in the United States, but also was or still is sold in Antigua British Virgin Islands, Luxembourg, Finland and Singapore. A lawsuit against the Lorillard Tobacco Company alleged that in the late 1960s, company vans were used to make regular trips to housing projects where free Newport cigarettes were given to children. Evidence showed that the deceased plaintiff died of lung cancer, but that she started smoking at age nine after receiving free
Newport developed marijuana cigarettes which will be available for purchase "next year. [SEP] Newport (cigarette) // British American Tobacco has released some limited edition varieties and outer packagings including: In July 2017, R.J. Reynolds announced they would introduce new flavors called Newport Platinum. It woul be released in two variants: Newport Platinum (King Size and 100s) and Newport Platinum Blue (also King Size and 100s). Newport (cigarette) Newport is an American brand of menthol cigarettes, currently owned and manufactured by the R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company. The brand was originally named for the seaport of Newport, Rhode Island. It is the best-selling brand of menthols in the United States. Newport was originally launched in 1957 by
Newport developed marijuana cigarettes which will be available for purchase "next year. [SEP] Newport (cigarette) // 100s" for 100s were replaced simply with "Cigarettes." Each variety is sold in 85mm soft packs (king size), 80mm hard packs (box), and 100mm soft and hard packs. They are available in standard packs of 20 cigarettes, as well as the more unusual 25s, containing 25 cigarettes. Prior to the signing of the Tobacco Master Settlement Agreement in the late 1990s, they were sold in packs of ten as well. Due to the FDA Tobacco Regulations, the terms "Full Flavor," "Medium," "Light," "Mild" and "Ultra Light" have been discontinued. New names for Newport Cigarettes are as follows: Non-menthol Newports in
Newport developed marijuana cigarettes which will be available for purchase "next year. [SEP] Newport (cigarette) // lounges for $1 per pack. Reynolds had set aside $50 million for such initiatives in 2016. A study from the Stanford University School of Medicine had discovered that menthol cigarette manufacturers created very direct marketing campaigns designed to attract young black smokers. Far from being a catchall effort, Reuters says these campaigns were concerted attacks on African-American teens: ""A recent analysis of the data found school neighborhoods were increasingly likely to have lower prices and more advertising for Newport cigarettes as the proportion of African-American students rose. The same was true of neighborhoods with higher proportions of children aged 10
Newport developed marijuana cigarettes which will be available for purchase "next year. [SEP] Newport (cigarette) // Public Health report indicated that Newports alongside unfiltered Camel cigarettes contained the highest levels of nicotine in cigarettes on the market. In the following six years, Lorillard Tobacco increased the amount of nicotine in Newports by 10%. On July 15, 2014 Reynolds American offered to buy the Lorillard tobacco company for $27.4 billion. As a result of the completion of this merger on June 12, 2015, the Newport brand is now property of R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company. Newports comprise about 35 percent of menthol cigarette sales in the U.S. It is the most popular mentholated cigarette brand sold in the
Newport developed marijuana cigarettes which will be available for purchase "next year. [SEP] Newport (cigarette) // that Newport was the brand of choice for nearly 60% of black smokers. In September of 2016, it was reported that R.J. Reynolds was specifically targeting black teenagers and young adults to sell Newport cigarettes. Reynolds American Inc., the parent firm that owns Newport, was pushing the brand on people in their 20s — with pop-ups at music festivals like Las Vegas' Electric Daisy Carnival, a notorious destination for teen-partiers, which was recently pressured to raise its age requirements. Dubbed ""Newport Pleasure Lounges"", the air-conditioned party trucks were replete with games like digital darts. Newports could be purchased in these
Mammograms Save Lives for Women in Their 40s, Study Says [SEP] Mammography // reduction in mortality from all types of cancer from screening mammography. The Canadian Task Force found that for women ages 50 to 69, screening 720 women once every 2 to 3 years for 11 years would prevent 1 death from breast cancer. For women ages 40 to 49, 2,100 women would need to be screened at the same frequency and period to prevent a single death from breast cancer. Women whose breast cancer was detected by screening mammography before the appearance of a lump or other symptoms commonly assume that the mammogram "saved their lives". In practice, the vast majority
Mammograms Save Lives for Women in Their 40s, Study Says [SEP] Mammography // was associated with a 8%-33% decrease in breast cancer mortality in different age groups, but that this decrease was not statistically significant at the age groups of 39-49 and 70-74. The same review found that mammography significantly decreased the risk of advanced cancer among women aged 50 and older by 38%, but among those aged 39 to 49 the risk reduction was a non significant 2%. The goal of any screening procedure is to examine a large population of patients and find the small number most likely to have a serious condition. These patients are then referred for further, usually
Mammograms Save Lives for Women in Their 40s, Study Says [SEP] Breast cancer screening // value of routine mammography in women at low or average risk is controversial. With unnecessary treatment of ten women for every one woman whose life was prolonged, the authors concluded that routine mammography may do more harm than good. If 1,000 women in their 50s are screened every year for ten years, the following outcomes are considered typical in the developed world: The outcomes are worse for women in their 20s, 30s, and 40s, as they are far less likely to have a life-threatening breast cancer, and more likely to have dense breasts that make interpreting the mammogram more difficult.
Mammograms Save Lives for Women in Their 40s, Study Says [SEP] Breast cancer screening // Screening targeted towards women with above-average risk produces more benefit than screening of women at average or low risk for breast cancer. A 2013 Cochrane review estimated that mammography in women between 50 and 75 years old results in a relative decreased risk of death from breast cancer of 15% and an absolute risk reduction of 0.05%. However, when the analysis included only the least biased trials, women who had regular screening mammograms were just as likely to die from all causes, and just as likely to die specifically from breast cancer, as women who did not. The size of
Mammograms Save Lives for Women in Their 40s, Study Says [SEP] Mammography // of Obstetricians and Gynecologists encourage annual mammograms beginning at age 40. The National Cancer Institute encourages mammograms one to two years for women ages 40 to 49. In contrast, the American College of Physicians, a large internal medicine group, has recently encouraged individualized screening plans as opposed to wholesale biannual screening of women aged 40 to 49. In 2009, the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force recommended that screening of women ages 40 to 49 be based on individual risk factors, and that screening should not be routine in this age group. Their report says that the benefits of screenings before
Mammograms Save Lives for Women in Their 40s, Study Says [SEP] Mammography // mammography as a screening tool for the detection of early breast cancer in otherwise healthy women without symptoms is controversial. Keen and Keen indicated that repeated mammography starting at age fifty saves about 1.8 lives over 15 years for every 1,000 women screened. This result has to be seen against the adverse effects of errors in diagnosis, over-treatment, and radiation exposure. The Cochrane analysis of screening indicates that it is "not clear whether screening does more good than harm". According to their analysis, 1 in 2,000 women will have her life prolonged by 10 years of screening, while 10 healthy
Mammograms Save Lives for Women in Their 40s, Study Says [SEP] Canadian National Breast Screening Study // scientific community. In February 2014, the BMJ published more results from the study after following up on the participants for twenty-five years, with the authors concluding that "annual mammography in women aged 40-59 does not reduce mortality from breast cancer beyond that of physical examination or usual care when adjuvant therapy for breast cancer is freely available." The study also reported substantial overdiagnosis among women who had been screened, which the authors stated accounted for about 22% of the cancers detected by screening. H. Gilbert Welch, of the Dartmouth Institute for Health Policy and Clinical Practice, has described the CNBSS
Mammograms Save Lives for Women in Their 40s, Study Says [SEP] Daniel Kopans // Gina Kolata which questioned the value of screening mammography for those in the 40-50 age group, Dr. Kopans was a leading figure during a prolonged battle, arguing in favor of the benefits of mammography. By 1997, the National Cancer Institute had reversed course and once again supported screening for women in their 40s. However, 2009 United States Preventive Services Task Force guidelines no longer recommend routine screening in women 40 to 49. Kopans is author of the textbook "Breast Imaging". He practices radiology at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston and is a professor at Harvard Medical School. Kopans attended Harvard
Mammograms Save Lives for Women in Their 40s, Study Says [SEP] United States Preventive Services Task Force // The Task Force made no recommendation about routine mammography to screen asymptomatic women aged 40 to 49 years for breast cancer. Patients in this age group should be educated about the risks and benefits of screening, and the decision whether to screen or not should be based on the individual situation and preferences. The old advice was based on "weak" evidence for this age group. The new advice is based on improved scientific evidence about the benefits and harms associated with mammography and is consistent with recommendations by the World Health Organization and other major medical bodies. Their recommendation against
Mammograms Save Lives for Women in Their 40s, Study Says [SEP] Breast cancer screening // Among women in their 60s, who have a somewhat higher rate of breast cancer, the proportion of positive outcomes to harms are better: Mammography is not generally considered as an effective screening technique for women at average or low risk of developing cancer who are less than 50 years old. For normal-risk women 40 to 49 years of age, the risks of mammography outweigh the benefits, and the US Preventive Services Task Force says that the evidence in favor of routine screening of women under the age of 50 is "weak". Part of the difficulty in interpreting mammograms in younger
Covfefe" means something, anything. [SEP] Communications Over Various Feeds Electronically for Engagement Act // title is a backronym of "covfefe", a misspelled word in a May 31, 2017 tweet sent by Trump, reading "Despite the constant negative press "covfefe"". This incomplete tweet was liked and retweeted hundreds of thousands of times, making it one of the most popular tweets of 2017, as people speculated on its meaning. By 5:48 AM ET, the tweet was deleted, and at 6:09 AM ET, Trump's account tweeted, "Who can figure out the true meaning of 'covfefe' ??? Enjoy!" During the May 31 White House press briefing, Hunter Walker of Yahoo! News asked White House press secretary Sean Spicer
Covfefe" means something, anything. [SEP] Thing (assembly) // in the evolution of the Latin "causa" ("judicial lawsuit") to modern French "chose", Spanish/Italian/Catalan "cosa", and Portuguese "coisa" (all meaning "object" or "thing"). A word with similar meaning, the cognate to English "sake" (purpose), "sak" in Norwegian and Swedish, "sag" in Danish, "zaak" in Dutch, and "Sache" in German, still retains the meaning "affair, matter" alongside "thing, object". In English the term is attested from 685 to 686 CE in the older meaning "assembly"; later it referred to a being, entity or matter (sometime before 899), and then also an act, deed, or event (from about 1000). The early sense
Covfefe" means something, anything. [SEP] Yanny or Laurel // Teigen. Laurel Halo and Yanni, whose names are similar to those given in the auditory illusion, also responded. In a video released by the White House, various members of the Trump administration reacted to the meme, and President Donald Trump said, "I hear covfefe", as a reference to his "covfefe" tweet the previous year. In "The Guardian", the clip was compared to the 2015 gold/blue dress controversy. Several days after the clip became viral, the team at Vocabulary.com added a separate entry for the word "Yanny", which contained an audio clip identical to "Laurel". Its definition is about the Internet
Covfefe" means something, anything. [SEP] Communications Over Various Feeds Electronically for Engagement Act // such a challenge would be successful. Communications Over Various Feeds Electronically for Engagement Act The Communications Over Various Feeds Electronically for Engagement Act (COVFEFE Act) is a bill introduced into the United States House of Representatives in 2017, during the 115th United States Congress. The bill would amend the Presidential Records Act to preserve Twitter posts and other social media interactions of the president of the United States, and to require the National Archives to store such items. U.S. Representative Mike Quigley, Democrat of Illinois, introduced the legislation in the wake of Donald Trump's routine use of Twitter, stating "In
Covfefe" means something, anything. [SEP] Afife // at the end of the 9th century), or if it received this name from its founder or principal resident. It is possible that Afife arises from the Arab word ""Afif"", which is an adjective designating that someone is "virtuous"; much later, the name appeared in 1108, suggesting the existence of a "Villa Afif", that obtained the name from its master. Along the centuries, the toponemy appeared variously as Fifi, Affifi, Afifi and Afife. Popular interpretations suggest that the place-name is Roman, from ""Aff-hifas"", indicating ""sopa de cabelos"" ("hair soup"). These definitions come from a period when Roman legions invaded the
Covfefe" means something, anything. [SEP] GAFIA // GAFIA GAFIA (along with derived forms such as gafiate and gafiation) is a term used in science fiction fandom. It began as an acronym for "Getting Away From It All", and initially referred to escaping from the mundane world via fanac. However, its meaning was soon reversed, and thereafter it referred to getting "away" from fandom and fannish doings. When fans say they're gafiating, it means they intend to put some distance between themselves and fandom. This can be either a temporary or a long-term separation. The 1959 Fancyclopedia says: A closely related term is "Fafia" or "Fafiation", from the
Covfefe" means something, anything. [SEP] Communications Over Various Feeds Electronically for Engagement Act // Communications Over Various Feeds Electronically for Engagement Act The Communications Over Various Feeds Electronically for Engagement Act (COVFEFE Act) is a bill introduced into the United States House of Representatives in 2017, during the 115th United States Congress. The bill would amend the Presidential Records Act to preserve Twitter posts and other social media interactions of the president of the United States, and to require the National Archives to store such items. U.S. Representative Mike Quigley, Democrat of Illinois, introduced the legislation in the wake of Donald Trump's routine use of Twitter, stating "In order to maintain public trust in
Covfefe" means something, anything. [SEP] Something (concept) // is concerned. Often pronounced in a way that indicates evading specifics, "anything" provides full freedom about the something that is supposedly covered by the word. "Anything goes" indicates maximization of freedom, just like "Do as you please" means there are no restrictions other than the restrictions put in place by oneself. One can make the statement that "anything" is a specific word where "everything" can be seen as a general word. Still, both meanings may readily be understood by everyone, while their definitions will equally contain some aspects of murkiness as to what is included and what is not. First
Covfefe" means something, anything. [SEP] Laws of Form // else "but" this." In "LoF", a Cross denotes the drawing of a "distinction", and can be thought of as signifying the following, all at once: All three ways imply an action on the part of the cognitive entity (e.g., person) making the distinction. As "LoF" puts it: "The first command: can well be expressed in such ways as: Or: The counterpoint to the Marked state is the Unmarked state, which is simply nothing, the void, or the un-expressable infinite represented by a blank space. It is simply the absence of a Cross. No distinction has been made and nothing has
Covfefe" means something, anything. [SEP] Word stem // in the third person singular). However, the equivalent Spanish verb stem "corr-" never appears as such because it is cited with the infinitive inflection ("correr") and always appears in actual speech as a non-finite (infinitive or participle) or conjugated form. Such morphemes that cannot occur on their own in this way are usually referred to as "bound morphemes". In computational linguistics, the term "stem: is used for the part of the word that never changes, even morphologically, when inflected, and a lemma is the base form of the word. For example, given the word "produced", its lemma (linguistics) is "produce",
Health care systems to get $5.5M to prepare for emergencies. [SEP] Public Readiness and Emergency Preparedness Act // purview of the secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS). PREPA provides $3.8 billion for pandemic influenza preparedness to protect public health in the case of a pandemic disease outbreak. Vaccine manufacturers lobbied for the legislation, which would effectively preempt state vaccine safety laws in the case of an emergency declaration by HHS, by making clear they would not produce new vaccines unless the legislation was enacted. Legislative leaders Senator Bill Frist and Congressman Dennis Hastert were among the backers of PREPA legislation, which was tacked onto the end of a defense-spending bill (HR 2863). Of the $3.8 billion earmarked
Health care systems to get $5.5M to prepare for emergencies. [SEP] Trauma Systems and Regionalization of Emergency Care Reauthorization Act // the appropriation of $24 million a year for each of fiscal years 2015 through 2019. The Congressional Budget Office (CBO) estimates that implementing the bill would cost $101 million over the 2015-2019 period, assuming appropriation of the authorized amounts. Pay-as-you-go procedures do not apply to this legislation because it would not affect direct spending or revenues. The bill contains no intergovernmental or private-sector mandates as defined in the Unfunded Mandates Reform Act. The Trauma Systems and Regionalization of Emergency Care Reauthorization Act was introduced into the United States House of Representatives on February 25, 2014 by Rep. Michael C. Burgess
Health care systems to get $5.5M to prepare for emergencies. [SEP] Cerner // and patient care. In 2016, the Nanaimo BC hospital ER began using the system. Physicians and nurses have called it a "huge failure" with it increasing some types of errors and slowing down the emergency department. The system cost CAN$ 230 million dollars. In 2002, the installation of a computerized health system by Cerner in the UPMC Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh made it harder for the doctors and nurses to do their jobs in emergency situations and resulted in a "disaster", according to Phillip Longman, a senior fellow at the New America Foundation. Longman wrote, "According to a study conducted
Health care systems to get $5.5M to prepare for emergencies. [SEP] Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness Reauthorization Act of 2013 // health system to address public health and medical emergencies. Based on information provided by the HHS and the VA, the CBO estimates that implementing the act would cost about $11 billion over the 2014-2018 period, assuming the appropriation of the authorized amounts. The Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2012, included funding totaling about $2 billion in fiscal year 2012 for activities similar to those that would be authorized by H.R. 307. The CBO assumes that amounts appropriated through the Continuing Appropriations Resolution, 2013, for those activities are similar to 2012 levels. H.R. 307 also changes the terms for Project Bioshield contracts, which
Health care systems to get $5.5M to prepare for emergencies. [SEP] Public Readiness and Emergency Preparedness Act // for pandemic preparedness, $350 million is slated for improvement of state and local preparedness. HHS will use most of the balance on "core preparedness activities," such as developing vaccines and stockpiling antiviral drugs. Under PREPA, an HHS emergency declaration will trigger establishment of a fund for "timely, uniform, and adequate compensation" program for vaccine injuries, but no funding provisions for such purposes were included in its language. PREPA was designed specifically to encourage rapid production of vaccines to protect American citizens in case of a potential public health threat. However, the primary effects of the legislation hinge on liability protections
Health care systems to get $5.5M to prepare for emergencies. [SEP] Homeland Security Grant Program // program made $34.9 million available for the integration of emergency management, health, and medical systems into an organized response to mass casualty incidents such as nuclear, biological or chemical terrorist incidents. Successful MMRS grantees will be provided with the necessary resources to reduce the potential costs of a mass casualty incident during the initial stages of an incident by having proper coordinated response systems, such as equipment and supplies procurement, emergency triage and pre-hospital treatment/emergency medical services, hospital evacuation, patient tracking, etc. already in place. Aside from the typical local, regional and state emergency response agencies, the MMRS also includes
Health care systems to get $5.5M to prepare for emergencies. [SEP] Homeland Security Grant Program // facets of response such as disaster medical assistance teams and disaster mortuary operational response teams that may be federalized in disaster situations. The program created 124 local MMRS jurisdictions, in which the $39.36 million budget is distributed evenly. The 124 jurisdictions are encouraged to collaborate closely with local, regional, and State health and medical partners, such as Medical Reserve Corps Units, Citizen Corps Councils, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Assistant Secretary for Preparedness and Response, the Center for Disease Control's Cities Readiness Initiative, and Strategic National Stockpile programs. In 2011, the Citizen Corps made $9.98 million in
Health care systems to get $5.5M to prepare for emergencies. [SEP] Health care reforms proposed during the Obama administration // Medicine reported in September 2012 that approximately $750B per year in U.S. health care costs are avoidable or wasted. This included: unnecessary services ($210 billion annually); inefficient delivery of care ($130 billion); excess administrative costs ($190 billion); inflated prices ($105 billion); prevention failures ($55 billion), and fraud ($75 billion). During a June 2009 speech, President Barack Obama outlined his strategy for reform. He mentioned electronic record-keeping, preventing expensive conditions, reducing obesity, refocusing doctor incentives from quantity of care to quality, bundling payments for treatment of conditions rather than specific services, better identifying and communicating the most cost-effective treatments, and reducing
Health care systems to get $5.5M to prepare for emergencies. [SEP] Prior authorization // spent 5.6 hours. A study in the Journal of the American Board of Family Medicine found that the annual cost per physician to conduct prior authorizations was between $2,161 and $3,430. The cost to health plans has been reported at between $10 and $25 per request. It is estimated that current prior authorization practices cost the US healthcare system between $23 and $31 billion annually. There have been a number of legislative and technological developments which attempt to make the prior authorization process more efficient. In 2011, the American Medical Association made recommendations that a uniform prior authorization form should
Health care systems to get $5.5M to prepare for emergencies. [SEP] Shona Holmes health care incident // for Prosperity Foundation, an American conservative political advocacy group. The ad featuring Holmes was broadcast at a cost of $1.8 million in eight US states. "We went 100 per cent into socialized medicine and we lost all our options," Holmes said recently of the Canadian system. After being told she would have to wait six months for treatment in Canada, she mortgaged her home to pay $100,000 for treatment at the Mayo Clinic. She is quoted as saying the Canadian health care system failed her. In an ad broadcast on American television she said, "If I'd relied on my government,
Cristina Higgins authored a personal account about the spread of COVID-19 in Italy. [SEP] Maria Cristina Giongo // of the jubilee year of mercy. Maria Cristina Giongo Maria Cristina Giongo (born Milan, 5 May 1951), is an Italian journalist and author. She lives in Eindhoven, the Netherlands, where she works as a correspondent for Italian magazines. From 1976 until 1981 she presented a thousand broadcasts of a daily live-program for consumers, partly dedicated to interviews with well-known persons in politics, public health service, daily topics, fashion and beauty. She won a television prize for this program ('premio onda tivu'), in the category Actuality and talkshow. In 1997 she made a documentary about the use of drugs in the
Cristina Higgins authored a personal account about the spread of COVID-19 in Italy. [SEP] Maria Cristina Giongo // Maria Cristina Giongo Maria Cristina Giongo (born Milan, 5 May 1951), is an Italian journalist and author. She lives in Eindhoven, the Netherlands, where she works as a correspondent for Italian magazines. From 1976 until 1981 she presented a thousand broadcasts of a daily live-program for consumers, partly dedicated to interviews with well-known persons in politics, public health service, daily topics, fashion and beauty. She won a television prize for this program ('premio onda tivu'), in the category Actuality and talkshow. In 1997 she made a documentary about the use of drugs in the Netherlands with a team of the
Cristina Higgins authored a personal account about the spread of COVID-19 in Italy. [SEP] Cristina Acidini // culture. Acidini was one of the experts who attributed the to Michelangelo. After the work was purchased by Italy, she was sued for negligence in 2012 but was later found not liable. Cristina Acidini Cristina Acidini (born 15 May 1951) is an Italian writer and art historian. Her name also appears as Cristina Acidini Luchinat. She was born in Florence. She received a BA from the University of Florence in 1977. In 1991, she was visiting professor at State University of New York at Plattsburgh. In 1997, she received an Eisenhower Fellowship and visited more than 70 museums in the
Cristina Higgins authored a personal account about the spread of COVID-19 in Italy. [SEP] Franca Sozzani // she worked with the AIDS organisation Convivo and from March 2013 she was the president of the European Institute of Oncology Foundation. Sozzani had one son, Francesco Carrozzini (born 1982), a photographer and director. Her sister, Carla Sozzani, is the owner of 10 Corso Como, a Milan photography gallery and store. Sozzani's niece, Sara Maino, is an editor at "Italian Vogue". Franca Sozzani Franca Sozzani (; 20 January 1950 – 22 December 2016) was an Italian journalist and the editor-in-chief of "Vogue Italia" from 1988 until her death in 2016. Sozzani was born and grew up in Mantua, Lombardy, northern
Cristina Higgins authored a personal account about the spread of COVID-19 in Italy. [SEP] Isabella Santacroce // Isabella Santacroce Isabella Santacroce (born April 30, 1970 in Riccione) is an Italian novelist. Isabella Santacroce was born and lives in Riccione. Her literary startup began in the 1990s with her debut novel "Fluo", the first book of the trilogy "Trilogia dello spavento" (trilogy of the frightened) (the other two are "Destroy" and "Luminal"). "Destroy" in particular is of interest in Italy, described by Alessandro Baricco as a ""book to read, if Enrico Brizzi is talented, there is double talent in the book"". Santacroce was grouped together with the "Giovani Cannibali", (young Cannibals) a literary movement developed at the end
Cristina Higgins authored a personal account about the spread of COVID-19 in Italy. [SEP] Emma Baeri // of manifestos from the women's political movement in Italy. From this experience was born the book "Riguardarsi: Manifesti del Movimento Politico delle Donne in Italia". Baeri's publications include: In 2012, in a limited, not-for-sale edition, she published "Isola mobile: nipoti, gatti, scritti," a "bookish object," as the author calls it, that gathers scattered texts published and unpublished, fragments of memoir, poetic words, and photographs illustrating her three great passions: collages, patchworks, and cats. In 2013 she published "Dividua", whose back cover reads: Baeri is married and has two daughters, Maria Carla and Paola; three grandchildren, Gabriele, Lorenzo, and Anna; and
Cristina Higgins authored a personal account about the spread of COVID-19 in Italy. [SEP] Girlfriend in a Coma (film) // a widely followed tweet and then an interview with The Guardian, Bill Emmott accused the Italian government of censorship. Stefano Corradino, director of the website "Articolo21" (a reference to the Italian Constitution article on freedom of thought), launched a petition asking Giovanna Melandri to reconsider her decision. More than 30,000 people signed the petition. But the MAXXI decision was not reversed and the film’s premiere in Italy instead took place at the Teatro Eliseo in Rome on 13 February 2013, hosted at short notice by L’Espresso magazine. The documentary has now become the centre of a social media campaign, connecting
Cristina Higgins authored a personal account about the spread of COVID-19 in Italy. [SEP] Christine Maggiore // was harmless, Maggiore had not taken medication to reduce the risk of transmission of HIV to her daughter during pregnancy, and she did not have Eliza Jane tested for HIV during her daughter's lifetime. Maggiore herself died on December 27, 2008 after suffering from AIDS-related conditions. Born in Chicago, Illinois, Maggiore grew up in Southern California. After graduating with honors from Reseda High School, she worked in advertising and marketing in Los Angeles, California until 1984. She traveled through Europe and North Africa in 1984 before settling in Florence, Italy, where she lived from 1985 to 1987. In the late
Cristina Higgins authored a personal account about the spread of COVID-19 in Italy. [SEP] Cristina Trivulzio Belgiojoso // where she published an account of the republic and its fall in the French magazine "Le National" in 1850. She bought land in the remote Ciaq-Maq-Oglou area and then traveled to Syria, Lebanon and Palestine. Cristina published accounts of her experiences in the orient and found the condition of women there particularly disturbing. She published "Of Women's Condition and of their Future" (1866) in which she argues that deprived of education, women come to accept the oppressive conditions in which they find themselves. She lived in exile in Turkey for eight years before returning to Italy in 1856 and working
Cristina Higgins authored a personal account about the spread of COVID-19 in Italy. [SEP] Annalisa Piras // Lyon, France. Piras was the London Correspondent for "L'Espresso" from 1997 to 2011 and for La7 TV for six years. From 2006 to 2007 Annalisa was the first Italian president of the London Foreign Press Association. In 2008, Piras' BBC Radio 4 documentary "The Italian Patient" was shortlisted as the FPA Best Story of the Year by a UK-based foreign correspondent. Her TV documentary on the Hutton Enquiry, written and directed for La7 TV, was shortlisted for the same award in 2003. In 2011 and 2012 Piras produced, co-wrote and directed the first independent feature documentary on Italy seen from
Facebook post Says series of 11 photos are “from the 1918 flu pandemic.” [SEP] Spanish flu // November 1917 was identified a year later by Chinese health officials as identical to the "Spanish" flu. A report published in 2016 in the Journal of the Chinese Medical Association found no evidence that the 1918 virus was imported to Europe via Chinese and Southeast Asian soldiers and workers. It found evidence that the virus had been circulating in the European armies for months and possibly years before the 1918 pandemic. When an infected person sneezes or coughs, more than half a million virus particles can be spread to those close by. The close quarters and massive troop movements of
Facebook post Says series of 11 photos are “from the 1918 flu pandemic.” [SEP] Influenza pandemic // pandemics each came in three or four waves of increasing lethality. But within a wave, mortality was greater at the beginning of the wave. Mortality varies widely in a pandemic. In the 1918 pandemic: The 1918 flu pandemic, commonly referred to as the Spanish flu, was a category 5 influenza pandemic caused by an unusually severe and deadly Influenza A virus strain of subtype H1N1. The Spanish flu pandemic lasted from 1918 to 1920. Older estimates say it killed 40–50 million people while current estimates say 50 million to 100 million people worldwide were killed. This pandemic has been described
Facebook post Says series of 11 photos are “from the 1918 flu pandemic.” [SEP] Aftermath of World War I // and the Royal London Hospital, identified a major troop staging and hospital camp in Étaples, France as almost certainly being the center of the 1918 flu pandemic. A significant precursor virus was harbored in birds, and mutated to pigs that were kept near the front. The exact number of deaths is unknown but about 50 million people are estimated to have died from the influenza outbreak worldwide. In 2005, a study found that, "The 1918 virus strain developed in birds and was similar to the 'bird flu' that in the 21st century spurred fears of another worldwide pandemic, yet proved
Facebook post Says series of 11 photos are “from the 1918 flu pandemic.” [SEP] Spanish flu // Spanish flu The 1918 influenza pandemic (January 1918 – December 1920; colloquially known as Spanish flu) was an unusually deadly influenza pandemic, the first of the two pandemics involving H1N1 influenza virus. It infected 500 million people around the world, including people on remote Pacific islands and in the Arctic, and resulted in the deaths of 50 to 100 million (three to five percent of the world's population), making it one of the deadliest natural disasters in human history. Infectious disease already limited life expectancy in the early 20th century. But in the first year of the pandemic, life expectancy
Facebook post Says series of 11 photos are “from the 1918 flu pandemic.” [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic // the North American swine flu strains circulating since 1998, when a new strain was first identified on a factory farm in North Carolina, and which was the first-ever reported triple-hybrid flu virus. The 1918 flu epidemic began with a wave of mild cases in the spring, followed by more deadly waves in the autumn, eventually killing hundreds of thousands in the United States and 50–100 million worldwide. The great majority of deaths in the 1918 flu pandemic were the result of secondary bacterial pneumonia. The influenza virus damaged the lining of the bronchial tubes and lungs of victims, allowing common
Facebook post Says series of 11 photos are “from the 1918 flu pandemic.” [SEP] Spanish flu research // Oxford of St Bartholomew's Hospital and the Royal London Hospital, suggested that a principal British troop staging camp in Étaples, France was at the center of the 1918 flu pandemic or at least a significant precursor virus to it. There had been a mysterious respiratory infection at the military base during the winter of 1915-16. In February 1997, Johan Hultin recovered samples of the 1918 influenza from the frozen corpse of a Native Alaskan woman buried for nearly eight decades in permafrost near Brevig Mission, Alaska. He brought the samples to a team led by Jeffery Taubenberger of the US
Facebook post Says series of 11 photos are “from the 1918 flu pandemic.” [SEP] Influenza pandemic // Controversy arose in October 2005, after the H1N1 genome was published in the journal, "Science". Many fear that this information could be used for bioterrorism. "When he compared the 1918 virus with today's human flu viruses, Dr. Taubenberger noticed that it had alterations in just 25 to 30 of the virus's 4,400 amino acids. Those few changes turned a bird virus into a killer that could spread from person to person." In mid-April 2009, an H1N1 variant appeared in Mexico, with its center in Mexico City. By 26 April the variant had spread widely; with cases reported in Canada, the
Facebook post Says series of 11 photos are “from the 1918 flu pandemic.” [SEP] Influenza // exposed. The most famous and lethal outbreak was the 1918 flu pandemic (Spanish flu pandemic) (type A influenza, H1N1 subtype), which lasted from 1918 to 1919. It is not known exactly how many it killed, but estimates range from 50 to 100 million people. This pandemic has been described as "the greatest medical holocaust in history" and may have killed as many people as the Black Death. This huge death toll was caused by an extremely high infection rate of up to 50% and the extreme severity of the symptoms, suspected to be caused by cytokine storms. Symptoms in 1918
Facebook post Says series of 11 photos are “from the 1918 flu pandemic.” [SEP] Spanish flu // in the United States. Spanish flu The 1918 influenza pandemic (January 1918 – December 1920; colloquially known as Spanish flu) was an unusually deadly influenza pandemic, the first of the two pandemics involving H1N1 influenza virus. It infected 500 million people around the world, including people on remote Pacific islands and in the Arctic, and resulted in the deaths of 50 to 100 million (three to five percent of the world's population), making it one of the deadliest natural disasters in human history. Infectious disease already limited life expectancy in the early 20th century. But in the first year of
Facebook post Says series of 11 photos are “from the 1918 flu pandemic.” [SEP] Spanish flu // flu epidemics; those most at risk were the sick and elderly, while younger, healthier people recovered easily. But by August, when the second wave began in France, Sierra Leone, and the United States, the virus had mutated to a much deadlier form. As the PBS "American Experience": Influenza 1918 episode says, October 1918 was the deadliest month of the whole pandemic. This increased severity has been attributed to the circumstances of the First World War. In civilian life, natural selection favors a mild strain. Those who get very ill stay home, and those mildly ill continue with their lives, preferentially
Proposal for Lyme prevention included in appropriations deal. [SEP] Terry Gipson // provided the opportunity for the 13 surrounding municipalities to apply for state and federal funding for waterfront revitalization, storm water treatment, and wastewater management, among other projects. Gipson’s office organized a strategic campaign to make the State Senate understand the urgency of helping victims with Lyme disease. During his term, the state began the process of providing funding for research and passing laws to help the victims of Lyme and other tick-borne diseases. Gipson supported a $9 million increase to the Environmental Protection Fund and a $90 million investment in New York State Parks funding in the 2014-15 state budget.
Proposal for Lyme prevention included in appropriations deal. [SEP] Charlie Baker // health insurance coverage for long-term Lyme disease treatment was overridden by the state legislature. Later in the same month, Baker signed into law a bill mandating insurance coverage of treatment for HIV-associated lipodystrophy caused by older HIV medications. In December 2016, due to Baker's midyear budget cuts, Baystate Health lost $1 million in funding. In January 2017, in his state budget proposal for fiscal year 2018, Baker proposed a $2,000-per-employee assessment on businesses that do not offer health insurance to counter spending growth in MassHealth, which received opposition from the state business community and support from health care unions. In
Proposal for Lyme prevention included in appropriations deal. [SEP] Zika Authorization Plan Act of 2016 // Congress called the Zika Response and Preparedness Appropriations Act of 2016. This bill would have amended the Public Health Service Act to reauthorize grants for state mosquito control programs through FY2020. The bill would authorize $200 million per year for each fiscal year 2016 through 2020 for grants for state mosquito programs. Specifically, the bill amended Subsection (f) of section 317S of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 247b–21(f)) as follows: "(f) Authorization Of Appropriations.—To carry out this section, there is authorized to be appropriated $200,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2016 through 2020". The bill was introduced in
Proposal for Lyme prevention included in appropriations deal. [SEP] Zika Authorization Plan Act of 2016 // be curbed utilizing every tool at our disposal in a coordinated international response," Clawson said. "The Zika virus is sneaking up on us and we're not paying enough attention. If we deal with it prior to an outbreak we will be much better off." At the end of 2016, the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) awarded $184 million in funding to states, territories, local jurisdictions and universities to protect people from the spread of the Zika virus. The awards were given as a part of $350 million in funding provided to the CDC under legislation passed by
Proposal for Lyme prevention included in appropriations deal. [SEP] Infectious Diseases Society of America // Collaborations are formed between the regulatory bodies and pharmaceutical industry with funding and added incentives. The IDSA's prognosis for sustainable R&D infrastructure for antibiotics development will depend upon clarification of FDA regulatory clinical trial guidance which would facilitate the speedy approval of new drugs, and the appropriate economic incentives for the pharmaceuticals companies to invest in this endeavor. The IDSA recommends against long-term antibiotic treatment for Lyme disease, arguing that it is ineffective and potentially harmful. The American Academy of Neurology and National Institutes of Health similarly recommend against such treatment. However, a minority view holds that chronic Lyme disease
Proposal for Lyme prevention included in appropriations deal. [SEP] Karen Ludwig // Lyme disease, and in May 2016, co-chaired a national roundtable on the disease. She led a series of roundtables across the country following the national one, and supported a pilot project in her riding for increased tick surveillance. Most recently, Ludwig was joined by representatives from New Brunswick's universities, research institutions, and medicals professions at the Huntsman Marine Science Centre in St. Andrews, New Brunswick to discuss research and awareness on Lyme. On May 30, 2018, MP Ludwig called on the House of Commons Standing Committee on Health to review the spraying the controversial herbicide, glyphosate. Her request came in
Proposal for Lyme prevention included in appropriations deal. [SEP] Lyme disease // effective in the prevention of tick bites. In Europe known reservoirs of "Borrelia burgdorferi" were 9 small mammals, 7 medium-sized mammals and 16 species of birds (including passerines, sea-birds and pheasants). These animals seem to transmit spirochetes to ticks and thus participate in the natural circulation of B. burgdorferi in Europe. The house mouse is also suspected as well as other species of small rodents, particularly in Eastern Europe and Russia. A recombinant vaccine against Lyme disease, based on the outer surface protein A (ospA) of "B. burgdorferi", was developed by SmithKline Beecham. In clinical trials involving more than 10,000
Proposal for Lyme prevention included in appropriations deal. [SEP] Political positions of Mitt Romney // seniors. The Romney campaign noted that the study did not specifically model any proposal from either campaign. In September 2012, a mailer from the Romney and Ryan campaign indicated they favored a law regarding "chronic Lyme disease", a controversial and unrecognized diagnosis, that will provide "physicians with protection from lawsuits to ensure they can treat the disease with the aggressive antibiotics that are required." Asked "How will you help with the housing and foreclosure problems in the U.S.?", Romney responded that it would be best not to try and stop the foreclosure process, to let it run its course and
Proposal for Lyme prevention included in appropriations deal. [SEP] Antimicrobial resistance // if preventive actions are not taken. In this day and age current antimicrobial resistance leads to longer hospital stays, higher medical costs, and increased mortality. For the fiscal year 2016 budget, President Obama suggested to nearly double the amount of federal funding to "combat and prevent" antibiotic resistance to more than $1.2 billion. Many international funding agencies like USAID, DFID, SIDA and Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation have pledged money for developing strategies to counter antimicrobial resistance. Since the mid-1980s pharmaceutical companies have invested in medications for cancer or chronic disease that have greater potential to make money and have
Proposal for Lyme prevention included in appropriations deal. [SEP] Lyme disease // withdrawal of LYMErix as an instance in which "unfounded public fears place pressures on vaccine developers that go beyond reasonable safety considerations." The original developer of the OspA vaccine at the Max Planck Institute told "Nature": "This just shows how irrational the world can be... There was no scientific justification for the first OspA vaccine LYMErix being pulled." Vaccines have been formulated and approved for prevention of Lyme disease in dogs. Currently, three Lyme disease vaccines are available. LymeVax, formulated by Fort Dodge Laboratories, contains intact dead spirochetes which expose the host to the organism. Galaxy Lyme, Intervet-Schering-Plough's vaccine, targets
New hearts forge new friendship for transplant recipients. [SEP] Mason Morgan // she needs a heart transplant, after being diagnosed with a serious heart condition five years prior. Mason urges Beth not to give up hope that she will get the transplant and they share "a heartfelt moment", which led a "New Idea" columnist to speculate that they could be more than just friends. Mason later asks Beth out on a date and she accepts. Of their romance, Pledger told Tamara Cullen of "TV Week", "Beth brings out the best in Mason. He's playful and has no inhibitions with her." When Mason finds Beth's bucket list, she tells him that she accepts
New hearts forge new friendship for transplant recipients. [SEP] The Heart (novel) // and recipients are matched to them. Almost immediately, Simon's liver is assigned to a six-year old girl in Strasbourg, his lungs to a seventeen-year old girl in Lyon, and his kidneys to a nine-year old boy in Rouen. His heart takes slightly longer to find a match, but soon one is found: Claire Méjan, a 51-year old woman suffering from myocarditis who, after three years of her condition gradually worsening, is in dire need of a heart transplant. That night, the heart transplantation is performed successfully by Dr. Emmanuel Harfang, the head cardiac surgeon at Pitié-Salpêtrière Hospital in Paris. Exactly
New hearts forge new friendship for transplant recipients. [SEP] Jack Copeland (surgeon) // option, which would have required two operations, was to offer a Left ventricular assist device (LVAD) as a bridge-to-transplantation. The procedure involved placing the new donor heart on the right side of Smith’s own heart and then surgically joining the left atria of both hearts to each other to allow oxygenated blood to flow direct from Smith’s heart to the donor heart. The new heart’s better functioning left ventricle then pumped blood into the aorta. The right heart continued to pump blood through the lungs. Copeland was one of the co-founders of the International Society of Heart and Lung Transplantation
New hearts forge new friendship for transplant recipients. [SEP] Organ transplantation // at Stanford Medical Center, a woman who was needing a heart-lung transplant had cystic fibrosis which had led to one lung expanding and the other shrinking thereby displacing her heart. The second patient who in turn received her heart was a woman with right ventricular dysplasia which had led to a dangerously abnormal rhythm. The dual operations actually required three surgical teams including one to remove the heart and lungs from a recently deceased initial donor. The two living recipients did well and in fact had an opportunity to meet six weeks after their simultaneous operations. Another example of this
New hearts forge new friendship for transplant recipients. [SEP] Hearts and Souls // successful. It starts ten days after the heart transplant with his anticipated hospital release. Simone's recovery is hampered by an internal chest infection, which leaves him weakened. The doctors attempt diagnosis of the infection and weakness, which appear to be minor, with tests. Tensions run high in the department from almost the beginning of the episode. Greg Medavoy (Gordon Clapp) has a scene where his verbal aggression with a citizen complainant provides a respite and represents the frustration and helplessness of Simone's friends and colleagues. James Martinez' (Nicholas Turturro) generally good manners are also tested. Sipowicz (Dennis Franz) displays deep
New hearts forge new friendship for transplant recipients. [SEP] Return to Me // car accident leaving the fundraiser, and her heart is transplanted to artist Grace Briggs (Minnie Driver), who has suffered from heart disease since the age of 14 and is near death. The surgery is successful; Grace is able to live a normal life for the first time and plans to make her first airplane trip to Italy to paint. Grace's best friend Megan Dayton (Bonnie Hunt), encourages her to start dating in spite of her self-consciousness about the long surgical scar on her chest. Grace writes a letter to the donors family after the surgery, thanking them for the heart
New hearts forge new friendship for transplant recipients. [SEP] Stuart W. Jamieson // John Wallwork and Norman Shumway. The recipient, a 45-year-old woman with Eisenmenger's syndrome, lived for 5 years. A series of combined heart-lung transplant procedures followed in which alternative blood vessels provided blood to the main airways, reducing bronchial restricted blood supply since the coronary blood vessels remained intact after the bronchial artery had been ligated. Use of cyclosporine reduced acute rejection. Simultaneous work in Toronto, under Joel D. Cooper and the Toronto transplant group also reported success with single-lung transplants and then with en bloc bilateral lung transplants. Over the next two decades, the state of lung transplantation grew and
New hearts forge new friendship for transplant recipients. [SEP] Organ transplantation // own children. Although the decision to accept the heart from his recently killed child was not an easy decision, the Szuber family agreed that giving Patti's heart to her father would have been something that she would have wanted. Access to organ transplantation is one reason for the growth of medical tourism. Living related donors donate to family members or friends in whom they have an emotional investment. The risk of surgery is offset by the psychological benefit of not losing someone related to them, or not seeing them suffer the ill effects of waiting on a list. A "paired-exchange"
New hearts forge new friendship for transplant recipients. [SEP] Sharon Ann Hunt // bridge-to-transplant, in 1984. The device used was the “Novacor” (left ventricular assist system), which used an electromechanically driven dual pusher-plate blood pump. Later, the Thoratec HeartMate XVE device became approved with the landmark REMATCH trial. Hunt was part of the team, led by Eric A. Rose, that published the REMATCH trial, "Randomized Evaluation of Mechanical Assistance for the Treatment of Congestive Heart Failure", which intended to assess the suitability of using a LVAD in the long-term in people with end-stage (severe) heart failure who were not suitable for heart transplantation. Just under 130 people with at least three months of
New hearts forge new friendship for transplant recipients. [SEP] Kidney transplantation // (spouses, friends). Now the elasticity of the donor relationship has been stretched to include acquaintances and even strangers ('altruistic donors'). In 2009, Minneapolis transplant recipient Chris Strouth received a kidney from a donor who connected with him on Twitter, which is believed to be the first such transplant arranged entirely through social networking. The acceptance of altruistic donors has enabled chains of transplants to form. Kidney chains are initiated when an altruistic donor donates a kidney to a patient who has a willing but incompatible donor. This incompatible donor then 'pays it forward' and passes on the generosity to another
Group pushes to end plastic foam use in schools. [SEP] Green Student Council // students knew that the plastic foam lunchboxes were not environmentally friendly. 95% of them were willing to give up using those lunchboxes. 57% of students stated that they could not finish all the food in the lunch boxes. On 6 Oct 2006, a group of students with the representatives of the Green Student Council demonstrated to the government. They demanded the setting up of rules and regulations about the lunch arrangement and lunchboxes. They hoped that the government would require schools to reduce the use of disposable dining utensils and lunch boxes. The organisation believed that these measures could help
Group pushes to end plastic foam use in schools. [SEP] Edward Suslovic // to ban the use of containers made from polystyrene foam and to identify ways to reduce the use of plastic bags. Suslovic has worked to advance public transportation in the Southern Maine region through his work as vice-president of the Board of Directors of the Greater Portland Transit District (Metro). Suslovic has worked to improve public transportation in Portland and has also advocated for continuing the funding of public transportation in nearby communities in order to support a regional economy. A board member of Maine Citizens Against Handgun Violence, Suslovic has advocated for local municipalities to have the flexibility to
Group pushes to end plastic foam use in schools. [SEP] Bahamas Plastic Movement // since approved plans to phase out plastic bags by 2020. Bahamas Plastic Movement The Bahamas Plastic Movement is a Nonprofit organization based out of the South Eleuthera, Bahamas that focuses on reducing plastic pollution. The organization was founded in 2014 by Kristal Ambrose. The organization specializes in using youth to end plastic pollution. In 2018 a youth delegation from the Bahamas Plastic Movement traveled to Nassau, Bahamas to meet with Romauld Ferreira, Minister of the Environment and Housing, to ban plastic bags in the Bahamas. The Bahamas Plastic Movement claimed that if plastic pollution on beaches increased that $8.5 million
Group pushes to end plastic foam use in schools. [SEP] Green Student Council // it on their webpage. The organisation also posted a statement to clarify the procedure of collecting the donation on their webpage. There was a criticism about intervening government policies by the Green Student Council on Apple Daily Editorial dated 23 June 2005. It was said in the article that the role Green Student Council played was to educate the public about environmental protection. After the organisation conducted a survey about primary school students' plastic foam lunchboxes usage (please kindly refer to 'Achievements' in this entry), the organisation found many schools using plastic foam lunchboxes and therefore demanded the government to
Group pushes to end plastic foam use in schools. [SEP] Maryland Public Interest Research Group // and organizing skills. Each semester, members propose and vote on the campaigns that the organization will pursue. In addition to the student chapter, MaryPIRG also has a full office in both Baltimore and Washington, D.C.. MaryPIRG's current environmental campaign "Save the Bay" focuses on a variety of issues. In 2016-2017, the group petitioned and lobbied members of the Maryland General Assembly in support of a state-wide ban on Hydraulic fracturing, commonly known as "fracking". During the 2017-2018 school year, the campaign focused on implementing a state-wide ban on expanded polystyrene foam food service products, known commonly as "Styrofoam". This ban
Group pushes to end plastic foam use in schools. [SEP] Maryland Public Interest Research Group // would include products such as polystyrene foam carry-out containers and carry-out cups which have many substitutes including traditional plastics, cardboard, and paper. The Democracy campaign focuses primarily on expanding voter access and diminishing the effect of special interest money in elections. The campaign has largely focused its efforts on passing state and local legislation that create Publicly funded elections programs. The campaign has also focused on Automatic Voter Registration and Election Day Registration. The Democracy campaign also works to register students to vote in their New Voters Project (NVP). The project entails setting up tables on the University of Maryland,
Group pushes to end plastic foam use in schools. [SEP] Rock and Wrap it Up // but not sold in their schools and share them with agencies in their community who fight poverty. The College Wrap Program also encourages the Give and Go Green Program. Students donate bedding, gently used clothing, small appliances, furniture and non-perishable food at the end of each school year to local agencies rather than disposing these assets into landfills. Rock and Wrap it Up Rock and Wrap it Up! is a non-profit organization that was formed by Syd Mandelbaum in 1994. The independent anti-poverty think tank is based in New York, but works with partners across the country to develop greening
Group pushes to end plastic foam use in schools. [SEP] Greenbank Middle School // help prevent global warming and decided that it will make a project selling reusable bags and giving profits to the Institute of Environmental Sciences at Carleton University for research and education into reducing greenhouse gas emissions. A big part of what makes this school notable across Ottawa is Kids Helping Kids, a 3 on 3 basketball fundraiser. The first program of its kind, it was established several years ago, fueling school spirit while allowing for thousands of dollars to be fundraised for schools support student- oriented programs in neighboring OCDSB "Beacon Schools". (That is to say some schools without enough
Group pushes to end plastic foam use in schools. [SEP] Polystyrene // have serious effects on the health of birds or marine animals that swallow significant quantities. Restricting the use of foamed polystyrene takeout food packaging is a priority of many solid waste environmental organisations. Efforts have been made to find alternatives to polystyrene, especially foam in restaurant settings. The original impetus was to eliminate chlorofluorocarbons (CFC), which was a former component of foam. In 1987, Berkeley, California, banned CFC food containers. The following year, Suffolk County, New York, became the first U.S. jurisdiction to ban polystyrene in general. However, legal challenges by the Society of the Plastics Industry kept the ban
Group pushes to end plastic foam use in schools. [SEP] United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development // Day Global School Contest in which 7th graders at the International School of Ulaanbaatar (ISU) in Mongolia were declared the Global Winners for their awareness campaign on the environmental impact of plastic shopping bags, including research on plastic bag manufacturing processes, development of videos documenting plastic bag waste, and a school presentation at which reusable cloth shopping bags were sold to approximately 50 percent of the community. Sarasota, Fla.'s Brookside Middle School won in the World Environment Day contest's North American sub-category for its mangrove propagule growth project while International School of Brussels in Belgium won the European sub-category, for
Ted Cruz Says both Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton say Planned Parenthood is "terrific and that it should keep taxpayer funding. [SEP] Social policy of Donald Trump // for abortion-related procedures). In March 2016, Trump said that Planned Parenthood should not be funded "as long as you have the abortion going on," but acknowledged that "Planned Parenthood has done very good work for many, many -- for millions of women." Planned Parenthood said in a statement that "Trump presidency would be a disaster for women" and criticized Trump's claim that "he'd be great for women while in the same breath pledging to block them from accessing care at Planned Parenthood." In an interview later that month, Trump acknowledged that there must be "some form" of punishment for women
Ted Cruz Says both Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton say Planned Parenthood is "terrific and that it should keep taxpayer funding. [SEP] Political positions of Ted Cruz // funding to Planned Parenthood. In January 2016, Cruz announced his "Pro-Lifers for Cruz" coalition, chaired by Tony Perkins; co-chairs include Troy Newman, who has previously stated that the government has a responsibility to execute abortion doctors "in order to expunge bloodguilt ["sic"] from the land and people." Cruz favors the death penalty. In his 2012 Senate campaign, Cruz frequently mentioned his role as counsel for the State of Texas in "Medellín v. Texas", a 2008 case in which the U.S. Supreme Court found that Texas has the legal right to ignore an order from the International Court of Justice directing
Ted Cruz Says both Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton say Planned Parenthood is "terrific and that it should keep taxpayer funding. [SEP] Social policy of Donald Trump // from politics. I believe it is a personal decision that should be left to the women and their doctors." While campaigning for the presidency in 2016, Trump stated "I'm pro-life and I've been pro-life a long time" and acknowledged that he had "evolved" on the issue. CNN reported that Trump "dodged questions testing the specificity of those views." In August 2015, Trump said that he supported a government shutdown over federal funding for Planned Parenthood (which receives federal funding for the health services it provides to 2.7 million people annually, but is barred by federal law from using federal funds
Ted Cruz Says both Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton say Planned Parenthood is "terrific and that it should keep taxpayer funding. [SEP] Ted Cruz 2016 presidential campaign // who argued that in politics, "it's fairly unusual for your opponents who are running for the same position to be actually trying to help you". Cruz responded to Trump on January 12 with the assertion that he and Hillary Clinton knew each other well and that "it's interesting that Hillary Clinton's key supporters are doing everything they can to echo Donald's attacks on me." After Cruz and Trump had several exchanges in the Fox Business debate on January 14, Trump said after the debate that he believed "the bromance" between the pair had ended. On January 17, Trump acknowledged Cruz
Ted Cruz Says both Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton say Planned Parenthood is "terrific and that it should keep taxpayer funding. [SEP] 2016 Republican National Convention // said: "I had the text of what Ted Cruz was gonna say, and I thought it was funny," Gingrich said. "I mean, Ted gets up and he says, 'Look, vote your conscience for someone who will support the Constitution.' Well, in this particular election year, that by definition cannot be for Hillary Clinton." The following morning, Cruz attended a contentious meeting with delegates representing Texas that resulted in what CNN labeled "a remarkable 25-minute back-and-forth with his own constituents, defying appeals from his own Texas delegation to put the party above his inhibitions and back Trump." Cruz's speech sparked a
Ted Cruz Says both Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton say Planned Parenthood is "terrific and that it should keep taxpayer funding. [SEP] Carly Fiorina 2016 presidential campaign // funding for Planned Parenthood, the largest single provider of abortions in the United States, performing over 300,000 per year. The use of federal funds for abortions is mostly banned under current law. During the September 16, 2015, GOP presidential candidates' debate on "CNN", Fiorina criticized Planned Parenthood for their involvement in abortions. She referred to the secret recordings made by The Center for Medical Progress (CMP), and stated: According to "The Wall Street Journal", "there was never any video that depicted, as Ms. Fiorina stated, a live fetus on a table being prepared for organ harvesting." PolitiFact.com noted that the
Ted Cruz Says both Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton say Planned Parenthood is "terrific and that it should keep taxpayer funding. [SEP] First 100 days of Donald Trump's presidency // days as Congress tries to avoid a government shutdown. In Fiscal Year 2014, Planned Parenthood clinics received $20.5 million of the $252.6 million distributed under the Title X Family Planning grant program. The proposed American Health Care Act, announced by Congressional Republicans in March 2017, would have made Planned Parenthood "ineligible for Medicaid reimbursements or federal family planning grants". Within the first hours of Trump's presidency, he "suspended indefinitely" the reduced "Mortgage Insurance Premiums for loans with Closing/Disbursement date on or after January 27, 2017", known as the Federal Housing Administration's (FHA) Annual Mortgage Insurance Premium (MIP) Rates managed under
Ted Cruz Says both Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton say Planned Parenthood is "terrific and that it should keep taxpayer funding. [SEP] First 100 days of Donald Trump's presidency // its face" and violates "the separation of powers doctrine and deprives [the plaintiffs] of their Tenth and Fifth Amendment rights." Trump's appointment of a conservative justice, Neil Gorsuch, his reinstatement of the Mexico City Policy, and his signing H.J. Res. 43—HHS Title X Funding for Planned Parenthood Rule are in keeping with his pro-life policy. On January 23, Trump signed a Presidential Memorandum on the Mexico City Policy regarding federal funding to foreign NGOs. This is a key point in the abortion debate as foreign NGOs that receive US federal funding will no longer be able to offer, promote or
Ted Cruz Says both Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton say Planned Parenthood is "terrific and that it should keep taxpayer funding. [SEP] Kevin McCarthy (California politician) // and maternity coverage neutrally and provide both," believing that this law violates the Weldon Amendment and other federal laws. McCarthy received a 100% rating from the National Right to Life Committee, and a 0% rating from NARAL Pro-Choice America. McCarthy has voted to strip about $500 million in federal funding for Planned Parenthood. McCarthy was an early supporter of Trump in the 2016 Republican presidential primaries, saying that Trump's "intensity" could help the Republicans win House seats. After the 2018 mid-term elections, in which Democrats won a majority in the House, McCarthy said that Democrats should not investigate President Donald
Ted Cruz Says both Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton say Planned Parenthood is "terrific and that it should keep taxpayer funding. [SEP] Planned Parenthood 2015 undercover videos controversy // top doctor describing how she performs late-term abortions to sell body parts for profit", vowed to campaign to defund Planned Parenthood, and called for Hillary Clinton to return Planned Parenthood's donations to her campaign. Carly Fiorina said "This latest news is tragic and outrageous. This isn't about 'choice'. It's about profiting on the death of the unborn while telling women it's about empowerment". During the September 16, 2015, GOP presidential candidates' debate on "CNN", she harshly criticized Planned Parenthood and their involvement in fetal tissue donation, stating "I dare Hillary Clinton, Barack Obama to watch these tapes. Watch a fully
500,000 U.S. troops came home from Iraq and Afghanistan "with PTSD and traumatic brain injury. [SEP] Casualties of the Iraq War // Iraq War. The amputees represent 2.2% of the 22,700 U.S. troops wounded in action (5% for soldiers whose wounds prevented them returning to duty). By March 2009, the Pentagon estimated as many as 360,000 U.S. veterans of the Iraq and Afghanistan conflicts may have suffered traumatic brain injuries (TBI), including 45,000 to 90,000 veterans with persistent symptoms requiring specialized care. In February 2007, one expert from the VA estimated that the number of undiagnosed TBIs were higher than 7,500. According to "USA Today", by November 2007 there were more than an estimated 20,000 US troops who had signs of brain
500,000 U.S. troops came home from Iraq and Afghanistan "with PTSD and traumatic brain injury. [SEP] Casualties of the Iraq War // injuries without being classified as wounded during combat in Iraq and Afghanistan. A top U.S. Army psychiatrist, Colonel Charles Hoge, said in March 2008 that nearly 30% of troops on their third deployment suffered from serious mental-health problems, and that one year was not enough time between combat tours. A March 12, 2007, "Time" article reported on a study published in the "Archives of Internal Medicine". About one third of the 103,788 veterans returning from the Iraq and Afghanistan wars seen at U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs facilities between September 30, 2001, and September 30, 2005, were diagnosed with mental
500,000 U.S. troops came home from Iraq and Afghanistan "with PTSD and traumatic brain injury. [SEP] Casualties of the Iraq War // radioactive depleted uranium. A study of U.S. veterans published in July 2004 in "The New England Journal of Medicine" on posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and other mental disorders in Iraq and Afghanistan veterans found that 5 percent to 9.4 percent (depending on the strictness of the PTSD definition used) suffered from PTSD before deployment. After deployment, 6.2 percent to 19.9 percent suffered from PTSD. For the broad definition of PTSD that represents an increase of 10.5 percent (19.9 percent – 9.4 percent = 10.5 percent). That is 10,500 additional cases of PTSD for every 100,000 U.S. troops after they have
500,000 U.S. troops came home from Iraq and Afghanistan "with PTSD and traumatic brain injury. [SEP] Casualties of the Iraq War // 2008: Data contained in the Army's fifth Mental Health Advisory Team report indicate that, according to an anonymous survey of U.S. troops taken last fall, about 12% of combat troops in Iraq and 17% of those in Afghanistan are taking prescription antidepressants or sleeping pills to help them cope. ... About a third of soldiers in Afghanistan and Iraq say they can't see a mental-health professional when they need to. When the number of troops in Iraq surged by 30,000 last year, the number of Army mental-health workers remained the same – about 200 – making counseling and care even
500,000 U.S. troops came home from Iraq and Afghanistan "with PTSD and traumatic brain injury. [SEP] Posttraumatic stress disorder // have been estimated at up to 20% for veterans returning from Iraq and Afghanistan. As of 2013 13% of veterans returning from Iraq were unemployed. The September 11 attacks took the lives of nearly 3,000 people, leaving 6,000 injured. First responders (police and firefighters), emergency medical services, sanitation workers, and volunteers were all involved in the recovery efforts. The prevalence of probable PTSD in these highly exposed populations was estimated across multiple studies utilizing in-person, telephone, and online interviews and questionnaires. Overall prevalence of PTSD was highest immediately following the attacks and decreased over time. However, disparities were found among
500,000 U.S. troops came home from Iraq and Afghanistan "with PTSD and traumatic brain injury. [SEP] Coming Home campaign // the support of the UK Prime Minister David Cameron, Defence Secretary Liam Fox, former head of the British Army General the Lord Dannatt and the founder of Help for Heroes charity, Bryn Parry. Since the beginning of the war in Afghanistan in 2001, 249 Servicemen have been very seriously injured and 260 seriously injured or wounded. There are a total of 168 amputees from Afghanistan – 14 are triple amputees, 66 double and the remainder have lost a single limb. The Chief Executive of Coming Home and Haig Housing Trust is former Brigadier James Richardson. Coming Home campaign Coming Home
500,000 U.S. troops came home from Iraq and Afghanistan "with PTSD and traumatic brain injury. [SEP] War on Terror // Affairs puts the total number of casualties of the War on Terror in Iraq, Afghanistan and Pakistan between 480,000 and 507,000. Some estimates for regional conflicts include the following: Total American casualties from the War on Terror The United States Department of Veterans Affairs has diagnosed more than 200,000 American veterans with PTSD since 2001. On December 7, 2015, the Washington Post reported that since 2001, in five theaters of the war (Afghanistan, Iraq, Yemen, Syria and Somalia) that the total number of terrorists killed ranges from 65,800 to 88,600, with the Obama administration being responsible for between 30,000 and
500,000 U.S. troops came home from Iraq and Afghanistan "with PTSD and traumatic brain injury. [SEP] Where Soldiers Come From // for roadside bombs in order to keep roads safe for other troops. By the time their deployment ends, they are no longer the carefree group of friends they were before enlisting; repeated bombs blasts around their convoys have led to TBI symptoms, and they have become increasingly disillusioned about their mission. Coming home is no relief as they are now confronted with the silent war wounds of PTSD and TBI. The soldiers struggle with reintegration with society and some miss the simplicity in life they had while in Afghanistan. The latter half of the documentary focuses on their struggles on
500,000 U.S. troops came home from Iraq and Afghanistan "with PTSD and traumatic brain injury. [SEP] Chronic traumatic encephalopathy // and its long-term effects. Nearly 20% of the more than 2.5 million U.S. Service Members (SMs) deployed since 2003 to Operation Enduring Freedom (OEF) and Operation Iraqi Freedom (OIF) have sustained at least one traumatic brain injury (TBI), predominantly mild TBI (mTBI), and almost 8% of all OEF/OIF Veterans demonstrate persistent post-TBI symptoms more than six months post-injury. Unlike those head injuries incurred in most sporting events, recent military head injuries are most often the result of blast wave exposure. After a competitive application process, a consortium led by Virginia Commonwealth University was awarded funding.<ref name="http://www.spectrum.vcu.edu"></ref><ref name="http://www.grpva.com"></ref><ref name="http://www.army-technology.com"></ref><ref name="http://www.army.mil"></ref><ref name="http://www.whitehouse.gov"></ref><ref
500,000 U.S. troops came home from Iraq and Afghanistan "with PTSD and traumatic brain injury. [SEP] Bob Woodruff // estimated that more than 320,000 have probably sustained traumatic brain injuries and more than 300,000 have probable psychological wounds. The Bob Woodruff Foundation (BWF) is a nonprofit dedicated to ensuring that post-9/11 injured service members, veterans, and their families thrive long after they return home. In 2014, Woodruff was awarded the third highest honor within the Department of the Army Civilian Awards, the Outstanding Civilian Service Award, for substantial contributions to the U.S. Army community through his work with the Woodruff Foundation. In February 2007, Bob and Lee Woodruff published an account of their lives after Bob's injury, "In an
Planned Parenthood: States should oppose Trump ‘gag rule’. [SEP] Social policy of Donald Trump // He said that if "Roe v. Wade" were overturned, the issue would be returned to the states, and that if some states outlawed abortion, a woman would "have to go to another state" to obtain an abortion. In January 24, days after being sworn in, Trump issued an executive order reinstating the Mexico City policy (also called the "global gag rule"). Under the policy, international non-governmental organizations that "offer or promote abortions as part of their family planning services" are barred from receiving funds from the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID). On March 27, Trump revoked the 2014 Fair
Planned Parenthood: States should oppose Trump ‘gag rule’. [SEP] Reproductive rights in Latin America // in Latin America. When U.S. President Donald Trump reinstated the Global Gag Rule on January 23, 2017, he prohibited all U.S. federal money from funding international organizations such as NGOs that "perform or actively promote abortion as a method of family planning". Due to the fact that abortion regulations are already extremely strict in Latin America, this legislation disproportionately affects Latin American organizations that try to provide abortion services to women either legally, or illegally. In 2012 a report presented to the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights (IACHR) found that access to information remains a significant roadblock to sexual and
Planned Parenthood: States should oppose Trump ‘gag rule’. [SEP] Planned Parenthood // Obama administration issued a rule effective in January 2017 banning U.S. states from withholding federal family-planning funds from health clinics that give abortions, including Planned Parenthood affiliates; this rule mandates that local and state governments give federal funds for services related to sexually transmitted infections, pregnancy care, fertility, contraception, and breast and cervical cancer screening to qualified health providers whether or not they give abortions. However, this rule was blocked by a federal judge the day before it would have taken effect. In 2017, it was overturned by new legislation. The proposed American Health Care Act (), announced by Congressional
Planned Parenthood: States should oppose Trump ‘gag rule’. [SEP] Gag rule // John C. Calhoun of South Carolina attempted to introduce a gag rule. The Senate rejected this proposal, but agreed on a method which, while technically not violating the right to petition, would achieve the same effect. If an anti-slavery petition was presented, the Senate would vote not on whether to accept the petition but on whether to consider the question of receiving the petition. Related to abortion rights, the so-called Mexico City policy, which prohibits U.S. funding for organizations that provide abortions, referrals to abortion providers, and in some cases any family planning (birth control) information, is sometimes referred to
Planned Parenthood: States should oppose Trump ‘gag rule’. [SEP] Mexico City policy // plan for the upcoming G8 summit which did not include financial support for abortion or contraception, drawing comparisons to the Mexico City policy. An episode of the television series "Boston Legal", "Squid Pro Quo", which originally aired on May 9, 2006, featured a case involving USAID's withdrawal of funding to an overseas non-profit organization. An episode of the American television series "The West Wing", entitled "Privateers", featured a "gag rule" amendment of a law for overseas aid. Mexico City policy The Mexico City policy, sometimes referred to by critics as the global gag rule, is a United States government policy
Planned Parenthood: States should oppose Trump ‘gag rule’. [SEP] Mexico City policy // Mexico City policy The Mexico City policy, sometimes referred to by critics as the global gag rule, is a United States government policy that blocks U.S. federal funding for non-governmental organizations that provide abortion counselling or referrals, advocate to decriminalize abortion or expand abortion services. The Mexico City Policy is a U.S. government policy that – when in effect – has required foreign non-governmental organizations (NGOs) to certify that they will not "perform or actively promote abortion as a method of family planning" with non-U.S. funds as a condition for receiving U.S. global family planning assistance and, as of January
Planned Parenthood: States should oppose Trump ‘gag rule’. [SEP] First 100 days of Donald Trump's presidency // its face" and violates "the separation of powers doctrine and deprives [the plaintiffs] of their Tenth and Fifth Amendment rights." Trump's appointment of a conservative justice, Neil Gorsuch, his reinstatement of the Mexico City Policy, and his signing H.J. Res. 43—HHS Title X Funding for Planned Parenthood Rule are in keeping with his pro-life policy. On January 23, Trump signed a Presidential Memorandum on the Mexico City Policy regarding federal funding to foreign NGOs. This is a key point in the abortion debate as foreign NGOs that receive US federal funding will no longer be able to offer, promote or
Planned Parenthood: States should oppose Trump ‘gag rule’. [SEP] Abortion debate // as does the right to life; thus, abortion is considered immoral. The Church of England also considers abortion to be morally wrong, though their position admits abortion when "the continuance of a pregnancy threatens the life of the mother". The Mexico City policy—also known as the "global gag rule"—required any non-governmental organization receiving U.S. government funding to refrain from performing or promoting abortion services in other countries. This had a significant effect on the health policies of many nations across the globe. The Mexico City policy was instituted under President Reagan, suspended under President Clinton, reinstated by President George W.
Planned Parenthood: States should oppose Trump ‘gag rule’. [SEP] Helms Amendment // performed in unsafe ways by people without proper qualifications and in places that are not fit to medical standards. The Global gag rule, also known as the "Mexico City policy", is in accordance with the Helms Amendment of 1973. The order bans foreign aid from the United States to be directed to any non-governmental organizations (NGOs) that provide any services relating to abortions. In 1984 the Global Gag Order was first placed by former President Reagan and remained active through former President Bush. In 1993 when former President Clinton took office the order was rescinded until 2001. Former President George
Planned Parenthood: States should oppose Trump ‘gag rule’. [SEP] Planned Parenthood // medical records in an investigation of possible child abuse. In 2005, Planned Parenthood Minnesota, North Dakota, and South Dakota was fined for violating a Minnesota state parental consent law. In 2012, a Texas state court judge, Gary Harger, denied Planned Parenthood request for a temporary restraining order against the State of Texas, concluding that the State may exclude otherwise qualified doctors and clinics from receiving state funding if the doctors or clinics advocate for abortion rights. In the 1920s, various theories of eugenics were popular among intellectuals in the U.S. In her campaign to promote birth control, Sanger teamed with
Virginia has “lagged behind other states when it comes to (covid-19) testing.” [SEP] Race to the Top // round of the competition. Virginia finished 31st out of 41 states in the first round, but McDonnell said that Virginia would not continue for the second round, believing the competition required the use of common education performance standards instead of Virginia's current standards. The use of common performance standards is required. Although McDonnell supported the Race to the Top program during his campaign for governor, he claimed on his June 1 appearance on MSNBC that the Race to the Top rules precluded participating states from adopting more rigorous standards in addition to whatever multi-state standards they join. However, in some
Virginia has “lagged behind other states when it comes to (covid-19) testing.” [SEP] Bob McDonnell // he withdrew Virginia from the second round of "Race to the Top". Virginia had finished 31st out of 41 states in the first round; McDonnell decided that Virginia should not file its application for the second round because he erroneously believed the competition required the use of multi-state education performance standards instead of Virginia's standards. However, the use of common performance standards were not required and counted for 40 points out of a possible 500 total points in evaluating state proposals. McDonnell later stated on MSNBC that the Race to the Top rules precluded participating states from adopting more rigorous
Virginia has “lagged behind other states when it comes to (covid-19) testing.” [SEP] Education in Virginia // tested in grades 3-8, and also at the end of some high school courses. Testing depends on the curriculum, and can occur at any grade level according to what the curriculum says. In 2001, there was parental resistance to the Standards of Learning, or SOLs, saying they were unrealistic goals. By 2004, students were required to take a series of 11 exams that were all based on the SOLs. By 2007, in order for a school to keep its accreditation, they must have a 70% pass rate of the SOLs among their students. They also argued that the tests did
Virginia has “lagged behind other states when it comes to (covid-19) testing.” [SEP] Education in Virginia // Education in Virginia Education in Virginia addresses the needs of students from pre-kindergarten through adult education. Virginia's educational system consistently ranks in the top ten states on the U.S. Department of Education's National Assessment of Educational Progress, with Virginia students outperforming the average in almost all subject areas and grade levels tested. The 2010 "Quality Counts" report ranked Virginia's K–12 education fourth best in the country. All school divisions must adhere to educational standards set forth by the Virginia Department of Education, which maintains an assessment and accreditation regime known as the Standards of Learning to ensure accountability. In 2008,
Virginia has “lagged behind other states when it comes to (covid-19) testing.” [SEP] Standards of Learning // for the demands of the 21st century. The SOL set the bar higher for test-oriented education and performance-driven results. In 1998, the first year of SOL testing, only 2 percent of the Virginia Commonwealth’s public schools met the standard for full accreditation. The percentage of schools meeting the state’s accreditation standards increased to 6.5 percent in 1999, 22 percent in 2000, 40 percent in 2001, 64 percent in 2002, 78 percent in 2003, and 84 percent in 2004. In October 2005, the state reported that 92 percent of the Commonwealth’s 1,834 schools received accreditation ratings for 2005–2006, with students meeting
Virginia has “lagged behind other states when it comes to (covid-19) testing.” [SEP] Education in Virginia // sports. Virginia's two land grant universities Virginia Tech and Virginia State University receive federal funding to perform agricultural research and to conduct cooperative extension services. Virginia opted to not participate in No Child Left Behind federal funding. Virginia filed an application for the first round of federal Race to the Top funding, but finished 31st out of 41 states in the first round, and did not receive funds. On May 26, 2010, Virginia Governor Bob McDonnell withdrew the state from the second round of Race to the Top funding. McDonnell did not believe that Virginia should apply for the second
Virginia has “lagged behind other states when it comes to (covid-19) testing.” [SEP] Education in Virginia // Present", which Masoff owns, announced that it will distribute sticker labels that can be used to cover the disputed paragraph. Virginia has a statewide system of support and accountability for its public schools. These standards hold the state accountable for rigorous academic standards, called the Standards of Learning (SOL). Success is measured through annual SOL testing and also through alternative testing. The standards test students in English, math, science, and social studies. Tests are conducted at the end of 3rd, 5th, 8th grade, and at the end of some high school courses in all subjects, but English and math are
Virginia has “lagged behind other states when it comes to (covid-19) testing.” [SEP] Virginia // of $717 million in 2015. Northern Virginia, once considered the state's dairy capital, now hosts software, communication technology, defense contracting companies, particularly in the Dulles Technology Corridor. The state has the highest average and peak Internet speeds in the United States, with the third-highest worldwide. Northern Virginia's data centers can carry up to 70% of the nation's internet traffic, and in 2015 the region was the largest and fastest growing data center market in the nation. In 2009, "Forbes" magazine named Virginia the best state in the nation for business for the fourth year in a row, while CNBC named
Virginia has “lagged behind other states when it comes to (covid-19) testing.” [SEP] Virginia // was one of five states to receive a perfect score in disaster preparedness according to a 2008 report by the Trust for America's Health, based on criteria such as detecting pathogens and distributing vaccines and medical supplies. Because of the 1932 Byrd Road Act, the state government controls most of Virginia's roads, instead of a local county authority as is usual in other states. , the Virginia Department of Transportation owns and operates of the total of roads in the state, making it the third largest state highway system in the United States. Although the Washington Metropolitan Area, which includes
Virginia has “lagged behind other states when it comes to (covid-19) testing.” [SEP] Standards of Learning // Public Schools in Virginia. The Virginia Department of Education has posted fact sheets detailing the timeline for changes, accreditation ratings, diploma requirements, and other documentation related to the SOL. Annual reports regarding the condition and needs of public education in the Commonwealth of Virginia are also located on the Virginia Government Website. A student must get a raw score of 400 or higher on their SOL(s) in order to pass the test. A student's advancement to the next grade is not contingent on passing any SOL tests. Passing with a raw score of 500 is considered advanced/proficient. A perfect score
Merck KGaA, Pfizer's immuno-drug shown to alleviate kidney cancer [SEP] Kidney cancer // as freezing the tumour or treating it with high temperatures may be used. However these are not yet used as standard treatments for kidney cancer. Other treatment options include biological therapies such as everolimus, torisel, nexavar, sutent, and axitinib, the use of immunotherapy including interferon and interleukin-2. Immunotherapy is successful in 10 to 15% of people. Sunitinib is the current standard of care in the adjuvant setting along with pazopanib; these treatments are often followed by everolimus, axitinib, and sorafenib. Immune checkpoint inhibitors are also in trials for kidney cancer, and some have gained approval for medical use. In the
Merck KGaA, Pfizer's immuno-drug shown to alleviate kidney cancer [SEP] Evofosfamide // obtain reimbursement. Each cancer indication has a number of established medical therapies with which evofosfamide will compete, for example: Threshold relies on third-party contract manufacturers for the manufacture of evofosfamide to meet its and Merck KGaA’s clinical supply needs. Any inability of the third-party contract manufacturers to produce adequate quantities could adversely affect the clinical development and commercialization of evofosfamide. Furthermore, Threshold has no long-term supply agreements with any of these contract manufacturers and additional agreements for more supplies of evofosfamide will be needed to complete the clinical development and/or commercialize it. In this regard, Merck KGaA has to enter
Merck KGaA, Pfizer's immuno-drug shown to alleviate kidney cancer [SEP] Axitinib // Axitinib Axitinib (AG013736; trade name Inlyta) is a small molecule tyrosine kinase inhibitor developed by Pfizer. It has been shown to significantly inhibit growth of breast cancer in animal (xenograft) models and has shown partial responses in clinical trials with renal cell carcinoma (RCC) and several other tumour types. It was approved for RCC by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration after showing a modest increase in progression-free survival, though there have been reports of fatal adverse effects. It has received approval for use as a treatment for renal cell carcinoma from US FDA (27 January 2012), EMA (13 September
Merck KGaA, Pfizer's immuno-drug shown to alleviate kidney cancer [SEP] Cancer vaccine // of a phase III clinical trial. The approval is for a subset of kidney cancer patients who are at intermediate risk for disease recurrence. It awaits approval in the US and EU. but will need a new trial for FDA approval. Interim results from a phase III trial of talimogene laherparepvec in melanoma showed a significant tumour response compared to administration of GM-CSF alone. Oncophage was approved in Russia in 2008 for kidney cancer. It is marketed by Antigenics Inc. Sipuleucel-T, Provenge, was approved by the FDA in April 2010 for metastatic hormone-refractory prostate cancer. It is marketed by Dendreon
Merck KGaA, Pfizer's immuno-drug shown to alleviate kidney cancer [SEP] Axitinib // 2012), UK MHRA (3 September 2012) and Australian TGA (26 July 2012) . A Phase II clinical trial showed good response in combination chemotherapy with gemcitabine for advanced pancreatic cancer. However, Pfizer reported on January 30, 2009 that Phase III clinical trials of the drug when used in combination with gemcitabine showed no evidence of improved survival rates over treatments using gemcitabine alone for advanced pancreatic cancer and halted the trial. In 2010, a Phase III trial for previously treated metastatic renal cell carcinoma (mRCC) showed significantly extended progression-free survival when compared to sorafenib. In December 2011, the Oncologic Drugs
Merck KGaA, Pfizer's immuno-drug shown to alleviate kidney cancer [SEP] Merck Group // chemicals to the electronics industry. In September 2014 Merck halted the clinical development of two drug candidates in development with Oxygen Biotherapeutics. One drug candidate suffered a lack of success in patient recruitment, with its MUC1 antigen-specific cancer immunotherapy drug, tecemotide (L-BLP25), missing its Phase I/II endpoint of increasing overall survival in patients with Stage III non-small cell lung cancer. Later in September it was announced that the company would acquire Sigma-Aldrich for $17 billion. After the acquisition was completed in 2015, Merck has around 50,000 employees. In November 2014, Merck and Pfizer agreed a deal for the latter to
Merck KGaA, Pfizer's immuno-drug shown to alleviate kidney cancer [SEP] Renal cell carcinoma // a method that activates the person's immune system and uses it to their own advantage. It was developed after observing that in some cases there was spontaneous regression. Immunotherapy capitalises on this phenomenon and aims to build up a person's immune response to cancer cells. Other targeted therapy medications inhibit growth factors that have been shown to promote the growth and spread of tumours. Most of these medications were approved within the past ten years. These treatments are: Activity has also been reported for ipilimumab but it is not an approved medication for renal cancer. More medications are expected to
Merck KGaA, Pfizer's immuno-drug shown to alleviate kidney cancer [SEP] Kalos Therapeutics // effects associated with chemotherapeutic or small molecule compounds. KT-220, the current lead drug candidate, demonstrates remarkably broad anti-cancer activity. KT-220 has inhibited the growth of pancreatic, lung, prostate, breast, ovarian, colon, and melanoma cells in culture and of pancreatic, breast, and lung cancer tumors in models of human cancer. George Colberg - Chairman & CEO James Merritt, M.D. - President and Chief Medical Officer Gregory F. Witchel, MBA - Executive Vice President Daniel Von Hoff, MD, FACP - Chairman, Scientific Advisory Board David L. Vesely, MD, PhD - Scientific Advisory Board Marc B. Garnick, MD - Scientific Advisory Board Patrice
Merck KGaA, Pfizer's immuno-drug shown to alleviate kidney cancer [SEP] Pfizer // was reported that Pfizer had reignited a $100 billion takeover bid for the UK-based AstraZeneca, sparking political controversy in the UK, as well as in the US. On May 19, 2014, a "final offer" of £55 a share was rejected by the AstraZeneca board, which said the bid was too low and imposed too many risks. If successful, the takeover—the biggest in British history—would have made Pfizer the world's largest drug company. Hopes for a renewed bid later in the year were dashed when Pfizer signed a major cancer drug deal with Merck KGaA, selling its sharing rights to develop
Merck KGaA, Pfizer's immuno-drug shown to alleviate kidney cancer [SEP] History of cancer chemotherapy // Despite showing promise in preclinical studies, the agent had little antitumour activity in early clinical trials, and dosing was limited by kidney toxicity: its lactone ring is unstable at neutral pH, so while in the acidic environment of the kidneys it becomes active, damaging the renal tubules. In 1996 a more stable analogue, irinotecan, won Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval for the treatment of colon cancer. Later, this agent would also be used to treat lung and ovarian cancers. Cisplatin, a platinum-based compound, was discovered by a Michigan State University researcher, Barnett Rosenberg, working under an NCI contract. This
Drugs may make stents deadly, study says [SEP] Coronary stent // high risk is to give up smoking, to exercise regularly, and take "drugs to get blood pressure under control, drive cholesterol levels down and prevent blood clotting". Some cardiologists believe that stents are overused; however, in certain patient groups, such as the elderly, GRACE and other studies have found evidence of under-use. One cardiologist was convicted of billing patients for performing medically unnecessary stenting. Guidelines recommend a stress test before implanting stents, but most patients do not receive a stress test. While revascularisation (by stenting or bypass surgery) is of clear benefit in reducing mortality and morbidity in patients with
Drugs may make stents deadly, study says [SEP] Drug-eluting stent // of thrombosis was shown after the first year, compared to bare-metal stents. Late stent thrombosis often causes myocardial infarction and sometimes death. In other analyses, the late thrombosis risk is offset by drug-eluting stents' markedly reduced risk of restenosis and its complications including myocardial infarction. A meta-analysis concluded the mortality risk associated with drug-eluting and bare-metal stents is similar. Drug-eluting stents generally consist of three parts - the stent platform, a polymer coating that binds the drug to the stent and releases drug (although stents have been tested that do without a coating), and the drug. The stent platform itself
Drugs may make stents deadly, study says [SEP] Drug-eluting stent // narrowings, having lower rates of major adverse cardiac events (usually defined as a composite clinical endpoint of death + myocardial infarction + repeat intervention because of restenosis). The first drug-eluting stents to be approved in Europe and the U.S. were coated with paclitaxel or an mTOR inhibitor, such as sirolimus. Clinical trials have shown the benefits of coronary stenting with bare-metal stents over other methods of angioplasty, including balloon angioplasty and atherectomy. Drug-eluting stents (DES) have also been extensively studied, and are generally superior to bare-metal stents with respect to occurrence of major adverse cardiac events (MACE, generally defined as
Drugs may make stents deadly, study says [SEP] Drug-eluting stent // York Times interviewed the study's main author, who said that more than half of patients with stable coronary artery disease were implanted with stents without even trying drug treatment and that he believed this happened because hospitals and doctors wanted to make more money. In 2013 the Times of India reported that DES were widely overused and that Indian distributors used profits from high markups on DES to bribe doctors to use them. In 2014 an investigation by the Maharashtra Food and Drug Administration found that high markups and bribery related to DES was still widespread. Drug-eluting stent A drug-eluting
Drugs may make stents deadly, study says [SEP] Drug-eluting stent // has markedly decreased since the days of balloon angioplasty, such that in some communities, coronary stenting is permitted in hospitals without on-site cardiac surgery facilities, though this remains highly controversial in the United States, not the least because of the rare but largely unpredictable risk of coronary artery perforation. Rarely, a type of allergic reaction to the drug may occur; episodes of fatality have been reported. Although drug-eluting stents continue to represent a major medical advance for angioplasty, evidence has always shown new clot thrombosis formation with stents to be a problem, thus clotting suppressant agents are routinely given during
Drugs may make stents deadly, study says [SEP] Drug-eluting stent // or both of these drugs after drug-eluting stenting markedly increases the risk of stent thrombosis and myocardial infarction. A recent histopathology study showed very late DES thrombosis is associated with histopathological signs of inflammation and intravascular ultrasound evidence of vessel remodeling. Compared with other causes of myocardial infarction, eosinophilic infiltrates are more common in thrombi harvested from very late DES thrombosis and correlate with the extent of stent malapposition. Whether drug-eluting stents are at higher risk than bare-metal stents for late thrombosis is intensely debated. In meta-analyses of the sirolimus- and paclitaxel-eluting stent trials, a small but statistically higher risk
Drugs may make stents deadly, study says [SEP] Drug-eluting stent // death, myocardial infarction, or the need for a repeat revascularization procedure). Stents are indicated to improve the diameter of the coronary artery lumen, when narrowing (generally because of atherosclerosis) causes ischemia (reduced oxygen delivery to the muscle supplied by that artery). Drug-eluting stents also have been shown to be superior to bare-metal stents in reducing short-term complications of stenting in saphenous vein grafts; however, use in these bypass grafts is an example of an "off-label" use of drug-eluting stents. That is, this application has not been sufficiently examined by the Food and Drug Administration for that agency to recommend the
Drugs may make stents deadly, study says [SEP] Drug-eluting stent // use. For "on-label" applications, the FDA "believes that coronary drug-eluting stents remain safe and effective when used for the FDA-approved indications. These devices have significantly reduced the need for a second surgery to treat restenosis for thousands of patients each year." Some concern has been expressed about overzealous use of stents in general. Two studies found about half of patients received stents for unapproved reasons, with worse outcomes for the patients in both studies. More recent data suggest off-label use of both bare-metal stents and drug-eluting stents have increased risks. However, drug-eluting stents seemed to have similar or improved rates
Drugs may make stents deadly, study says [SEP] Coronary stent // that narrow arteries." Further, “...researchers say, most heart attacks do not occur because an artery is narrowed by plaque. Instead, they say, heart attacks occur when an area of plaque bursts, a clot forms over the area and blood flow is abruptly blocked. In 75 to 80 percent of cases, the plaque that erupts was not obstructing an artery and would not be stented or bypassed. The dangerous plaque is soft and fragile, produces no symptoms and would not be seen as an obstruction to blood flow.” A more permanent and successful way to prevent heart attacks in patients at
Drugs may make stents deadly, study says [SEP] Drug-eluting stent // of a new endothelial layer over the new stent to inhibit clot formation. Endothelialization is a hallmark of vascular healing and is important for the prevention of thrombus formation. Lack of healing caused by antiproliferative drugs can make the stent an exposed surface on which a clot, sometimes life-threatening, can form. For drug-eluting stents (which, by design, delay formation of a new endothelium cover over the stent), the incidence of clot formation within the stent may persist for a longer period of time, perhaps as long as five years after treatment. Drug-eluting stents have been associated with delayed arterial healing
An inaudible sonic weapon adequately explains the range of symptoms experienced by diplomats suffering from “health attacks” in Cuba. [SEP] Embassy of the United States, Havana // device, and did not believe the Cuban government is responsible. Affected individuals described mild brain damage similar to a concussion and symptoms such as temporary or permanent hearing loss, memory loss, and nausea. Speculation has centered around a sonic or ultrasonic weapon, however the scientific consensus is that the use of a sonic weapon is implausible. Dr. Timothy Leighton has said ""If you’re talking about a ray-gun rifle knocking out someone with ultrasound they can’t hear at a hundred meters — that’s not going to happen"". The United States expelled two Cuban diplomats in response to the attacks; the Cuban
An inaudible sonic weapon adequately explains the range of symptoms experienced by diplomats suffering from “health attacks” in Cuba. [SEP] Embassy of the United States, Havana // the brains showed physical changes which doctors believe could not have been caused by sound. They are now avoiding the term "sonic" to describe the attacks and there is growing skepticism it was caused by a sonic device; rather, it's possible that the sound heard by victims was a by-product of the brain damage. James Lewis, a former State Department official and intelligence expert, stated: "We know with 100% certainly that the embassies are under surveillance, and the technology being used could just be crude and over-powered"; he noted that health problems at the US embassy in Moscow in the
An inaudible sonic weapon adequately explains the range of symptoms experienced by diplomats suffering from “health attacks” in Cuba. [SEP] Sonic weapon // North Dakota, among others. It has been reported that "sonic attacks" may have taken place in Cuba in 2016 and 2017, leading to health problems, including hearing loss, in US and Canadian government employees at the US and Canadian embassies in Havana. Some events as reported would seem to violate the laws of physics, and it has been suggested that they are in fact an example of mass psychogenic illness. Cuban investigators have reportedly dismissed claims that sonic weapons have been used against American diplomats, describing them as "science fiction". The US issued an alert to its employees in China
An inaudible sonic weapon adequately explains the range of symptoms experienced by diplomats suffering from “health attacks” in Cuba. [SEP] Havana syndrome // in the "Skeptical Inquirer" in which he concluded that "the key question is not whether or not a sonic attack took place, but why American officials would assume that an attack took place in the wake of overwhelming evidence to the contrary." Bartholomew also reported on this issue for "Skeptic Magazine" titled "The 'Sonic Attack' on U.S. Diplomats in Cuba: Why the State Department’s Claims Don’t Add Up", where he examined the claims from a scientific perspective and concluded that: On February 1, 2018, "Slate" reported in "Cuba’s Sonic Attacks Show Us Just How Susceptible Our Brains Are to Mass
An inaudible sonic weapon adequately explains the range of symptoms experienced by diplomats suffering from “health attacks” in Cuba. [SEP] Havana syndrome // The health problems typically had a sudden onset: the victim would suddenly begin hearing strange grating noises that they perceived as coming from a specific direction. Some of them experienced it as a pressure or a vibration; or as a sensation comparable to driving a car with the window partly rolled down. The duration of these attacks ranged from 20 seconds to 30 minutes, and always happened while the diplomats were either at home or in hotel rooms. Other people nearby, family members and guests in neighboring rooms, did not report hearing anything. The Associated Press has released what it
An inaudible sonic weapon adequately explains the range of symptoms experienced by diplomats suffering from “health attacks” in Cuba. [SEP] Havana syndrome // "The wife of a member of the embassy staff, it reported, had looked outside her home after hearing the disturbing sounds and seen a van speeding away". The March JAMA study's medical team said that some personnel still loudly heard noises despite covering their ears. Beatrice A. Golomb a professor of medicine who later published a paper on the attacks, said that symptoms could be that of radio-frequency sickness. Smith said that "microwaves were now considered a main suspect and that the team was increasingly sure the diplomats had suffered brain injury". According to the State Department, "the investigation had
An inaudible sonic weapon adequately explains the range of symptoms experienced by diplomats suffering from “health attacks” in Cuba. [SEP] Havana syndrome // individuals described symptoms such as hearing loss, memory loss, and nausea. Speculation centered around a sonic weapon, with some researchers pointing to infrasound as a possible cause. In August 2017, the United States expelled two Cuban diplomats in response to the illnesses. In September, the U.S. State Department stated that it was removing non-emergency staff from the U.S. embassy, and warned U.S. citizens not to travel to Cuba. In October 2017, U.S. President Trump said that "I do believe Cuba's responsible. I do believe that", going on to say "And it's a very unusual attack, as you know. But I
An inaudible sonic weapon adequately explains the range of symptoms experienced by diplomats suffering from “health attacks” in Cuba. [SEP] Sonic weapon // after it learned of a possible "sonic attack" on a US citizen working there. The employee complained of symptoms from late 2017 through April 2018 , then returned to the US and was examined by a doctor who said the person had suffered a mild traumatic brain injury (MTBI). The US diplomat likened it to the incident which they say happened in Cuba. In early June, 2018 several employees were evacuated from their work in the U.S. Consulate offices in China and sent back to Pennsylvania for testing and diagnosis after sharing similar concerns. Studies have found that exposure to
An inaudible sonic weapon adequately explains the range of symptoms experienced by diplomats suffering from “health attacks” in Cuba. [SEP] Havana syndrome // said was a recording of the sound some embassy workers heard while in Cuba; Cuban scientists have concluded that this sound was the stridulation of Jamaican field crickets, a loud species native to Cuba. Some U.S. embassy individuals have reportedly experienced lasting health effects, including one unidentified U.S. diplomat who is said to now need a hearing aid. The State Department declared that the health problems were either the result of an attack, or due to exposure to an as-yet-unknown device, and declared that they were not blaming the Cuban government, but would not say who was to blame. Affected
An inaudible sonic weapon adequately explains the range of symptoms experienced by diplomats suffering from “health attacks” in Cuba. [SEP] Havana syndrome // and mass psychogenic illness, Robert Bartholomew, believes the Cuban incidents are an example of mass hysteria. As reported in "Newsweek" on October 13, 2017, he said: In the December 26, 2017, "Skeptoid" podcast episode "Sonic Weapons in Cuba", science journalist Brian Dunning examined the evidence and determined that the incident had all the hallmarks of a psychogenic event. He concluded: On January 6, 2018, U.S. Senator Jeff Flake stated that the U.S. has no evidence that the illnesses experienced by U.S. diplomats were the result of attacks. On January 9, 2018, an anonymous senior United States Department of State official
We know that President Obama stole over $500 billion out of Medicare to switch it over to Obamacare. [SEP] Health care reforms proposed during the Obama administration // is undetected. According to CBS News, Medicare fraud accounts for an estimated $60 billion in Medicare payments each year, and "has become one of, if not the most profitable, crimes in America." Criminals set up phony companies, then invoice Medicare for fraudulent services provided to valid Medicare patients who never receive the services. These costs appear on the Medicare statements provided to Medicare card holders. The program pays out over $430 billion per year via over 1 billion claims, making enforcement challenging. Its enforcement budget is "extremely limited" according to one Medicare official. U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder said in
We know that President Obama stole over $500 billion out of Medicare to switch it over to Obamacare. [SEP] Health care reforms proposed during the Obama administration // an interview: "Clearly more auditing needs to be done and it needs to be done in real time." The Obama administration is providing Medicare with an additional $200 million to fight fraud as part of its stimulus package, and billions of dollars to computerize medical records and upgrade networks, which should assist Medicare in identifying fraudulent claims. During July 2010, President Obama signed into law the Improper Payments Elimination and Recovery Act of 2010, citing approximately $110 billion in unauthorized payments of all types, including Medicare and Medicaid. President Obama has directed his administration to reduce these payments by $50
We know that President Obama stole over $500 billion out of Medicare to switch it over to Obamacare. [SEP] Health care reforms proposed during the Obama administration // However, research also suggests that subsidies alone are unlikely to solve the uninsured problem in the U.S. The Government Accountability Office lists Medicare as a "high-risk" government program due to its vulnerability to improper payments. Estimates of Medicare fraud or "improper payments" vary. The Office of Management and Budget reported that $54 billion in "improper payments" were made to Medicare ($24B), Medicaid ($18B) and Medicaid Advantage ($12B) during FY2009. This was 9.4% of the $573 billion spent in these categories. GAO reported in 2000: "The Department of Health and Human Services’ Office of Inspector General has reported that $13.5 billion
We know that President Obama stole over $500 billion out of Medicare to switch it over to Obamacare. [SEP] Health care reforms proposed during the Obama administration // Medicine reported in September 2012 that approximately $750B per year in U.S. health care costs are avoidable or wasted. This included: unnecessary services ($210 billion annually); inefficient delivery of care ($130 billion); excess administrative costs ($190 billion); inflated prices ($105 billion); prevention failures ($55 billion), and fraud ($75 billion). During a June 2009 speech, President Barack Obama outlined his strategy for reform. He mentioned electronic record-keeping, preventing expensive conditions, reducing obesity, refocusing doctor incentives from quantity of care to quality, bundling payments for treatment of conditions rather than specific services, better identifying and communicating the most cost-effective treatments, and reducing
We know that President Obama stole over $500 billion out of Medicare to switch it over to Obamacare. [SEP] Health care reforms proposed during the Obama administration // all health care expenditures in the U.S. are fraudulent. In 2011, Medicare and Medicaid made $65 billion in improper payments (including both error and fraud). Government efforts to reduce fraud include $4.2 billion in fraudulent payments recovered by the Department of Justice and the FBI in 2012, longer jail sentences specified by the Affordable Care Act, and Senior Medicare Patrols—volunteers trained to identify and report fraud. The "International Federation of Health Plans" provides a comparative annual survey of costs for drugs, devices and medical services across countries. According to their 2013 report, the U.S. pays considerably more than other countries
We know that President Obama stole over $500 billion out of Medicare to switch it over to Obamacare. [SEP] 2010 Medicaid fraud // theft. A scandal surfaced involving a case to defraud the Medicaid and other healthcare programs such as Medicare. With an estimated amount to be stolen totalling $163 million of which $35 million was already acquired by the criminals, it involved more than 50 ethnic Armenians living in the United States who were arrested on October 13, 2010. The operation was run by more than 400 FBI agents. In addition to FBI, IRS and local enforcement agencies in California, Georgia, New Mexico, New York and Ohio were involved in the probe. The Justice Department has already indicted 73 individuals in New
We know that President Obama stole over $500 billion out of Medicare to switch it over to Obamacare. [SEP] Health care reforms proposed during the Obama administration // of processed Medicare fee-for-service claim payments for fiscal year 1999 may have been improperly paid for reasons that ranged from inadvertent error to outright fraud and abuse." Fewer than 5% of Medicare claims are audited. CBO reported in October 2014 that it is difficult to quantify healthcare fraud related to government programs. CBO reported that: "According to HHS, since 2009 the HEAT Medicare task force has filed criminal and civil charges against more than 1,700 defendants who falsely billed the Medicare program for more than $5.5 billion." However, false billing is a partial measure of fraud, as much of it
We know that President Obama stole over $500 billion out of Medicare to switch it over to Obamacare. [SEP] Medicare (United States) // cost savings. Estimated savings from more effective coordinated care for the dual eligibles range from $125 billion to over $200 billion, mostly by eliminating unnecessary, expensive hospital admissions. Income-relating Medicare premiums Both House Republicans and President Obama proposed increasing the additional premiums paid by the wealthiest people with Medicare, compounding several reforms in the ACA that would increase the number of wealthier individuals paying higher, income-related Part B and Part D premiums. Such proposals are projected to save $20 billion over the course of a decade, and would ultimately result in more than a quarter of Medicare enrollees paying between
We know that President Obama stole over $500 billion out of Medicare to switch it over to Obamacare. [SEP] Economic policy of the Barack Obama administration // Medicaid expansion (10 million persons in 2016) and subsidies (approximately 10 million persons received a total of $42 billion in 2016, or about $4,200 each) also served to address after-tax income inequality, by transferring money and providing health insurance to lower-income citizens. A 2016 report from the Obama Administration claimed that "Tax changes enacted since 2009 have boosted the share of after-tax income received by the bottom 99 percent of families by more than the tax changes of any previous Administration since at least 1960." President Obama also attempted to address inequality before taxes (i.e., market income), with an increase
We know that President Obama stole over $500 billion out of Medicare to switch it over to Obamacare. [SEP] America's Affordable Health Choices Act of 2009 // in June 2008 that the Medicare program as currently structured is unsustainable without significant reform, as tax revenues dedicated to the program are not sufficient to cover its rapidly increasing expenditures. According to the CBO, spending on Medicare will grow from $485 billion during 2009 to $879 billion by 2018. President Obama said at a White House news conference on July 22 that, without changes, the system is guaranteed "to basically break the federal budget". He argued that it is necessary to cut wasteful spending which is known to exist (over-testing, no IT, lack of co-ordination, hospital re-admissions) in order
Stay-at-home orders “actually are the law of these states.” [SEP] Uniform Reciprocal Enforcement of Support Act // and if the mother continually registered and had the order modified, then there would be four separate and independent support orders. RURESA provided that the state courts could modify the original order so long as the court applied its own procedural law and the substantive law of the original state, unless that application of substantive law contravened its own public policy. The Commission intended to correct the problem of inconsistent multiple orders by only allowing the support orders to be modified based upon a single state's law. In theory, states A, B and C could only modify a support order
Stay-at-home orders “actually are the law of these states.” [SEP] State legislation in protest of federal law in the United States // law made through executive orders by President Obama, more than a dozen states around the US began proposing legislation that would "...declare that any firearms made and retained in-state are beyond the authority of Congress under its constitutional power to regulate commerce among the states". The legislation would require that the firearm be prominently marked as being "Made in {name of state}" and further prohibit federal regulation solely on the basis that "basic materials" and "generic and insignificant parts" of the firearm may have their origins from outside the state. , 24 states (Alaska, Arizona, California, Colorado, Hawaii, Massachusetts, Maine,
Stay-at-home orders “actually are the law of these states.” [SEP] Executive order // seven Muslim-majority countries, including for permanent residents, was stayed by a federal court on January 28, 2017. Executive orders issued by state governors are not the same as statutes passed by state legislatures, but do have the force of law in a similar way to the federal system. State executive orders are usually based on existing constitutional or statutory powers of the governor and do not require any action by the state legislature to take effect<ref name= https://www.colorado.gov/governor/executive-orders></ref><ref name= https://gov.georgia.gov/executive-orders></ref><ref name= https://www.governor.wa.gov/office-governor/official-actions/executive-orders></ref><ref name= https://www.flgov.com/all-executive-orders></ref><ref name= https://rules.utah.gov/executive-documents></ref> Executive orders may, for example, demand budget cuts from state government when the state
Stay-at-home orders “actually are the law of these states.” [SEP] Stand-your-ground law // it to only when a person is within their vehicle, are North Dakota, Ohio, and Wisconsin. The states that have castle doctrine only with the duty to retreat in public are Arkansas, Connecticut, Delaware, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Minnesota, Nebraska, New York, New Jersey, and Rhode Island. This means that people can use deadly force in their home, car, or other form of abode but have to retreat in public. Vermont and Washington, D.C. require citizens to flee from criminal assailants, even within their own homes. Stand-your-ground laws are frequently labeled "shoot first" laws by opposition groups, including the Brady Campaign
Stay-at-home orders “actually are the law of these states.” [SEP] Uniform Interstate Family Support Act // every state to defer to child support orders entered by the state courts of the child's home state. The place where the order was originally entered holds continuing exclusive jurisdiction (CEJ), and only the law of that state can be applied to requests to modify the order of child support, unless the courts of that state no longer have original tribunal jurisdiction (CEJ) under the Act. The Act also provides various direct interstate enforcement mechanisms. For example, it allows a caretaker parent to have an order mailed to the employer of the obligated parent, which will require that employer to
Stay-at-home orders “actually are the law of these states.” [SEP] Interstate Income Act of 1959 // office in Minnesota. However, the Court did not make clear whether the maintenance of employees in the state (who solicited orders that were delivered and accepted outside the state) would have been enough to give rise to the state’s power to impose its tax. Public Law 86-272 addressed that circumstance by acting as a 'stopgap' by restricting a state from collecting income tax on solicited sales within its borders, as long as the orders are filled or shipped outside of the state. Public Law 86-272 protects only solicitation of orders for tangible personal property. Protection applies to activities that are
Stay-at-home orders “actually are the law of these states.” [SEP] Red flag law // Oregon, Washington, Maryland, and Vermont; as "Risk Protection Orders" in Florida; as "Gun Violence Restraining Orders" in California; as "risk warrants" in Connecticut; and as "Proceedings for the Seizure and Retention of a Firearm" in Indiana. In 1999, Connecticut was the first to enact a red flag law, following a rampage shooting at the Connecticut Lottery. It was followed by Indiana (2005), California (2014), Washington (2016), and Oregon (2017). California was the first state to pass a red flag law allowing family members to petition courts to take weapons from persons deemed a threat, after Elliot Rodger committed a mass
Stay-at-home orders “actually are the law of these states.” [SEP] Uniform Child Custody Jurisdiction and Enforcement Act // child custody order in existence, the emergency court's order will remain in effect until a determination is made in a court having "home state" jurisdiction over the child. If no determination is made, and the emergency court's state becomes the home state of the child, the emergency order becomes a final determination of custody... Uniform Child Custody Jurisdiction and Enforcement Act The Uniform Child Custody Jurisdiction and Enforcement Act (UCCJEA) is a Uniform Act drafted by the National Conference of Commissioners on Uniform State Laws in 1997. The UCCJEA has since been adopted by 49 U.S. States, the District of
Stay-at-home orders “actually are the law of these states.” [SEP] Executive Order 13771 // chairman and Public Citizen Litigation Group lawyer David Vladeck called the executive order "unconstitutional, illegal and stupid," saying "if you really want to reduce the regulatory load, you can't use a shotgun, you have to use a scalpel." On April 17, 2017, fourteen states (West Virginia, Wisconsin, Alabama, Arizona, Arkansas, Georgia, Kansas, Louisiana, Michigan, Nevada, Oklahoma, South Carolina, Texas, and Wyoming) filed an amici curiae in support of the Executive Order. The Republican states argue that the Executive Order falls within allowed presidential authority and will benefit state governments. In March 2017, the US Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) formed
Stay-at-home orders “actually are the law of these states.” [SEP] Child support in the United States // the mother or father remain in the original state, the original state retains continuous exclusive jurisdiction. The second scenario is that the mother moves to Connecticut, and the father moves to a third state (state B), leaving neither party domiciled in the original state. If the order is registered in either Connecticut or in B and that state’s court issues a new order, then the original state loses jurisdiction. In the state where a new order is issued, Connecticut or state B would obtain the power to modify the order. This situation produces a race to the courthouse. The mother
Virginia psychiatric hospitals run short on open beds. [SEP] Virginia Gonzalez Torres // ill, advocates a new treatment, where users of such services have benefits to help them reintegrate into society, so in 1998, promotes actions that lead users to participate in the workshop receive financial support, promotes mental hospitals in the outputs of the user community, and organizes workshops in four state psychiatric hospitals, which also manages the articles sold in stores within these mental hospitals are given at cost to users. Thanks to a public outcry by Virginia Gonzalez in 1999, closing the Ocaranza Psychiatric Hospital. At the same time there is a hope for the mentally ill who are admitted
Virginia psychiatric hospitals run short on open beds. [SEP] Central State Hospital (Virginia) // Central State Hospital (Virginia) Central State Hospital, originally known as the Central Lunatic Asylum, is a psychiatric hospital in Petersburg, Virginia, United States. It was the first institution in the country for "colored persons of unsound mind". Central State Hospital serves the Greater Richmond Region of Virginia, providing forensic psychiatry and civil admissions ranging from short-term treatment to long-term intensive treatment for the most seriously mentally ill. In 1848, slaves in Virginia could be admitted to private asylums if their owners paid for their treatment, but not all owners could afford it, and whites were always given priority admission. It
Virginia psychiatric hospitals run short on open beds. [SEP] Virginia Gonzalez Torres // responsibility for the Hospital to implement the model of psychiatric care Miguel Hidalgo. Virginia has been particularly attentive to the Hospital José Sayago, as it was in the place where he began his work with volunteer groups. On October 19, 2006 Villages were opened in the hospital transition Sayago Hospital, the latter being crucial action to continue implementing the Model Miguel Hidalgo on behalf of users. Later in the year 2009 takes action to continue the revolution within the hospital. A goal is to care for the users who are treated here is made from a humanistic approach, where doctors
Virginia psychiatric hospitals run short on open beds. [SEP] Virginia Gonzalez Torres // to this hospital, because in 2000, were inaugurated transitional villas hospital, whose goal is to leave the overcrowded and have a decent space in which to carry out activities that will lead to rehabilitation. They also open two halfway houses that support the reintegration of users who have been discharged from hospital. The way Virginia has started from the Civil Society, perseverance and courage have enabled him to be recognized as the leading advocate of human rights of mental patients in Mexico. In 2000 assumed the post of Deputy Director of Psychosocial Rehabilitation in the Ministry of Health, from there
Virginia psychiatric hospitals run short on open beds. [SEP] Virginia Gonzalez Torres // to be attended by depression. It was then that Virginia could see that, the psychiatric world, a world of confinement, punishment, neglect and suffering. When visiting her sister in the hospital daily, was awaken their interest in these places, then he realized that he had isolation rooms where patients could stay for days as part of treatment. Over the years Virginia was getting closer to the Psychiatric Hospital in Mexico now, his great ability to empathize with clients allowed them to look at the person behind the diagnosis and may feel their needs, was then given account that has found
Virginia psychiatric hospitals run short on open beds. [SEP] Broadmoor Hospital // allowed to be fully public, where he argued that he has never been given the type of counselling he has always sought; the panel urged the clinicians to work more collaboratively and clearly towards his psychiatric rehabilitation. Because of its high walls and other visible security features, and the inaccurate news reporting it has received in the past, the hospital is often assumed to be a prison by members of the public. Many of its patients are sent to it via the criminal justice system, and its original design brief incorporated an essence of addressing criminality in addition to mental
Virginia psychiatric hospitals run short on open beds. [SEP] Central State Hospital (Virginia) // dentistry, lectures, x-rays, laboratories, treatment, and drug therapy. The second and third floors were for bedridden patients, so that they were undisturbed by out-patient and ambulatory services downstairs. In 1938 a State Colony for people with epilepsy was established on the grounds of the state hospital and later admitted the mentally disabled. It was renamed a training school and hospital in 1954 and then a training center in 1971. In the 1950s the patient population reached 4,800 with the construction of a maximum security forensic building and geriatric unit. Overcrowding was an increasing problem: the East View ward had 300
Virginia psychiatric hospitals run short on open beds. [SEP] Piedmont Geriatric Hospital // system, because they have completed their prison sentences but still meet the criteria for civil commitment as sexually violent predators . PGH treats elderly persons (65+ years of age) who: According to PGH's facility profile, "80-90% of PGH's admissions come from a complex combination of psychiatric and physical impairments whose needs are not met in traditional medical or psychiatric settings". Many hospital residents are transferred there because of complex behavior that nursing homes are not equipped to manage . Under Virginia law, patients must be transferred out of nursing homes if they : Music therapy part of the Psychosocial-Rehabilitation Department.
Virginia psychiatric hospitals run short on open beds. [SEP] Central State Hospital (Virginia) // lawsuit requiring the state of Virginia to notify every patient sterilized between 1924 and 1973 and to pay for operations to reverse the procedure. In 2010 the Central State Hospital Chapel was registered on the National Register of Historic Places as a symbol of the state's unequal treatment of African Americans during the period of segregation. Central State Hospital (Virginia) Central State Hospital, originally known as the Central Lunatic Asylum, is a psychiatric hospital in Petersburg, Virginia, United States. It was the first institution in the country for "colored persons of unsound mind". Central State Hospital serves the Greater Richmond
Virginia psychiatric hospitals run short on open beds. [SEP] Virginia Department of Behavioral Health and Developmental Services // a psychiatric facility for children and adolescents, one is a medical center, one is a psychiatric geriatric hospital and one is a center for behavioral rehabilitation (SVP). For placement in state facilities, patients are initially evaluated and referred from local CSBs. A lawsuit, filed the week of December 8, 2007, by the Virginia Office for Protection and Advocacy, requests the release of information about alleged abuses at two state facilities operated by DMHMRSAS. Reading from a prepared statement, on December 7, 2007, Colleen Miller, director of the Virginia Office for Protection and Advocacy, expressed concerns about the deaths, saying, "If
African-Americans don't use drugs at a higher level than whites but "wind up going to prison six times more. [SEP] Race and crime // were "pretty." A 2013 report by the American Civil Liberties Union found that blacks were "3.73 times more likely than whites to be arrested for marijuana possession", even though "blacks and whites use drugs, including marijuana, at similar rates." Additionally, in 2015, the National Survey on Drug Use and Health reported that African Americans composed 12.5 percent of the illicit drug users, yet 33 percent of them are incarcerated in state facilities. A 2016 analysis by the "New York Times" "of tens of thousands of disciplinary cases against inmates in 2015, hundreds of pages of internal reports and three years
African-Americans don't use drugs at a higher level than whites but "wind up going to prison six times more. [SEP] Race and the War on Drugs // deaths. African-Americans, who only comprised 13% of regular drug users, made up for 35% of drug arrests, 55% of convictions, and 74% of people sent to prison for drug possession crimes. Nationwide African-Americans were sent to state prisons for drug offenses 13 times more often than white men. Crime statistics show that in 1999 in the United States blacks were far more likely to be targeted by law enforcement for drug crimes, and received much stiffer penalties and sentences than whites. A 2000 study found that the disproportionality of black drug offenders in Pennsylvania prisons was unexplained by higher arrest
African-Americans don't use drugs at a higher level than whites but "wind up going to prison six times more. [SEP] Race and the War on Drugs // leading to a reinforcing effect: as more African-Americans are incarcerated, the more the heuristic is enforced in the eyes of the courts. This contributes to yet higher imprisonment rates among African-American children. High numbers of African American arrests and charges of possession show that although the majority of drug users in the United States are white, blacks are the largest group being targeted as the root of the problem. Furthermore, a study by Andrew Golub, Bruce Johnson, and Eloise Dunlap affirms the racial divide in drug arrests, notably marijuana arrests, where blacks with no prior arrests (0.9%) or one prior
African-Americans don't use drugs at a higher level than whites but "wind up going to prison six times more. [SEP] Racialization // crime, drug use, and even violent and gang-oriented crimes. Although white Americans too have a history of living in poverty, the average national rate of family disruption and poverty among blacks is two to four times higher than among whites. Furthermore, another reason for the United States racialized prison system can be seen with the war on drugs. Despite similar rates of drug use among blacks and whites, blacks make up 50% of those incarcerated for drug use compared to only 26% of whites. While the two examples above point to definite explanations for the United States racialized prison system,
African-Americans don't use drugs at a higher level than whites but "wind up going to prison six times more. [SEP] Race and crime in the United States // African Americans are likely to receive sentences 2.6 years longer than those of whites or light-skinned African Americans. When a white victim is involved, the report found that those with more "black" features are likely to receive a much more severe punishment. A 2013 report by the American Civil Liberties Union found that blacks were "3.73 times more likely than whites to be arrested for marijuana possession", even though "blacks and whites use drugs, including marijuana, at similar rates." A 2016 analysis by the "New York Times" "of tens of thousands of disciplinary cases against inmates in 2015, hundreds of
African-Americans don't use drugs at a higher level than whites but "wind up going to prison six times more. [SEP] Criminal stereotype of African Americans // slightly. By the end of the 1980s, African Americans were more than five times more likely than whites to be arrested for drug-related offenses. Blumstein argues that as national self-report data showed that drug use was actually declining among both African Americans and Whites, it is highly unlikely that these race differences in arrest rates represent "real" patterns of drug use. Instead these crime statistics reflect the government's targeting of only specific types of drug use and trafficking. Furthermore, although the "black drug user" stereotype is heavily associated with young African Americans, a recent survey using self-reported data found African
African-Americans don't use drugs at a higher level than whites but "wind up going to prison six times more. [SEP] Race and the War on Drugs // rates, suggesting the possibility of operative discrimination in sentencing. A 2008 paper stated that drug use rates among Blacks (7.4%) were comparable to those among Whites (7.2%), meaning that, since there are far more White Americans than Black Americans, 72% of illegal drug users in America are white, while only 15% are black. According to Michelle Alexander, the author of "The New Jim Crow" and a professor of law at Stanford Law School, even though drug trading is done at similar rates all over the U.S., most people arrested for it are colored. Together, African American and Hispanics comprised 58%
African-Americans don't use drugs at a higher level than whites but "wind up going to prison six times more. [SEP] Race and the War on Drugs // difference across races with regards to the rates of adolescent drug dealing. A 2012 study found that African American youth were less likely than white youth to use or sell drugs, but more likely to be arrested for doing so. A 2013 study by the American Civil Liberties Union determined that a black person in the United States was 3.73 times more likely to be arrested for marijuana possession than a white person, even though both races have similar rates of marijuana use. Iowa had the highest racial disparity of the fifty states. Black people in Iowa were arrested for
African-Americans don't use drugs at a higher level than whites but "wind up going to prison six times more. [SEP] Mass racial violence in the United States // are almost equal, there is a massive inequality in African-American and Latinos sent to prison for drug related crimes. Drug crimes aside, Latinos and African-Americans are being incarcerated at a much larger rate than Caucasians. This has led to an alarming fact that in 2006, 1 out of every 14 African-American men were in prison, compared to only 1 out of every 106 white men. With current trends forecasting that 1 in 3 black men in the United States will go to prison or jail, focus on fixing criminal issues with minorities has been placed to the forefront of pressing
African-Americans don't use drugs at a higher level than whites but "wind up going to prison six times more. [SEP] Race and the War on Drugs // of all prisoners in 2008, even though African Americans and Hispanics make up approximately one quarter of the US population The majority of prisoners are arrested for drug related crime, and in at least 15 states, 3/4 of them are black or Latino people. A 2012 report by the United States Sentencing Commission found that drug sentences for black men were 13.1 percent longer than drug sentences for white men between 2007 and 2009. Professor Cathy Schnieder of International Service at American University notes that in 1989, African Americans, representing 12-15 percent of all drug use in the United States,
More support for osteoporosis drugs [SEP] Steroid-induced osteoporosis // Steroid-induced osteoporosis Steroid-induced osteoporosis (SIOP) is osteoporosis arising due to use of glucocorticoids (steroid hormones) - analogous to Cushing's syndrome and involving mainly the axial skeleton. The synthetic glucocorticoid prescription drug prednisone is a main candidate after prolonged intake. Bisphosphonates are beneficial in reducing the risk of vertebral fractures. Some professional guidelines recommend prophylactic calcium and vitamin D supplementation in patients who take the equivalent of more than 30 mg hydrocortisone (7.5 mg of prednisolone), especially when this is in excess of three months. The use of thiazide diuretics, and gonadal hormone replacement has also been recommended, with the use
More support for osteoporosis drugs [SEP] Merck & Co. // Society and the UK National Osteoporosis Guideline Group recommend alendronate and certain other bisphosphonates as first line treatments for post-menopausal osteopotosis. Long-term treatment with bisphosponates produces anti-fracture and bone mineral density effects that persist for 3–5 years after an initial 3–5 years of treatment. Alendronate reduces the risk of hip, vertebral, and wrist fractures by 35-39%. In December 2013, Merck agreed to pay a total of $27.7 million to 1,200 plaintiffs in a class action lawsuit alleging that the company's osteoporosis drug had caused them to develop osteonecrosis of the jaw. Prior to the settlement, Merck had prevailed in 3
More support for osteoporosis drugs [SEP] Osteoporosis // medication among those at low risk, bisphosphonate treatment can be stopped. In those at higher risk they recommend up to ten years of medication by mouth or six years of intravenous treatment. For those with osteoporosis but who have not had a fracture evidence does not support a reduction in fracture risk with risedronate or etidronate. Alendronate decreases fractures of the spine but does not have any effect on other types of fractures. Half stop their medications within a year. When on treatment with bisphosphonates rechecking bone mineral density is not needed. Another review found tentative evidence of benefit in
More support for osteoporosis drugs [SEP] Osteoporosis // males with osteoporosis. Fluoride supplementation does not appear to be effective in postmenopausal osteoporosis, as even though it increases bone density, it does not decrease the risk of fractures. Teriparatide (a recombinant parathyroid hormone) has been shown to be effective in treatment of women with postmenopausal osteoporosis. Some evidence also indicates strontium ranelate is effective in decreasing the risk of vertebral and nonvertebral fractures in postmenopausal women with osteoporosis. Hormone replacement therapy, while effective for osteoporosis, is only recommended in women who also have menopausal symptoms. It is not recommended for osteoporosis by itself. Raloxifene, while effective in decreasing vertebral
More support for osteoporosis drugs [SEP] Human skeleton // risk of fracture. Osteoporosis treatment includes advice to stop smoking, decrease alcohol consumption, exercise regularly, and have a healthy diet. Calcium supplements may also be advised, as may Vitamin D. When medication is used, it may include bisphosphonates, Strontium ranelate, and osteoporosis may be one factor considered when commencing Hormone replacement therapy. The study of human bones probably started in ancient Greece under Ptolemaic kings due to their link to Egypt. Herophilos, through his work by studying dissected human corpses in Alexandria is credited to be the pioneer of the field. His works are lost but are often cited by
More support for osteoporosis drugs [SEP] Steroid-induced osteoporosis // of calcitonin, bisphosphonates, sodium fluoride or anabolic steroids also suggested in refractory cases. Alternate day use may not prevent this complication. Mechanisms of SIOP include: Steroid-induced osteoporosis Steroid-induced osteoporosis (SIOP) is osteoporosis arising due to use of glucocorticoids (steroid hormones) - analogous to Cushing's syndrome and involving mainly the axial skeleton. The synthetic glucocorticoid prescription drug prednisone is a main candidate after prolonged intake. Bisphosphonates are beneficial in reducing the risk of vertebral fractures. Some professional guidelines recommend prophylactic calcium and vitamin D supplementation in patients who take the equivalent of more than 30 mg hydrocortisone (7.5 mg of prednisolone),
More support for osteoporosis drugs [SEP] National Osteoporosis Society // research into osteoporosis. In the same year 24,000 people signed the charity’s petition to call on the Prime Minister to review government guidance that recommended one type of treatment which a quarter of people were unable to take. The petition was delivered to Downing Street, generating wide scale publicity and media coverage. Craig Revel Horwood and Dr Miriam Stoppard OBE fronted the charity’s ‘Boogie for Your Bones’ awareness campaign about building strong bones through dance, in 2008. Separate manifestos for England, Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland were launched in 2009, setting out steps to improve the prevention, diagnosis, treatment and
More support for osteoporosis drugs [SEP] Bisphosphonate // of action was demonstrated with the initial launch of alendronate by Merck & Co. Bisphosphonate Bisphosphonates are a class of drugs that prevent the loss of bone density, used to treat osteoporosis and similar diseases. They are the most commonly prescribed drugs used to treat osteoporosis. They are called bisphosphonates because they have two phosphonate () groups. They are thus also called diphosphonates ("bis-" or "di-" + "phosphonate"). Evidence shows that they reduce the risk of fracture in post-menopausal women with osteoporosis. Bone tissue undergoes constant remodeling and is kept in balance (homeostasis) by osteoblasts creating bone and osteoclasts destroying
More support for osteoporosis drugs [SEP] Teriparatide // elevated PTH will deplete bone stores. However, intermittent exposure to PTH will activate osteoblasts more than osteoclasts. Thus, once-daily injections of teriparatide have a net effect of stimulating new bone formation leading to increased bone mineral density. Teriparatide is the first FDA approved agent for the treatment of osteoporosis that stimulates new bone formation. Teriparatide was approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) on 26 November 2002, for the treatment of osteoporosis in men and postmenopausal women who are at high risk for having a fracture. The drug is also approved to increase bone mass in men with primary
More support for osteoporosis drugs [SEP] Osteoporosis // and greater-than-normal bone loss. Bone loss increases after menopause due to lower levels of estrogen. Osteoporosis may also occur due to a number of diseases or treatments, including alcoholism, anorexia, hyperthyroidism, kidney disease, and surgical removal of the ovaries. Certain medications increase the rate of bone loss, including some antiseizure medications, chemotherapy, proton pump inhibitors, selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, and glucocorticosteroids. Smoking and too little exercise are also risk factors. Osteoporosis is defined as a bone density of 2.5 standard deviations below that of a young adult. This is typically measured by dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry. Prevention of osteoporosis includes a
The Democrats have already voted to ban our conventional light bulbs ... in favor of dangerous fluorescent light bulbs. [SEP] Nick Rahall // voted against the bill on final passage. As a result of the legislation, as of January 1, 2014, incandescent light bulbs between 40 watts and 150 watts are illegal to manufacture or import. In 2013, Rahall voted for the Progressive Caucus's budget, which included provisions for a carbon tax. The budget failed to pass. Rahall and another Congressman of Arab descent traveled to Syria and ignored State Department policy by meeting with Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat, whom Rahall had known for years. Queen Noor of Jordan presented Rahall with the first Najeeb Halaby Award for public service. Rahall opposed the
The Democrats have already voted to ban our conventional light bulbs ... in favor of dangerous fluorescent light bulbs. [SEP] Michael C. Burgess // light bulbs. However, Burgess' claims that the standards represented a "ban" on conventional lightbulbs were rated as "Mostly False" by the fact checking website PolitiFact.com. On April 30, 2015, Burgess once again introduced an amendment to the $35.4 billion fiscal 2016 energy and water spending bill which would defund the Department of Energy enforcement of incandescent light bulb efficiency standards, a measure which passed 232-189, largely on a party line vote Burgess is skeptical of the scientific consensus on climate change. On March 8, 2011 in a hearing before the Subcommittee on Energy and Power of the House Committee on
The Democrats have already voted to ban our conventional light bulbs ... in favor of dangerous fluorescent light bulbs. [SEP] Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 // other than oil. Another supporter of the bill, Representative Steve Rothman of New Jersey, said that if the proposed bill passed, "the U.S. can improve air quality, create jobs, and corner a new business market." Under the law, incandescent bulbs that produced 310–2600 lumens of light were effectively phased out between 2012 and 2014 unless they could meet the increasing energy efficiency standards mandated by the bill. Bulbs outside this range (roughly, light bulbs currently less than 40 watts or more than 150 watts) were exempt from the ban. Also exempt were several classes of speciality lights, including appliance lamps,
The Democrats have already voted to ban our conventional light bulbs ... in favor of dangerous fluorescent light bulbs. [SEP] Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 // consumer behavior (i.e. car purchase decisions and total miles driven). Compact fluorescent lamps were an existing technology that exceeded the initial EISA 2007 requirements for lumens per watt. LED bulbs were not in widespread use or affordable in 2007. Energy efficient halogen bulbs also met the minimum EISA requirements (see below). The majority of the supporters for the original bill were Representatives from the Democratic party. Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi described the vote as "the first step toward a future of energy independence." Moira Chapin, Environment California Federal Field Organizer, said "the 110th Congress made a down payment
The Democrats have already voted to ban our conventional light bulbs ... in favor of dangerous fluorescent light bulbs. [SEP] Phase-out of incandescent light bulbs // government departments, public sector undertakings, various boards, cooperative institutions, local bodies, and institutions running on government aid. Japan will phase out incandescent light bulbs and fluorescents by 2020. Kazakhstan banned all bulbs over 25W on 1 January 2014. As of 1 August 2017, Kuwait has banned the import of incandescent light bulbs, including halogen bulbs. It was reported in 2012 that Malaysia would ban incandescent bulbs by 2014. North Korea reportedly made LED bulbs mandatory in 2014 in order to alleviate its energy crisis. In February 2008, president Gloria Macapagal Arroyo called for a ban of incandescent light bulbs by
The Democrats have already voted to ban our conventional light bulbs ... in favor of dangerous fluorescent light bulbs. [SEP] Michele Bachmann // repealed two sections of the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 signed into law by George W. Bush. The 2007 Energy Act mandates energy efficiency and labeling standards for incandescent and fluorescent bulbs. Bachmann's bill would have required the Government Accountability Office to show that a change to fluorescent bulbs would have "clear economic, health and environmental benefits" before enforcing lighting efficiency regulations. The bill would have allowed these standards to remain in place if the comptroller general found they would lead to consumer savings, reduce carbon-dioxide emissions and pose no health risks to consumers (such as risks posed
The Democrats have already voted to ban our conventional light bulbs ... in favor of dangerous fluorescent light bulbs. [SEP] Phase-out of incandescent light bulbs // CFLs, and banned the sale and import of them in 2006–07. California will phase out the use of incandescent bulbs by 2018. The bill aims to establish a minimum standard of twenty-five lumens per watt by 2013 and sixty lumens per watt by 2018. In Connecticut legislation was proposed. A bill was introduced in New Jersey in 2007 that calls for the state to eliminate incandescent bulbs in government buildings over the next three years. In Utah energy efficiency standards for government buildings were passed in 1999 that, in practice, require the adoption of energy efficient technology, including LEDs, as
The Democrats have already voted to ban our conventional light bulbs ... in favor of dangerous fluorescent light bulbs. [SEP] Phase-out of incandescent light bulbs // U.S. House passed the final 2012 budget legislation, which effectively delayed the implementation until October 2012. In 2014 the spending bill proposed by the House effectively blocked the energy efficiency standards in the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007, which would have made incandescent light bulbs obsolete. As of 2018, incandescent bulbs are set to be banned in the United States in 2020. In February 2007, Australia enacted a law that will, in effect, by legislating efficiency standards, disallow most sales of incandescent light bulbs by 2010. The Australian Federal Government announced minimum energy performance standards (MEPS) for lighting
The Democrats have already voted to ban our conventional light bulbs ... in favor of dangerous fluorescent light bulbs. [SEP] Phase-out of incandescent light bulbs // and sale of incandescent bulbs since December 2015. Ecuador has banned incandescent bulbs. As part of its electricity conservation program, Venezuela has a light bulb exchange program, which aims to replace millions of incandescent bulbs with compact fluorescents. The phase out has been referred to as "light bulb socialism". The consumer preference for light bulbs in the EU is for incandescent bulbs, with many complaining about what was described as the ugliness or the cold, flat, unnatural, dull light emanating from CFLs. Objection has also been raised to being forced to adopt CFLs. Bulk purchasing of incandescent bulbs was reported
The Democrats have already voted to ban our conventional light bulbs ... in favor of dangerous fluorescent light bulbs. [SEP] Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 // specialty bulbs. The phase-out of inefficient incandescent light bulbs was supported by the Alliance to Save Energy, a coalition of light bulb manufacturers, electric utilities and conservation groups. The group estimated that lighting accounts for 22% of total U.S. electricity usage, and that eliminating incandescent bulbs completely would save $18 billion per year (equivalent to the output of 80 coal plants). Light bulb manufacturers also hoped a single national standard would prevent the enactment of conflicting bans and efficiency standards by state governments. The initial version of H.R. 6 passed the House of Representatives on January 18, 2007, by a
Wells Fargo and Chase are invested in the Dakota Access Pipeline. [SEP] Wells Fargo // to allege racketeering. Wells Fargo is a top investor in the Dakota Access Pipeline project in North Dakota, a 1,172-mile-long (1,886 km) underground oil pipeline project in the United States. The pipeline has been controversial regarding its necessity, and potential impact on the environment. In February 2017, Seattle, Washington's city council unanimously voted to not renew its contract with Wells Fargo "in a move that cites the bank's role as a lender to the Dakota Access Pipeline project as well as its "creation of millions of bogus accounts." and saying the bidding process for its next banking partner will involve
Wells Fargo and Chase are invested in the Dakota Access Pipeline. [SEP] Dakota Access Pipeline // Norwegian bank DNB ASA announced in November 2016 to use its position as a lender of over $342 million credit "to encourage a more constructive process to find solutions to the conflict that has arisen." In February 2017, Seattle, Washington's city council unanimously voted to not renew its contract with Wells Fargo "in a move that cites the bank's role as a lender to the Dakota Access Pipeline project as well as its "creation of millions of bogus accounts" and saying the bidding process for its next banking partner will involve "social responsibility." The City Council in Davis, California, took
Wells Fargo and Chase are invested in the Dakota Access Pipeline. [SEP] Dakota Access Pipeline // terminals in Nederland, Texas. The pipeline project costs $3.78 billion, of which $2.5 billion has been financed by loans, while the rest of the capital would be raised by the sale of a 49% stake in Dakota Access, LLC (36.8% indirect stake in the pipeline) to Enbridge and Marathon Petroleum. The loans have been provided by a group of 17 banks, including Citibank, Wells Fargo, BNP Paribas, SunTrust, Royal Bank of Scotland, Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi, Mizuho Bank, TD Securities, ABN AMRO Capital, ING Bank, DNB ASA, ICBC, SMBC Nikko Securities and Société Générale. Due to protests against the pipeline, the
Wells Fargo and Chase are invested in the Dakota Access Pipeline. [SEP] Dakota Access Pipeline protests // bodies between Native elders and a privatized military force. We've stood in the face of fire before. We feel a responsibility to use the skills we have." In February 2017, Seattle, Washington's city council unanimously voted to not renew its contract with Wells Fargo in a move that cites the bank's role as a lender to the Dakota Access Pipeline project as well as its "creation of millions of bogus accounts" and said the bidding process for its next banking partner would involve "social responsibility." The City Council in Davis, California, took a similar action, voting unanimously to find a
Wells Fargo and Chase are invested in the Dakota Access Pipeline. [SEP] Chase Bank // a "wide variety of merchants, including grocers and drug stores, that sell similar products". Financial documents from Energy Transfer Partners, the pipeline builder for the Dakota Access Pipeline, lists a number of large banking institutions that have provided credit for the project, including JP Morgan Chase. Because of these financial ties, Chase and other banks have been a target of the Dakota Access Pipeline protests during 2016 and 2017. Chase Bank J.P. Morgan Chase Bank, N.A., doing business as Chase Bank, is a national bank headquartered in Manhattan, New York City, that constitutes the consumer and commercial banking subsidiary of
Wells Fargo and Chase are invested in the Dakota Access Pipeline. [SEP] Dakota Access Pipeline // Dakota Access, LLC, owns 75% of the pipeline while Phillips 66 owns a 25% stake. Energy Transfer Partners LP and Sunoco Logistic Partners LP owns together 51% and MarEn Bakken Company, the joint venture of Enbridge (75%) and Marathon Petroleum, owns 49% of the Dakota Access, LLC. It gives the following indirect stakes in the pipeline: Energy Transfer Partners and Sunoco Logistic Partners, both subsidiaries of Energy Transfer Equity LP, has announced their merger. Bakken Holdings Company and Phillips 66 also co-own another part of the Bakken system, the Energy Transfer Crude Oil Pipeline which runs from Patoka to storage
Wells Fargo and Chase are invested in the Dakota Access Pipeline. [SEP] Citibank // the Dakota Access Pipeline project in North Dakota, a oil pipeline project. The pipeline has been controversial regarding its potential environmental impacts and impacts to Siouan sacred lands and water supply. According to a statement by Hugh MacMillan, a senior researcher on water, energy and climate issues, Citibank has been "running the books on this project, and that's the bank that beat the bushes and got other banks to join in." On December 13, 2016, students of Columbia University protested outside of the Citibank location on Broadway and 112th Street, by holding cardboard signs, chanting and passing flyers. Earlier that
Wells Fargo and Chase are invested in the Dakota Access Pipeline. [SEP] Dakota Access Pipeline // stake in Dakota Access, LLC for $2 billion. The deal was completed in February 2017 after the final easement was granted. In September 2016 the U.S Department of Justice received more than 33,000 petitions to review all permits and order a full review of the project's environmental effects. On September 9, 2016, the US Departments of Justice, Army, and Interior issued a joint statement to temporarily halt the project on federal land bordering or under the Lake Oahe reservoir. The US federal government asked the company for a "voluntary pause" on construction near the area until further study was done
Wells Fargo and Chase are invested in the Dakota Access Pipeline. [SEP] Energy Transfer Partners // company was renamed as Energy Transfer LP after it merged with Energy Transfer Equity. Dakota Access, LLC is a subsidiary of the company, tasked with building the Bakken pipeline, also known as the Dakota Access Pipeline. In April 2016, three federal agencies — U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, U.S. Department of Interior, and Advisory Council on Historic Preservation — requested a full Environmental Impact Statement of the pipeline. In July, the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe filed an injunction against the US Army Corps of Engineers to stop building the pipeline. A group of young activists from Standing Rock ran from North
Wells Fargo and Chase are invested in the Dakota Access Pipeline. [SEP] Dakota Access Pipeline // a pumping station), Polk, Jasper, Mahaska Keokuk, Wapello, Jefferson, Van Buren, and Lee. The system includes one electric pump station. In Illinois, the route traverses 12 counties. Energy Transfer Partners approved and announced the pipeline project on June 25, 2014. In October 2014, Phillips 66 acquired 25% stake in the project. In September 2014, Dakota Access held an initial informational meeting with the Standing Rock Sioux Tribal Council. Informational meetings for South Dakota and Illinois landowners were held in October 2014, and starting on December 1, 2014, in each of the affected counties in Iowa. Meetings in Fort Madison, Sioux
Coca-Cola is an effective contraceptive. [SEP] Combined oral contraceptive pill // that increasing access to contraception, including birth control pills, can be an effective strategy for climate change mitigation as well as adaptation. According to Thomas Wire, contraception is the 'greenest technology' because of its cost-effectiveness in combating global warming — each $7 spent on family planning would reduce global carbon emissions by 1 tonne over four decades, while achieving the same result with low-carbon technologies would require $32. If all the current unmet need for contraception were met, that would reduce global carbon dioxide emissions by 34 gigatonnes between 2010 and 2050. Combined oral contraceptive pill The combined oral contraceptive
Coca-Cola is an effective contraceptive. [SEP] The Coca-Cola Company // $46 million political campaign known as "The Coalition Against The Costly Food Labeling Proposition, sponsored by Farmers and Food Producers". This organization was set up to oppose a citizen's initiative, known as Proposition 37, demanding mandatory labeling of foods containing genetically modified ingredients. In 2012, Coca-Cola was listed as a partner of the (RED) campaign, together with other brands such as Nike, Girl, American Express, and Converse. The campaign's mission is to prevent the transmission of the HIV virus from mother to child by 2015 (the campaign's byline is "Fighting for an AIDS Free Generation"). Since the early 2000s, the
Coca-Cola is an effective contraceptive. [SEP] Coca // Also known as "supercoca" or "la millionaria", Boliviana negra is a relatively new form of coca that is resistant to a herbicide called glyphosate. Glyphosate is a key ingredient in the multibillion-dollar aerial coca eradication campaign undertaken by the government of Colombia with U.S. financial and military backing known as Plan Colombia. The herbicide resistance of this strain has at least two possible explanations: that a "peer-to-peer" network of coca farmers used selective breeding to enhance this trait through tireless effort, or the plant was genetically modified in a laboratory. In 1996, a patented glyphosate-resistant soybean was marketed by Monsanto
Coca-Cola is an effective contraceptive. [SEP] Cervix // 6%. Efficacy rates are lower for the cap, with 18% of women undergoing an unintended pregnancy, and 10–13% with optimal use. Most types of progestogen-only pills are effective as a contraceptive because they thicken cervical mucus making it difficult for sperm to pass along the cervical canal. In addition, they may also sometimes prevent ovulation. In contrast, contraceptive pills that contain both oestrogen and progesterone, the combined oral contraceptive pills, work mainly by preventing ovulation. They also thicken cervical mucus and thin the lining of the uterus enhancing their effectiveness. In 2008, cervical cancer was the third-most common cancer in
Coca-Cola is an effective contraceptive. [SEP] Coca-Cola formula // a successor within the company and impart the secret to that person. The identity of the two employees in possession of the secret is itself a secret. During the late 19th century, Coca-Cola was one of many popular coca-based drinks with purported medicinal properties and benefits to health; early marketing materials claimed that Coca-Cola alleviated headaches and acted as a "brain and nerve tonic". Coca leaves were used in Coca-Cola's preparation; the small amount of cocaine they contained—along with caffeine—provided the drink's "tonic" quality. In 1903, cocaine was removed, leaving caffeine as the sole stimulant ingredient, and all medicinal claims
Coca-Cola is an effective contraceptive. [SEP] Mary Ann Leeper // counter contraceptive, which has been FDA approved for over 20 years. The female condom gives females an option in choosing the best contraceptive, while remaining sexually active. The female condom contains just as high of a success rate as the male condom. It has between 93% to 95% pregnancy prevention success, which is lower than oral contraceptives, injectables, or the IUD. United Nation have given her various recognition awards for her work on women's sexual and reproductive health.Women's Entrepreneurship from Temple University's School of Business (November 2003) As a senior strategic advisor, Leeper has received several prestigious awards, starting from
Coca-Cola is an effective contraceptive. [SEP] Teenage pregnancy // teenagers, particularly poor ones, than for older users. Long-acting contraceptives such as intrauterine devices, subcutaneous contraceptive implants, and contraceptive injections (such as Depo-Provera and Combined injectable contraceptive), which prevent pregnancy for months or years at a time, are more effective in women who have trouble remembering to take pills or using barrier methods consistently. According to The Encyclopedia of Women's Health, published in 2004, there has been an increased effort to provide contraception to adolescents via family planning services and school-based health, such as HIV prevention education. Studies from South Africa have found that 11–20% of pregnancies in teenagers are
Coca-Cola is an effective contraceptive. [SEP] Population Council // around reproduction out of wedlock, its accessibility, and the public's opinion of birth control are instrumental in the region's fertility. An array of contraceptives available around the world today were developed by the Population Council, including: the Copper T Intrauterine device, Norplant, Jadelle (Norplant II), and Mirena. More than 50 million Copper T IUDs have been distributed in over 70 countries. Norplant was replaced by Jadelle. The British medical journal "Lancet" said of the Population Council, "Most non-governmental organizations claim to promote change; the Population Council actually has hard evidence of having changed the lives and expectations of hundreds of
Coca-Cola is an effective contraceptive. [SEP] Women's health // that saves lives and reduces poverty, and birth control has been considered amongst the 10 great public health achievements of the 20th century. To optimise women's control over pregnancy, it is essential that culturally appropriate contraceptive advice and means are widely, easily, and affordably available to anyone that is sexually active, including adolescents. In many parts of the world access to contraception and family planning services is very difficult or non existent and even in developed counties cultural and religious traditions can create barriers to access. Reported usage of adequate contraception by women has risen only slightly between 1990 and
Coca-Cola is an effective contraceptive. [SEP] Emergency contraception // The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved this off-label use of certain brands of regular combined oral contraceptive pills in 1997. As of 2014, there are 26 brands of regular combined oral contraceptive pills containing levonorgestrel or norgestrel available in the United States that can be used in the emergency contraceptive Yuzpe regimen. Ulipristal acetate, and mid-dose mifepristone is more effective than levonorgestrel, which is more effective than the Yuzpe method. The effectiveness of emergency contraception is expressed as a percentage reduction in pregnancy rate for a single use of EC. Using an example of "75% effective", the effectiveness
New Ebola case in Congo, days before outbreak’s expected end. [SEP] 2014 Democratic Republic of the Congo Ebola virus outbreak // since the last reported case tested negative for the second time and was discharged. It was stated that the DRC would therefore be declared free of Ebola disease 42 days after the date of the second negative test if no new cases were reported. The outbreak was declared over on 15 November 2014. In October 2014, it was reported that more recent findings suggested that there may have been several previous cases. The husband of the woman that was believed to have been the index case told an investigation team that shortly before she became ill she had visited two
New Ebola case in Congo, days before outbreak’s expected end. [SEP] West African Ebola virus epidemic // on the Guinean border. Sierra Leone had entered a 90-day period of enhanced surveillance that was scheduled to end on 5 February 2016, when, on 14 January, a new Ebola death was reported in the Tonkolili District. Prior to this case, the WHO had advised that "we still anticipate more flare-ups and must be prepared for them. A massive effort is underway to ensure robust prevention, surveillance and response capacity across all three countries by the end of March." On 16 January, aid workers reported that a woman had died of the virus and that she may have exposed several
New Ebola case in Congo, days before outbreak’s expected end. [SEP] 2017 Democratic Republic of the Congo Ebola virus outbreak // DRC Minister of Public Health, Dr Oly Ilunga Kalenga, declared that the country had passed a 42-day period with no new recorded cases, and therefore the outbreak was over. A subsequent outbreak of Ebola was declared by WHO on 8 May 2018, in the northwest Province of Équateur. The first "situation report" from the WHO on 15 May 2017 listed 19 suspected cases and 3 deaths. The first person to request treatment was a 39-year-old male. On 16 May, the WHO indicated that there had been 21 suspected cases and 3 deaths. Approximately 400 additional individuals were being monitored in
New Ebola case in Congo, days before outbreak’s expected end. [SEP] Ebola virus epidemic in Sierra Leone // gone 8 days without an Ebola case, and was down to two confirmed cases of Ebola. The WHO weekly update for 29 July reported a total of only three new cases, the lowest total in more than a year. On 17 August, the country had its first week with no new cases, and one week later the last patients were released. A new death was reported on 1 September after a patient from Sella Kafta village in Kambia District was tested positive for the disease after her death. On 5 September another case of Ebola was identified in the village
New Ebola case in Congo, days before outbreak’s expected end. [SEP] 2018 Équateur province Ebola outbreak // 500 people in the city had been vaccinated. On 29 May, the WHO indicated that nine neighbouring countries had been alerted for being at high risk of spread of EVD, On 4 June, it was reported that Angola had closed its border with the DRC due to the outbreak. This outbreak in the Democratic Republic of the Congo was declared over on 24 July 2018 after 42 days passed without any new confirmed cases. However, it is noted that a new outbreak occurred only one week later in the eastern region of Kivu, and it has not been established whether
New Ebola case in Congo, days before outbreak’s expected end. [SEP] Ebola virus epidemic in Sierra Leone // to this case WHO had advised, "we anticipate more flare-ups and must be prepared for them ... massive effort is underway to ensure robust prevention, surveillance and response capacity across all three countries by the end of March." On 16 January, it was reported that the woman who died of the virus may have exposed several individuals; the government announced that 100 people had been quarantined. On the same day, WHO released a statement, indicating that originally the 90-day enhanced surveillance period was to end on 5 February. Investigations indicate the female case was a student at Lunsar in Port
New Ebola case in Congo, days before outbreak’s expected end. [SEP] 2014 Democratic Republic of the Congo Ebola virus outbreak // suspected or likely cases. On 9 September, the WHO raised the number of cases to 62 and the death toll to 35 from possible or confirmed Ebola cases. Included in this number were 9 health-care workers with 7 deaths among them. In total, 386 contacts were listed and 239 contacts were being followed. The outbreak was still contained in Jeera county in the Boende region. As of 28 October, there had been 66 cases reported. In total, 49 deaths had been reported, including eight among health care workers. No new reported contacts were being followed and twenty days had passed
New Ebola case in Congo, days before outbreak’s expected end. [SEP] 2017 Democratic Republic of the Congo Ebola virus outbreak // the same region of the DRC. On 17 May, WHO said that the number of individuals being monitored had risen to about 416, while the following day, the number of confirmed and suspected cases had risen to 29. As of 24 May, 520 individuals were reported to be on the contact list to monitor their health status. Of those, 226 had completed 21 days of monitoring. As of 27 May, 30 cases had been reclassified as not Ebola-related. On 13 May 2017, Doctors Without Borders indicated that they would send a team to the most recently affected area in the
New Ebola case in Congo, days before outbreak’s expected end. [SEP] 2018 Kivu Ebola outbreak // the Democratic Republic of the Congo, though there are as yet no confirmed cases in the country of Uganda. According to the International Red Cross, a 'most likely scenario' entails an asymptomatic case will at some point enter the country of Uganda undetected among the numerous refugees coming from the DRC. On 20 September Uganda indicated it was ready for immediate vaccination, should the Ebola virus be detected in any individual. On 21 September, officials of the Democratic Republic of the Congo indicated a confirmed case of EVD at Lake Albert, an entry point into Uganda, though no case has
New Ebola case in Congo, days before outbreak’s expected end. [SEP] 2018 Kivu Ebola outbreak // as "probable cases". The Uganda Ministry of Health has issued an alert for extra surveillance as the neighboring outbreak in the DRC is just away from its border. On 7 August, the DRC Ministry of Public Health indicated that the total count had climbed to almost 90 cases; two days later, on 9 August, it was nearly 100 cases. On 16 August, the United Kingdom indicated it would help with EVD diagnosis and monitoring in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. On 17 August, the WHO reported that "contacts" numbered about 1500 individuals, however there could be more in certain
“President Trump has banned welfare for illegal immigrants which will save $57.4 billion a year.” [SEP] Economic policy of Donald Trump // remains, it would cost the average American $450 a year, offsetting about half the tax [cut] benefit." President Trump's withdrawal from the Iran nuclear deal was one factor in the increase in gas and oil prices, along with quotas established by OPEC in the face of an economy growing worldwide. In July 27, 2018 remarks about the economy, Trump stated, "More than 10 million additional Americans had been added to food stamps, past years. But we've turned it all around." SNAP participation had been steadily declining since December 2012. HUD reported in December 2017 that homelessness increased 0.7% in 2017,
“President Trump has banned welfare for illegal immigrants which will save $57.4 billion a year.” [SEP] Presidency of Donald Trump // climate change in part contributed to the fires. Trump has repeatedly characterized illegal immigrants as criminals, although multiple studies have found they have lower crime and incarceration rates than native-born Americans. Prior to taking office, Trump promised to deport the 11 million illegal immigrants living in the United States and to build a wall along the Mexico–United States border. In January 2017, Trump signed an executive order directing the DHS Secretary to begin work on a wall. An internal DHS report estimated that Trump's wall would cost $21.6 billion and take 3.5 years to build (far higher than the Trump
“President Trump has banned welfare for illegal immigrants which will save $57.4 billion a year.” [SEP] Mexico–United States barrier // and pay for itself." Trump also touted a report he had seen on Fox News that cited a study by the Center for Immigration Studies, in which it claimed that a wall along the Mexican border could save taxpayers $64 billion by reducing crime and welfare costs for undocumented immigrants over the next 10 years. Some dispute this, claiming the wall and maintenance would cost more than predicted and that illegal immigrants would just find another way into the nation. In August 2017, while speaking at a rally in Phoenix, Arizona, Trump stated he will close down the U.S. government
“President Trump has banned welfare for illegal immigrants which will save $57.4 billion a year.” [SEP] Immigration policy of Donald Trump // estimates that deporting every undocumented immigrant would cause a slump of $381.5 billion to $623.2 billion in private sector output, amounting to roughly a loss of 2% of U.S. GDP. Doug Holtz-Eakin, the group's president, has said that the mass deportation of 11 million people would "harm the economy in ways it would normally not be harmed". In June 2016, Trump stated on Twitter that "I have never liked the media term 'mass deportation'—but we must enforce the laws of the land!" Later in June, Trump stated that he would not characterize his immigration policies as including "mass deportations". However,
“President Trump has banned welfare for illegal immigrants which will save $57.4 billion a year.” [SEP] Federation for American Immigration Reform // country represented." With the election of President Trump, some of the United States' "most ardent" advocates for reducing immigration levels—such as FAIR, the Center for Immigration Studies, and NumbersUSA—have an opportunity "to dramatically reduce legal immigration". These three groups enjoy "formidable grassroots support" across the United States. As of the end 2016, FAIR's annual budget reached $11.2 million. In May 2017, Julie Kirchner, FAIR’s executive director since 2005, was named as ombudsman of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services Ombudsman reporting to the Department of Homeland Security. A 2017 FAIR report claimed that undocumented immigrants in the United States were approximately
“President Trump has banned welfare for illegal immigrants which will save $57.4 billion a year.” [SEP] Kris Kobach // on immigration. He proposed a halt to what he said was $23 billion in annual remittances by Mexican nationals illegally living in the U.S. unless Mexico makes a one-time $5–10 billion payment for Trump's proposed wall along the U.S.-Mexico border. On August 1, 2018, Kobach's office was ordered by federal judge Julie Robinson to pay $26,000 in attorney fees to the Kansas American civil Liberties Union for court costs in a proof-of-citizenship case which he lost. In September 2014, Democrat Chad Taylor announced he was withdrawing from that year's U.S. Senate race in Kansas. Kobach ruled that he had improperly
“President Trump has banned welfare for illegal immigrants which will save $57.4 billion a year.” [SEP] Presidency of Donald Trump // been in place in 2005 (the one recent year in which his tax returns were leaked), he would have saved $31 million in taxes from the alternative minimum tax cut alone. If the most recent estimate of the value of Trump's assets is correct, the repeal of the estate tax could save his family about $1.1 billion. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin argued that the corporate income tax cut will benefit workers the most; however, the nonpartisan Joint Committee on Taxation, Congressional Budget Office and many economists estimated that owners of capital would benefit vastly more than workers. According to "The
“President Trump has banned welfare for illegal immigrants which will save $57.4 billion a year.” [SEP] Economic policy of Donald Trump // $13.7 trillion (CBO current policy baseline), a $4.3 trillion or 46% increase. The economic policy positions of United States President Donald Trump prior to his election had elements from across the political spectrum. However, once in office his actions indicated a politically rightward shift towards more conservative economic policies. Prior to election, then-candidate Trump proposed sizable income tax cuts and deregulation consistent with conservative (Republican Party) policies, along with significant infrastructure investment and status-quo protection for entitlements for the elderly, typically considered liberal (Democratic Party) policies. His anti-globalization policies of trade protectionism and immigration reduction cross party lines. This combination
“President Trump has banned welfare for illegal immigrants which will save $57.4 billion a year.” [SEP] Economic policy of Donald Trump // had been in place in 2005 (the one recent year in which his tax returns were leaked), he would have saved $31 million in taxes from the alternative minimum tax cut alone. If the most recent estimate of the value of Trump's assets is correct, the repeal of the estate tax could save his family about $1.1 billion. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin argued that the corporate income tax cut will benefit workers the most; however, the nonpartisan Joint Committee on Taxation and Congressional Budget Office estimate that owners of capital benefit vastly more than workers. Economist Paul Krugman summarized what
“President Trump has banned welfare for illegal immigrants which will save $57.4 billion a year.” [SEP] Time to Get Tough // it will harm employment opportunities. Trump describes a plan for four tiers of income taxes, with the top bracket being taxed at fifteen percent on income above US$ one million per year, and abolishing corporate tax in the United States. With regards to Social Security, Trump recommends lifting the retirement age and spending the savings elsewhere. Other chapters express support for increased military spending and criticism of free trade, and call for curtailing immigration to the United States. He criticizes illegal immigration to the United States specifically, saying it causes economic harm to American citizens. On foreign policy issues, Trump
Ben Carson Says he "didn’t have an involvement with" nutritional supplement company Mannatech. [SEP] Ben Carson // disease. In 2004, in a speech at a Mannatech, Inc. event, he credited the company's products with the disappearance of his cancer symptoms. According to CNN, Carson had an "extensive relationship" from 2004 to 2014 with Mannatech, a multi-level marketing company that produces dietary supplements made from substances such as aloe vera extract and larch-tree bark. Carson gave four paid speeches at company events. He has denied being paid by Mannatech to do anything else, saying he has been a "prolific speaker" who has addressed many groups. The nature of this relationship became an issue in 2015 during Carson's presidential
Ben Carson Says he "didn’t have an involvement with" nutritional supplement company Mannatech. [SEP] Ben Carson // campaign. Carson's relationship with Mannatech continued after the company paid $7 million in 2009 to settle a deceptive-marketing lawsuit, in Texas, over claims that its products could cure autism and cancer. His most recent paid speech for the company was in 2013, for which he was paid $42,000. His image appeared on the corporation's website in 2014, and in the same year, he praised their "glyconutrient" supplements in a PBS special that was subsequently featured on the site. Carson delivered the keynote address at a Mannatech distributor convention in 2011, during which he said the company had donated funds to
Ben Carson Says he "didn’t have an involvement with" nutritional supplement company Mannatech. [SEP] Mannatech // and its products. In 2004, in a speech at a Mannatech event, he credited the company's products with the disappearance of his cancer symptoms. Carson's image still appeared on the Mannatech's website in 2014, and in the same year he praised their "glyconutrient" supplements in a PBS special ("The Missing Link – The Science of Brain Health"), sponsored by a group of Mannatech distributors, that was subsequently featured on the site. During the CNBC GOP debate on October 28, 2015, Carson was asked about his relationship with Mannatech and denied any involvement with the company. Politifact rated Carson's denial of
Ben Carson Says he "didn’t have an involvement with" nutritional supplement company Mannatech. [SEP] Ben Carson // During the CNBC GOP debate on October 28, 2015, Carson was asked about his relationship with Mannatech. He replied, "That's easy to answer. I didn't have any involvement with Mannatech. Total propaganda. I did a couple speeches for them. I did speeches for other people—they were paid speeches. It is absolutely absurd to say I had any kind of relation with them. Do I take the product? Yes. I think it is a good product." Politifact rated Carson's denial of any involvement as "false", pointing to his paid speeches for Mannatech and his appearances in promotional videos in which he
Ben Carson Says he "didn’t have an involvement with" nutritional supplement company Mannatech. [SEP] Ben Carson // favorably reviewed its products, despite not being "an official spokesman or sales associate". When the CNBC moderator commented that Carson was on Mannatech's website, Carson replied that he had not given his permission. Earlier, he had said that he was unaware of the company's legal history. On November 3, 2015, Mannatech said on its website that for compliance with Federal campaign finance regulations, the company had removed all references to Carson before he announced his bid for the presidency. In July 2013, Carson was hired by "The Washington Times" as a weekly opinion columnist. In October 2013, Fox News hired
Ben Carson Says he "didn’t have an involvement with" nutritional supplement company Mannatech. [SEP] Mannatech // any involvement as "false". In November 2015, Mannatech said on its website that, for compliance with Federal campaign finance regulations, the company had removed all references to Carson before he announced his bid for the presidency. Mannatech Mannatech is a multinational multi-level marketing firm that sells dietary supplements and personal care products, with a history of false claims and lawsuits. It was founded in November 1993 by Samuel Caster and is headquartered in Coppell, Texas. The company's stock is traded on the NASDAQ exchange under the symbol MTEX. As of 2017, Mannatech employed 252 people and sold its products through
Ben Carson Says he "didn’t have an involvement with" nutritional supplement company Mannatech. [SEP] Mannatech // profits of $6.5 million and total revenue of $190.1 million. In November 2017, Mannatech received an FDA warning letter for illegally marketing several of its supplement products as medicinal agents and for selling adulterated and misbranded products in violation of Title 21 of the Code of Federal Regulations and Good Manufacturing Practice regulations for dietary supplements. In December 2017, Mannatech reached an agreement with the Town Council of Flower Mound, Texas, to relocate its headquarters to an existing facility in the city. Starting in 2004, neurosurgeon and conservative politician Ben Carson made videos and spoke at company events promoting Mannatech
Ben Carson Says he "didn’t have an involvement with" nutritional supplement company Mannatech. [SEP] Mannatech // products through its multi-level marketing structure in church congregations. Prior to founding Mannatech, Caster had founded and run Eagle Shield, an insulation manufacturer, and Electracat, a pest control device; both were categorized as a hoax by the Texas Attorney General's office. Mannatech was founded to sell dietary supplements and personal care products. Before developing its own products, the company sold Manapol, an aloe vera extract made by another company. Its most widely known product has been Ambrotose, a dietary supplement made from sugars derived from plants. From 1993 to 2009, Rafael Cruz, father of presidential candidate Ted Cruz, was a
Ben Carson Says he "didn’t have an involvement with" nutritional supplement company Mannatech. [SEP] Ben Carson // help him obtain a coveted endowed chair post at Johns Hopkins Medicine: "... three years ago I had an endowed chair bestowed upon me and uh, it requires $2.5 million to do an endowed chair and I'm proud to say that part of that $2.5 million came from Mannatech." In October 2015, Carson's campaign team said "there was no contribution from Mannatech to Johns Hopkins", and his statement had been "a legitimate mistake on his part. Confusion. He had been doing some fundraising for the hospital and some other chairs about that time, and he simply got things mixed up."
Ben Carson Says he "didn’t have an involvement with" nutritional supplement company Mannatech. [SEP] Mannatech // about 2008, when it started losing money due to exposure of its business practices through a class action lawsuit based on the false health claims, a critical "20/20" news special, and a civil suit filed by the Attorney General of Texas. Mannatech was founded by Samuel Caster in 1993, as Congress prepared to pass the Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act of 1994, which made feasible the profitable marketing of a wider spectrum of dietary supplements. The company has had a Christian orientation since its founding; the name was intended to evoke manna, and it recruited people to sell its
US regulators OK updated version of decades-old antibiotic. [SEP] Bad Pharma // a competing antibiotic that was known to be effective at a higher dose than was used during the trial. Goldacre writes that 11 children died, divided almost equally between the two groups. The families taking part in the trial were apparently not told that the competing antibiotic at the effective dose was available from Médecins Sans Frontières in the next-door building. Chapter three describes the concept of "regulatory capture," whereby a regulator – such as the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) in the UK, or the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in the United States – ends up
US regulators OK updated version of decades-old antibiotic. [SEP] Antibiotic use in livestock // requiring veterinarian supervision of their use and a prescription. In December 2013, the FDA announced the commencement of these steps to phase out the use of antibiotics for the purposes of promoting livestock growth. Numerous state senators and members of congress showed support for the Preservation of Antibiotics for Medical Treatment Act of 2013 and Preventing Antibiotic Resistance Act of 2015. These acts proposed amendments be made to the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act which would limit and preserve the use of antibiotics for medically necessary situations. Both of these bills died in Congress in 2015. In 2015, the
US regulators OK updated version of decades-old antibiotic. [SEP] Veterinary Feed Directive // class; these drugs will remain over the counter. The USDA states that Ionophores, Bacitracin, Bambermycins, and Tiamulin will remain over the counter. Injectables, boluses, or other dosages are not affected by this regulation. There are other drugs that can be found through the FDA that will not require a prescription to purchase. To ensure the judicious use of antibiotics in food producing animals, the new regulations went into effect on January 1, 2017 and many drugs changed from OTC to Rx status for medicated water and feed. Distributors and retailers that use these products are required to meet the new
US regulators OK updated version of decades-old antibiotic. [SEP] Antibiotic // is coordinated by the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), and the National Institutes of Health (NIH), as well as other US agencies. An NGO campaign group is "Keep Antibiotics Working". In France, an "Antibiotics are not automatic" government campaign started in 2002 and led to a marked reduction of unnecessary antibiotic prescriptions, especially in children. The emergence of antibiotic resistance has prompted restrictions on their use in the UK in 1970 (Swann report 1969), and the EU has banned the use of antibiotics as growth-promotional agents since 2003. Moreover, several organizations (including
US regulators OK updated version of decades-old antibiotic. [SEP] Antibiotic // John Innes Centre and universities in the UK, supported by BBSRC, resulted in the creation of spin-out companies, for example Novacta Biosystems, which has designed the type-b lantibiotic-based compound NVB302 (in phase 1) to treat "Clostridium difficile" infections. Possible improvements include clarification of clinical trial regulations by FDA. Furthermore, appropriate economic incentives could persuade pharmaceutical companies to invest in this endeavor. In the US, the Antibiotic Development to Advance Patient Treatment (ADAPT) Act was introduced with the aim of fast tracking the drug development of antibiotics to combat the growing threat of 'superbugs'. Under this Act, FDA can approve antibiotics
US regulators OK updated version of decades-old antibiotic. [SEP] Antibiotic // 1977. In March 2012, the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, ruling in an action brought by the Natural Resources Defense Council and others, ordered the FDA to revoke approvals for the use of antibiotics in livestock, which violated FDA regulations. Before the early 20th century, treatments for infections were based primarily on medicinal folklore. Mixtures with antimicrobial properties that were used in treatments of infections were described over 2000 years ago. Many ancient cultures, including the ancient Egyptians and ancient Greeks, used specially selected mold and plant materials and extracts to treat infections. The
US regulators OK updated version of decades-old antibiotic. [SEP] Antimicrobial resistance // standards by which the FDA approves antibiotics targeted at resistant organisms. On 12 December 2013, the Antibiotic Development to Advance Patient Treatment (ADAPT) Act of 2013 was introduced in the U.S. Congress. The ADAPT Act aims to fast-track the drug development in order to combat the growing public health threat of 'superbugs'. Under this Act, the FDA can approve antibiotics and antifungals needed for life-threatening infections based on data from smaller clinical trials. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) will reinforce the monitoring of the use of antibiotics that treat serious and life-threatening infections and the emerging resistance,
US regulators OK updated version of decades-old antibiotic. [SEP] Infectious Diseases Society of America // resistance and the lack of development of new antibiotics. According to IDSA, new antibiotic development has slowed to a standstill due to market failure and regulatory disincentives. Antibiotics aren't as profitable as other drugs (e.g., drugs to treat chronic conditions such as diabetes or asthma, which patients take for years). Also, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has long delayed publishing workable guidance describing how companies should design antibiotic clinical trials. Moreover, once a new antibiotic makes it to market, physicians hold it in reserve for only the worst cases rather than rushing to use it on all their
US regulators OK updated version of decades-old antibiotic. [SEP] Triclosan // amended tentative final monograph that would establish conditions under which OTC topical health-care antiseptic drug products are generally recognized as safe and effective and not misbranded. FDA is issuing this notice of proposed rulemaking on topical antimicrobial drug products after considering the public comments on that notice and other information in the administrative record for this rulemaking. FDA is also requesting data and information concerning the safety and effectiveness of topical antimicrobials for use as hand sanitizers or dips.” In the 1994 update to the rule, TCS was effectively removed from the drug category which made it available for use
US regulators OK updated version of decades-old antibiotic. [SEP] Antimicrobial resistance // issue up to $62 million from 2013 to 2019. Using authority created by the Pandemic and All Hazards Preparedness Act of 2006, the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority in the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services announced that it will spend between $40 million and $200 million in funding for R&D on new antibiotic drugs under development by GlaxoSmithKline. Antimicrobial susceptibility testing (AST) can help practitioners avoid prescribing unnecessary antibiotics in the style of precision medicine, and help them prescribe effective antibiotics, but with the traditional approach it could take 12 to 48 hours. Rapid testing, possible from
New Therapy for Enlarged Prostate May Bypass Unpleasant Side Effects [SEP] Surgery for benign prostatic hyperplasia // decades efforts to find newer surgical methods have resulted in newer approaches and different types of energies being used to treat the enlarged gland. However some of the newer methods for reducing the size of an enlarged prostate, have not been around long enough to fully establish their safety or side-effects. These include various methods to destroy or remove part of the excess tissue while trying to avoid damaging what remains. Transurethral electrovaporization of the prostate (TVP), laser TURP, visual laser ablation (VLAP), ethanol injection, and others are studied as alternatives. Newer techniques involving lasers in urology have emerged in
New Therapy for Enlarged Prostate May Bypass Unpleasant Side Effects [SEP] Prostate brachytherapy // for low to high risk localized cancer, with patients rapidly returning to normal activities. Although patients may experience problems (urinary incontinence or difficulty with urination) for the first 6 months or so after their implant, these usually settle down and lasting problems are rare, only occurring in about 1–2% of patients. Some patients (less than 10%) report an increase in bowel problems (diarrhea or urgency of the bowels), but again this usually settles down without further treatment. Erectile dysfunction (difficulty getting and/or keeping an erection; impotence) is another side-effect associated with all treatments for prostate cancer. Other treatments for prostate
New Therapy for Enlarged Prostate May Bypass Unpleasant Side Effects [SEP] Chronic bacterial prostatitis // addition of prostate massage to courses of antibiotics was previously proposed as being beneficial and prostate massage may mechanically break up the biofilm and enhance the drainage of the prostate gland. However, in more recent trials, this was not shown to improve outcome compared to antibiotics alone. Over time, the relapse rate is high, exceeding 50%. However, recent research indicates that combination therapies offer a better prognosis than antibiotics alone. A 2007 study showed that repeated combination pharmacological therapy with antibacterial agents (ciprofloxacin/azithromycin), alpha-blockers (alfuzosin) and Serenoa repens extracts may eradicate infection in 83.9% of patients with clinical remission extending
New Therapy for Enlarged Prostate May Bypass Unpleasant Side Effects [SEP] Management of prostate cancer // margins or locally advanced disease found on pathology, adjuvant radiation therapy may offer improved survival. Surgery may also be offered when a cancer is not responding to radiation therapy. However, because radiation therapy causes tissue changes, prostatectomy after radiation has higher risks of complications. Laparoscopic radical prostatectomy, LRP, is a new way to approach the prostate surgically with intent to cure. Contrasted with the open surgical form of prostate cancer surgery, laparoscopic radical prostatectomy requires a smaller incision. Relying on modern technology, such as miniaturization, fiber optics, and the like, laparoscopic radical prostatectomy is a minimally invasive prostate cancer treatment
New Therapy for Enlarged Prostate May Bypass Unpleasant Side Effects [SEP] Management of prostate cancer // due to radiation proctitis, as well as potential urinary incontinence and impotence. Symptoms tend to improve over time except erections which typically worsen as time progresses. A new method to reduce rectal radiation injury in prostate cancer patients involves the use of an absorbable spacer placed between the prostate and rectum. Such spacers are commercially available in some regions, and are undergoing clinical trials in others. By temporarily altering the anatomy these products have the potential to allow for improved cancer targeting while minimizing risk to neighboring healthy tissues. Prostate Rectum Spacers should be compatible with all prostate cancer radiotherapy
New Therapy for Enlarged Prostate May Bypass Unpleasant Side Effects [SEP] Management of prostate cancer // radiation therapy is generally given over several weeks, with daily visits to a radiation therapy center. New types of radiation therapy such as IMRT have fewer side effects than traditional treatment. Eleven centers in the United States are now using proton therapy for prostate cancer, which uses protons rather than X-rays to kill the cancer cells. Researchers are also studying types of stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT) to treat prostate cancer. Permanent implant brachytherapy is a popular treatment choice for patients with low to intermediate risk features, can be performed on an outpatient basis, and is associated with good 10-year outcomes
New Therapy for Enlarged Prostate May Bypass Unpleasant Side Effects [SEP] Sipuleucel-T // of August 2014, a clinical trial administering sipuleucel-T in conjunction with ipilimumab (Yervoy) was tracking subjects but no longer enrolling new subjects; the trial evaluates the clinical safety and anti-cancer effects (quantified in PSA, radiographic and T cell response) of the combination therapy in patients with advanced prostate cancer. Common side effects include: bladder pain; bloating or swelling of the face, arms, hands, lower legs, or feet; bloody or cloudy urine; body aches or pain; chest pain; chills; confusion; cough; diarrhea; difficult, burning, or painful urination; difficulty with breathing; difficulty with speaking up to inability to speak; double vision; sleeplessnes;
New Therapy for Enlarged Prostate May Bypass Unpleasant Side Effects [SEP] Ipilimumab // further trials. On June 19, 2009, the Mayo Clinic reported two prostate cancer patients involved in a phase II study using MDX-010 therapy who had been told initially that their condition was inoperable but had their tumors shrunk by the drug such that operation was possible and are now cancer-free as a result. This press report however was criticized as premature and somewhat inaccurate. The clinical trials were still at an early stage and were run alongside other treatments – which could have been the real explanation for the tumor shrinkage. It was too early to say whether ipilimumab made
New Therapy for Enlarged Prostate May Bypass Unpleasant Side Effects [SEP] Flutamide // analogue administration, also have significant side effects. Compared to these therapies, treatment with antiandrogens exhibits "fewer hot flashes, less of an effect on libido, less muscle wasting, fewer personality changes, and less bone loss." However, antiandrogen therapy alone is less effective than surgery. Nevertheless, given the advanced age of many with prostate cancer, as well as other features, many men may choose antiandrogen therapy alone for a better quality of life. Flutamide has been found to be similarly effective in the treatment of prostate cancer to bicalutamide, although indications of inferior efficacy, including greater compensatory increases in testosterone levels and
New Therapy for Enlarged Prostate May Bypass Unpleasant Side Effects [SEP] Finasteride // of acute urinary retention (−57% at 4 years) and the need for surgery (−54% at 4 years). If the drug is discontinued, any therapeutic benefits are reversed within about 6–8 months. A 2010 Cochrane review found a 25 or 26% reduction in the risk of developing prostate cancer with 5α-reductase inhibitor chemoprevention. A followup study of the Medicare claims of participants in a 10-year Prostate Cancer Prevention Trial suggests a significant reduction in prostate cancer risk is maintained even after discontinuation of treatment. However, 5α-reductase inhibitors have been found to increase the risk of developing certain rare but aggressive forms
Hate daylight saving time? You may have a point, researchers say. [SEP] Daylight saving time // one less hour of daylight at the start of each day, making the policy less practical during winter. While the times of sunrise and sunset change at roughly equal rates as the seasons change, proponents of Daylight Saving Time argue that most people prefer a greater increase in daylight hours after the typical "nine to five" workday. Supporters have also argued that DST decreases energy consumption by reducing the need for lighting and heating, but the actual effect on overall energy use is heavily disputed. The manipulation of time at higher latitudes (for example Iceland, Nunavut or Alaska) has little
Hate daylight saving time? You may have a point, researchers say. [SEP] Daylight saving time // benefits. A 2017 meta-analysis of 44 studies found that DST leads to electricity savings of only 0.34% during the days when DST applies. The meta-analysis furthermore found that "electricity savings are larger for countries farther away from the equator, while subtropical regions consume more electricity because of DST." This means that DST may conserve electricity in some countries, such as Canada and the United Kingdom, but be wasteful in other places, such as Mexico, the southern United States, and northern Africa. The savings in electricity may also be offset by extra use of other types of energy, such as heating
Hate daylight saving time? You may have a point, researchers say. [SEP] Daylight saving time // farmers, young children, who have difficulty getting enough sleep at night when the evenings are bright, and others whose hours are set by the sun. One reason why farmers oppose DST is that grain is best harvested after dew evaporates, so when field hands arrive and leave earlier in summer, their labor is less valuable. Dairy farmers are another group who complain of the change. Their cows are sensitive to the timing of milking, so delivering milk earlier disrupts their systems. Today some farmers' groups are in favor of DST. DST also hurts prime-time television broadcast ratings, drive-ins and other
Hate daylight saving time? You may have a point, researchers say. [SEP] Daylight saving time // have the obvious disadvantage of complexity. People must remember to change their clocks; this can be time-consuming, particularly for mechanical clocks that cannot be moved backward safely. People who work across time zone boundaries need to keep track of multiple DST rules, as not all locations observe DST or observe it the same way. The length of the calendar day becomes variable; it is no longer always 24 hours. Disruption to meetings, travel, broadcasts, billing systems, and records management is common, and can be expensive. During an autumn transition from 02:00 to 01:00, a clock reads times from 01:00:00 through
Hate daylight saving time? You may have a point, researchers say. [SEP] Daylight saving time in the United States // of uniform Daylight Saving Time throughout the US. In the U.S., daylight saving time starts on the second Sunday in March and ends on the first Sunday in November, with the time changes taking place at 2:00 a.m. local time. With a mnemonic word play referring to seasons, clocks "spring forward, fall back"—that is, in springtime the clocks are moved forward from 2:00 a.m. to 3:00 a.m. and in fall they are moved back from 2:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m. Daylight saving time lasts for a total of 34 weeks (238 days) every year, about 65% of the entire year.
Hate daylight saving time? You may have a point, researchers say. [SEP] Daylight saving time // Daylight saving time Daylight saving time (DST), also daylight savings time or daylight time (United States), also summer time (United Kingdom and others), is the practice of advancing clocks during summer months so that evening daylight lasts longer, while sacrificing normal sunrise times. Typically, regions that use daylight saving time adjust clocks forward one hour close to the start of spring and adjust them backward in the autumn to standard time. In effect, DST causes a lost hour of sleep in the spring and an extra hour of sleep in the fall. George Hudson proposed the idea of daylight saving
Hate daylight saving time? You may have a point, researchers say. [SEP] Daylight saving time // in 1895. The German Empire and Austria-Hungary organized the first nationwide implementation, starting on April 30, 1916. Many countries have used it at various times since then, particularly since the energy crisis of the 1970s. DST is generally not observed near the equator, where sunrise times do not vary enough to justify it. Some countries observe it only in some regions; for example, southern Brazil observes it while equatorial Brazil does not. Only a minority of the world's population uses DST, because Asia and Africa generally do not observe it. DST clock shifts sometimes complicate timekeeping and can disrupt travel,
Hate daylight saving time? You may have a point, researchers say. [SEP] Daylight saving time // it enlarges "the opportunities for the pursuit of health and happiness among the millions of people who live in this country" and pundits have dubbed it "Daylight Slaving Time". Historically, retailing, sports, and tourism interests have favored daylight saving, while agricultural and evening entertainment interests have opposed it, and its initial adoption had been prompted by energy crises and war. The fate of Willett's 1907 proposal illustrates several political issues involved. The proposal attracted many supporters, including Arthur Balfour, Churchill, David Lloyd George, Ramsay MacDonald, Edward VII (who used half-hour DST at Sandringham or "Sandringham time"), the managing director of
Hate daylight saving time? You may have a point, researchers say. [SEP] Daylight saving time // three hours during the southern summer, and four hours a few weeks per year. Since 1996, European Summer Time has been observed from the last Sunday in March to the last Sunday in October; previously the rules were not uniform across the European Union. Starting in 2007, most of the United States and Canada observe DST from the second Sunday in March to the first Sunday in November, almost two-thirds of the year. Moreover, the beginning and ending dates are roughly reversed between the northern and southern hemispheres because spring and autumn are displaced six months. For example, mainland Chile
Hate daylight saving time? You may have a point, researchers say. [SEP] Daylight saving time // saving time" (staying on summer hours all year with no time shifts) is sometimes advocated and is currently implemented in some jurisdictions such as Argentina, Belarus, Canada (e.g. Saskatchewan), Iceland, Turkey, Morocco, Namibia, and São Tomé and Príncipe. It could be a result of following the timezone of a neighbouring region, political will, or other causes. Advocates cite the same advantages as normal DST without the problems associated with the twice yearly time shifts. However, many remain unconvinced of the benefits, citing the same problems and the relatively late sunrises, particularly in winter, that year-round DST entails. Russia switched to
Novartis's new treatment for hives outperforms Xolair in trials. [SEP] Immunoglobulin E // active development. In the first approach, the anti-IgE antibody drug omalizumab (trade name Xolair) recognises IgE not bound to its receptors and is used to neutralise or mop-up existing IgE and prevent it from binding to the receptors on mast cells and basophils. Xolair has been approved in many countries for treating severe, persistent allergic asthma. It has also been approved in March 2014 in the European Union and the U. S. for treating chronic spontaneous urticaria, which cannot be adequately treated with H1-antihistamines. In the second approach, antibodies specific for a domain of 52 amino acid residues, referred to
Novartis's new treatment for hives outperforms Xolair in trials. [SEP] Hives // CU include cyclosporine, tacrolimus, sirolimus, and mycophenolate. Calcineurin inhibitors, such as cyclosporine and tacrolimus, inhibit cell responsiveness to mast cell products and inhibit T cell activity. They are preferred by some experts to treat severe symptoms. Sirolimus and mycophenolate have less evidence for their use in the treatment of chronic hives but reports have shown them to be efficacious. Immunosuppressants are generally reserved as the last line of therapy for severe cases due to their potential for serious adverse effects. Afamelanotide is being studied as a hives treatment. Opioid antagonists such as naltrexone have tentative evidence to support their use.
Novartis's new treatment for hives outperforms Xolair in trials. [SEP] Hives // using an older antihistamine, then to using systemic steroids and finally to using ciclosporin or omalizumab. H2-receptor antagonists are sometimes used in addition to H1-antagonists to treat urticaria, but there is limited evidence for their efficacy. Oral glucocorticoids are effective in controlling symptoms of chronic hives however they have an extensive list of adverse effects such as adrenal suppression, weight gain, osteoporosis, hyperglycemia, etc. Therefore, their use should be limited to a couple of weeks. In addition, one study found that systemic glucocorticoids combined with antihistamines did not hasten the time to symptom control compared with antihistamines alone. Leukotrienes are
Novartis's new treatment for hives outperforms Xolair in trials. [SEP] Omalizumab // not represent a sufficiently high increase in quality of life. However, on March 7, 2013, NICE issued “final draft guidance” about the allowance of omalizumab. It recommended the drug as an option for treating severe, persistent allergic asthma in adults, adolescents and children following additional analyses and submission of a patient access scheme (PAS) by Novartis, the manufacturer. In August 2013, a researcher at Leiden University Medical Center responsible for the TIGER trial was fired for unrelated research fraud. The TIGER trial was halted as a result. Omalizumab Omalizumab, sold under the trade name Xolair, is a medication originally designed
Novartis's new treatment for hives outperforms Xolair in trials. [SEP] Tanox // Genentech, omalizumab, with identical key binding characteristics as CGP51901, was chosen by a joint program steering committee for further development, because it had a better developed manufacturing process. Omalizumab, with the trade name Xolair, was approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration in 2003 for use in patients 12 years and older with moderate-to-severe allergic asthma. It was subsequently approved in the European Union and many other countries for patients 12 years and older with severe, persistent allergic asthma. Among the humanized antibody drugs Tanox developed by itself or with corporate partners: Other than the therapeutic antibodies, which target
Novartis's new treatment for hives outperforms Xolair in trials. [SEP] Cold urticaria // any documentation stating it will relieve hives induced by cold temperature. Cold hives can result in a potentially serious, or even fatal, systemic reaction (anaphylactic shock). People with cold hives may have to carry an injectable form of epinephrine (like Epi-pen or Twinject) for use in the event of a serious reaction. The best treatment for this allergy is avoiding exposure to cold temperature. Studies have found that Omalizumab (Xolair) may be an effective and safe treatment to cold urticaria for patient who do not sufficiently respond to standard treatments. Ebastine has been proposed as an approach to prevent acquired
Novartis's new treatment for hives outperforms Xolair in trials. [SEP] Solar urticaria // begins, the main goal is to build up the patient's tolerance to UVA radiation enough so that they can be outdoors without suffering an episode of solar urticaria. Therefore, treatments are regulated at three per week while constantly increasing the exposure to UVA radiation. Once the patient has reached an adequate level of desensitization, treatments are reduced to once or twice per week. Some patients and researchers have successfully treated solar urticaria with Omalizumab (trade name Xolair) which is commonly used to treat Idiopathic Urticaria. Omalizumab is a recombinant humanized monoclonal antibody against IgE. It acts by binding free IgE
Novartis's new treatment for hives outperforms Xolair in trials. [SEP] Novartis // EV06, is a first-in-class topical therapy for presbyopia. In December Novartis acquired Ziarco Group Limited, bolstering its presence in eczema treatments. In late October 2017, "Reuters" announced that Novartis would acquire Advanced Accelerator Applications for $3.9 billion, paying $41 per ordinary share and $82 per American depositary share representing a 47 percent premium. In March 2018, GlaxoSmithKline announced that it has reached an agreement with Novartis to acquire Novartis’ 36.5% stake in their Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture for $13 billion (£9.2 billion). In April of the same year, the business utilised some of the proceeds from the aforementioned GlaxoSmithKline deal
Novartis's new treatment for hives outperforms Xolair in trials. [SEP] Omalizumab // Omalizumab Omalizumab, sold under the trade name Xolair, is a medication originally designed to reduce sensitivity to allergens. It has been used to try to control severe allergic asthma, which does not respond to high doses of corticosteroids and less widely for chronic spontaneous urticaria. Omalizumab is a recombinant DNA-derived humanized IgG1k monoclonal antibody that specifically binds to free human immunoglobulin E (IgE) in the blood and interstitial fluid and to membrane-bound form of IgE (mIgE) on the surface of mIgE-expressing B lymphocytes. Unlike an ordinary anti-IgE antibody, it does not bind to IgE that is already bound by the
Novartis's new treatment for hives outperforms Xolair in trials. [SEP] Talizumab // Note that this clinical study was not done on patients who were known to develop deadly anaphylactic reactions to minute traces of peanut. Another anti-IgE antibody with identical antigen-binding characteristics is already on the market for allergic asthma, under the trade name Xolair (omalizumab). Omalizumab is an anti-IgE monoclonal antibody, which was placed in a development program under a tripartite partnership formed by Tanox, Novartis, and Genentech in 1996. The problem is that Xolair has not been approved for use in food allergies. One could obtain a prescription for Xolair without it being approved for use in allergies, but most
Although Georgia Gov. Brian Kemp "opened" the state, his mansion remained closed for tours during the COVID-19 pandemic. [SEP] Brian Kemp // Brian Kemp Brian Porter Kemp (born November 2, 1963) is an American politician and businessman. He is currently the Governor-elect of Georgia, who served as the 27th Secretary of State of Georgia from 2010 to 2018. Kemp was appointed by then-Governor Sonny Perdue to succeed Karen Handel when she stepped down to run in the 2010 Georgia gubernatorial election. He was later elected to the position in 2010 and reelected in 2014. He will assume the office of the Governor of Georgia on January 14, 2019. Kemp's oversight of elections and election data as Secretary of State has stirred controversy
Although Georgia Gov. Brian Kemp "opened" the state, his mansion remained closed for tours during the COVID-19 pandemic. [SEP] Georgia Governor's Mansion // current mansion. The Governor's Mansion is a three-level, 30-room, Greek Revival style home built in 1967. It stands on approximately 18 acres (73,000 m²) on historic West Paces Ferry Road in north-northwest Atlanta. It was designed by Georgia architect Thomas Bradbury and officially opened on January 1, 1968. In 1975, the mansion was heavily damaged in a tornado that struck west and then north Atlanta on the morning of March 24, occurring just a week after Governor Busbee moved in after his inauguration, and necessitating a renovation. It also led to the tornado being called the "governor's tornado", the worst
Although Georgia Gov. Brian Kemp "opened" the state, his mansion remained closed for tours during the COVID-19 pandemic. [SEP] Georgia Archives // Georgia Secretary of State, Brian Kemp, announced that the Georgia Archive would close to the public as of Nov. 1, 2012. Reason for the closure was cited as a 3% budget cut ($732,626). Public access to records would be limited to scheduled appointments, with details for said appointments not yet announced. SOS Kemp stated that he regretted the closure and would "fight during this legislative session to have this cut restored." The decision to close the archive to the public was met with backlash from the public, as well as organizations for archivists, librarians, genealogists, and other scholarly groups. A
Although Georgia Gov. Brian Kemp "opened" the state, his mansion remained closed for tours during the COVID-19 pandemic. [SEP] Georgia Governor's Mansion // acquired by a 70-member fine arts committee while the Mansion was being constructed. It is a permanent collection and belongs to the state of Georgia. It does not change from one administration to the next. Lester Maddox was the first governor to live there, followed by Jimmy Carter, George Busbee, Joe Frank Harris, Zell Miller, Roy Barnes, Sonny Perdue, and Nathan Deal who is the mansion's current resident. Lester and Virginia Maddox, the first residents of the mansion, set a precedent of opening the mansion to the public for regularly scheduled tours, and that tradition has continued through today. Tours
Although Georgia Gov. Brian Kemp "opened" the state, his mansion remained closed for tours during the COVID-19 pandemic. [SEP] Brian Kemp // upon Kemp to resign as Secretary of State while running for governor, thus ensuring that he would not be overseeing his own election. Kemp has declined to do so. Almost a week before election day, Kemp cancelled a scheduled debate so that he could instead attend a Trump rally in Georgia. Kemp blamed Abrams for the cancellation, saying that she was unwilling to reschedule it. The date of the debate had been agreed-upon since mid-September. Two days before the election, Kemp's office announced that it was investigating the Georgia Democratic Party for unspecified "possible cybercrimes"; the Georgia Democratic Party stated
Although Georgia Gov. Brian Kemp "opened" the state, his mansion remained closed for tours during the COVID-19 pandemic. [SEP] 2018 Georgia gubernatorial election // traveled to Georgia to campaign with him on July 20. Brian Kemp easily won the runoff by nearly 40 points despite the latest polls having him up by no more than 18. Cagle won only two counties, Monroe and Stephens. The Georgia Secretary of State has accused the Democratic Party of hacking into the state's voter database. Kemp retained his office as Georgia Secretary of State throughout the campaign, leading to allegations of a conflict of interest for overseeing an election in which Kemp himself is a candidate. During the campaign, he was called upon by former President Jimmy Carter,
Although Georgia Gov. Brian Kemp "opened" the state, his mansion remained closed for tours during the COVID-19 pandemic. [SEP] Washington Governor's Mansion // Jongeward, an interior designer from Seattle who donated her services to the project. The plan called for the use of furnishings of the period from 1780 to 1830. In 1997 Governor Gary Locke and his family were repeatedly harassed by a colony of bats that were cohabiting the mansion. After the governor chased a bat out of his bedroom, the first family were vaccinated against rabies as a precaution. Eventually, as the infestation grew worse, Locke, his wife, child, and cats relocated to a private residence while groundskeepers dealt with the problem. Four years later, in 2001, the mansion was
Although Georgia Gov. Brian Kemp "opened" the state, his mansion remained closed for tours during the COVID-19 pandemic. [SEP] Brian Kemp // Kemp was a home builder and developer before entering politics. He served as a Georgia State Senator from 2003 to 2007 after defeating the Democratic incumbent, Doug Haines. In 2006, Kemp ran for Agriculture Commissioner of Georgia. He came second in the primary, but he lost the runoff to Gary Black. Kemp initially declared intent to run for State Senate District 47 when incumbent Ralph Hudgens planned to run for Congress in Georgia's 10th congressional district. Hudgens withdrew and ran for reelection, changing Kemp's plans. In early 2010 Kemp was appointed to Georgia Secretary of State by then-Governor Sonny Perdue.
Although Georgia Gov. Brian Kemp "opened" the state, his mansion remained closed for tours during the COVID-19 pandemic. [SEP] Georgia Governor's Mansion // to hit the city until the 2008 storm that hit downtown. Later in 2008, the front door was damaged by fire during another renovation on the afternoon of September 11. The Atlanta Fire Department quickly extinguished the fire, and determined through thermal imaging that the fire had not spread inside the wall. Few people were present and nobody was injured, as it was after work hours, and the governor and his wife were away. The house covers 24,000 square feet (2,200 m²) and has a total of 30 Doric columns around the porches. These columns are made from California redwoods
Although Georgia Gov. Brian Kemp "opened" the state, his mansion remained closed for tours during the COVID-19 pandemic. [SEP] Brian Kemp // Kemp won the 2010 election for a full term as Georgia Secretary of State with 56.4% of the vote, to 39.4% for his Democratic opponent, Georganna Sinkfield. Four years later, Kemp was reelected. Kemp rejects the conclusion by the United States Intelligence Community that Russia interfered in the 2016 election. Amid Russian interference in the 2016 election, Kemp denounced efforts by the Obama administration to strengthen the security of election systems, including improving access to federal cybersecurity assistance. He denounced the Obama administration's efforts, saying they were an assault on states' rights. After narrowly winning in the 2018 gubernatorial election,
O’Rourke offers blue vision for red Texas during Nelson show. [SEP] Beto O'Rourke // "Only O’Rourke seems interested in making deals or finding middle ground. That is why the El Paso Democrat would make the best senator for Tarrant County’s future, and the future of Texas.". Singer and activist Willie Nelson announced his support for O'Rourke and held a rally for him on September 29 in Austin, Texas. In a statement, Nelson said, "My wife Annie and I have met and spoken with Beto and we share his concern for the direction things are headed. Beto embodies what is special about Texas, an energy and an integrity that is completely genuine.” At the end
O’Rourke offers blue vision for red Texas during Nelson show. [SEP] Pamela Nelson // of Art, Arkansas Art Center in Little Rock, Beaumont Museum of Art, Texas, National Museum of Women in the Arts in Washington DC, and the National Arts Club in New York City. She is represented by Craighead Green Gallery in Dallas, Texas. Pamela Nelson Pamela Nelson is an artist that works in painting, mixed media, and public art installations. Nelson grew up in Midland, Texas, and graduated from Southern Methodist University. Public artworks by Nelson include four Dallas Area Rapid Transit stations, a circular floor medallion at DFW Airport’s Terminal D Departure Level Concourse, and "Color Equations" at NorthPark Center.
O’Rourke offers blue vision for red Texas during Nelson show. [SEP] Pamela Nelson // Pamela Nelson Pamela Nelson is an artist that works in painting, mixed media, and public art installations. Nelson grew up in Midland, Texas, and graduated from Southern Methodist University. Public artworks by Nelson include four Dallas Area Rapid Transit stations, a circular floor medallion at DFW Airport’s Terminal D Departure Level Concourse, and "Color Equations" at NorthPark Center. Nelson recently installed a painting at the Bush Presidential Center in Dallas, Texas, titled "To Everything Turn. " "S"he is a close friend of Laura Bush. Nelson has exhibited in over 100 national venues, including the Dallas Museum of Art, Austin Museum
O’Rourke offers blue vision for red Texas during Nelson show. [SEP] Beto O'Rourke // of the rally, Nelson debuted his new election-inspired song "Vote 'Em Out". A few hours before the polls closed, Beyonce posted a picture of herself on social media wearing a "Beto for Senate" baseball cap with the caption, "I’m feeling grateful for everyone before me who fought so hard to give us all the right to have a voice." Other celebrity endorsements included Khalid, Aaron Jones, Eva Longoria, LeBron James, Jim Carrey, Travis Scott, Ellen DeGeneres, Lin-Manuel Miranda, and Kelly Rowland. A September 18, 2018, a Quinnipiac poll based on phone interviews put Cruz 9 percentage points ahead of O'Rourke
O’Rourke offers blue vision for red Texas during Nelson show. [SEP] Jet O'Rourke // shows to audiences at Canadian Music Week (Toronto), and SXSW Austin, Texas. The band received added support and radio airplay on KROQ-FM from renowned L.A. DJ and pal Rodney Bingenheimer famed for discovering musical acts such as David Bowie, The Ramones, and Oasis. In 2012 O'Rourke was awarded The Desmond Tan Scholarship in Architectural History for his research thesis analysing the impact of the Small Homes Service. Following his completion of a Master of Architecture at the University of South Australia in 2013, O'Rourke was the awarded the Hodgkison Graduate Prize for excellence in the final studio of the Masters
O’Rourke offers blue vision for red Texas during Nelson show. [SEP] Code Blue (bull) // seconds at Dallas Cowboys Stadium at the first-ever Iron Cowboy event, to win $260,000. The Iron Cowboy event is one where the bull riding competitors advance if they make it to the 8-second buzzer, while those who do not are out until there is only one rider left. At the end, the winner is determined by who rides for the most seconds. Just before Valdiron rode, Travis Briscoe was in first place with a ride of 3.6 seconds. In March 2010, Code Blue bucked off Vince Northrop in Albuquerque, New Mexico, for 46.75 points. In April 2010, Code Blue bucked
O’Rourke offers blue vision for red Texas during Nelson show. [SEP] Blue (Bill Mack song) // young men pass her by. Filmed in Austin, Texas, the music video was directed by Chris Rogers and produced by Hunter Hodge for Pecos Films. The video won two 1996 Billboard Music Awards for Best Country Music Video of the Year and Best New Artist Video of the Year. Country Music Television ranked "Blue" the number four video of the year and named Rimes the Female Rising Video Star of the Year in 1996. The "Houston Press" and the "Austin American-Statesman" described that the video alluded to a "Lolita" theme. The music video is included on the bonus DVD for
O’Rourke offers blue vision for red Texas during Nelson show. [SEP] Red Nelson (musician) // Red Nelson (musician) Nelson Wilborn (August 31, 1907 – March 1970), better known as Red Nelson or Dirty Red, was an American blues singer and occasional guitarist. His recording career lasted well over a decade. Two of his standout songs are "Crying Mother Blues" and "Streamline Train" (both 1936). His accompanists on record variously included Cripple Clarence Lofton, Blind John Davis, Black Bob, Kansas Joe McCoy, Papa Charlie McCoy, Big Bill Broonzy and Lonnie Johnson. His 1947 release, "Mother Fuyer", managed to escaped censorship. Nelson Wilborn was born in Sumner, Tallahatchie County, Mississippi. He relocated to Chicago, Illinois, in the
O’Rourke offers blue vision for red Texas during Nelson show. [SEP] Soldier Blue // and visual elements in his 2006 book "Spaghetti Westerns: Cowboys and Europeans from Karl May to Sergio Leone": "most critics succeeded in missing the really inventive sections of "Soldier Blue", which involve Nelson's use of elaborate zooms, and of untraditional compositions, both of which subtly explore the relationship between the 'initiates' and the virgin land which surrounds them." Recalling the film, star Candice Bergen commented that it was "a movie whose heart, if nothing else, was in the right place." Soldier Blue Soldier Blue is a 1970 American Revisionist Western film directed by Ralph Nelson and starring Candice Bergen, Peter
O’Rourke offers blue vision for red Texas during Nelson show. [SEP] Willie Nelson // two logos with the pink equal sign, symbol of the LBGT movement. The first one, featured the sign represented with two long braids; while the second one, featured the sign represented with two marijuana cigarettes. The use of the logos became viral instantly in social networking sites such as Twitter and Facebook. In June 2018, Nelson deplored the Trump administration family separation policy. During his Fourth of July Picnic, he performed a song with Beto O'Rourke, the Democratic candidate for the Senate election in Texas. Nelson endorsed O'Rourke, and received negative reactions from the conservative part of his followers. On
Cannabis Derivative Cannabidiol Reduces Seizures in Severe Epilepsy Disorder [SEP] Charlotte's web (cannabis) // phase 3 clinical trials completed in 2017 demonstrated the efficacy of cannabidiol in reducing convulsive seizure activity at doses of 10–20 mg/kg per day in children with treatment-resistant Dravet Syndrome and treatment-resistant Lennox-Gastaut Syndrome. Due to the anecdotal nature of the health claims being made medical bodies have published statements of concern. A position statement by the American Epilepsy Society states: The recent anecdotal reports of positive effects of the marijuana derivative cannabidiol for some individuals with treatment-resistant epilepsy give reason for hope. However, we must remember that these are only anecdotal reports, and robust scientific evidence for the use
Cannabis Derivative Cannabidiol Reduces Seizures in Severe Epilepsy Disorder [SEP] Charlotte's web (cannabis) // no comparison with placebo was possible due to the small number of people in the trials. The drugs were well tolerated. A third review found that no reliable conclusions about the effect of cannabis on epilepsy could be drawn due to the poor quality of available data, but further research may be warranted because of the good safety profile observed in small clinical trials. A 2017 study in children with drug-resistant Dravet syndrome, using a comparatively high dose of 20 mg/kg, found cannabidiol reduced convulsive seizures (but not non-convulsive seizures), and resulted in more side effects compared with placebo. Three
Cannabis Derivative Cannabidiol Reduces Seizures in Severe Epilepsy Disorder [SEP] Medical cannabis research // by GW Pharmaceuticals for experimental treatment of epilepsy, underwent stage-two trials in the US in 2014. A 2017 study found that cannabidiol decreased the rate of seizures in those with Dravet syndrome but increased the rate of sleepiness and trouble with the liver. In 2009, the American Glaucoma Society noted that while cannabis can help lower intraocular pressure, it recommended against its use because of "its side effects and short duration of action, coupled with a lack of evidence that its use alters the course of glaucoma". As of 2008 relatively little research had been done concerning therapeutic effects of
Cannabis Derivative Cannabidiol Reduces Seizures in Severe Epilepsy Disorder [SEP] Medical cannabis research // and epilepsy, "current data from studies in humans are extremely limited, and no conclusions can be drawn". The mechanisms by which cannabis may be effective in the treatment of epilepsy remain unclear. Some reasons for the lack of clinical research have been the introduction of new synthetic and more stable pharmaceutical anticonvulsants, the recognition of important adverse side effects, and legal restrictions to the use of cannabis-derived medicines – although in December 2015, the DEA (United States Drug Enforcement Administration) has eased some of the regulatory requirements for conducting FDA-approved clinical trials on cannabidiol (CBD). Epidiolex, a cannabis-based product developed
Cannabis Derivative Cannabidiol Reduces Seizures in Severe Epilepsy Disorder [SEP] Medical cannabis // efficacy is not clear in treating neurological problems, including multiple sclerosis (MS), epilepsy, and movement problems. The combination of Δ9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and cannabidiol (CBD) extracts give subjective relief of spasticity, though objective post-treatment assessments do not reveal significant changes. Evidence also suggests that oral cannabis extract is effective for reducing patient-centered measures of spasticity. A trial of cannabis is deemed to be a reasonable option if other treatments have not been effective. Its use for MS is approved in ten countries. A 2012 review found no problems with tolerance, abuse, or addiction. There is tentative evidence that medical cannabis is
Cannabis Derivative Cannabidiol Reduces Seizures in Severe Epilepsy Disorder [SEP] Charlotte's web (cannabis) // of marijuana is lacking... at present, the epilepsy community does not know if marijuana is a safe and effective treatment, nor do they know the long-term effects that marijuana will have on learning, memory and behavior, especially in infants and young children. Cannabis-derived products are not mentioned in the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence epilepsy treatment guidelines. Charlotte's Web was developed in 2011 by the Stanley brothers (Joel, Jesse, Jon, Jordan, Jared and Josh) through crossbreeding a strain of marijuana with industrial hemp. This process created a variety with less tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and more cannabidiol (CBD) than typical
Cannabis Derivative Cannabidiol Reduces Seizures in Severe Epilepsy Disorder [SEP] Charlotte's web (cannabis) // use for intractable epilepsy with the consent of a neurologist. Also on March 21, 2014, an Arizona court found "that Arizona's medical marijuana law allows consumption of the plant in extract form." On March 20, 2014, the Florida House of Representatives Budget Committee passed the "so-called Charlotte's Web measure (CS/HB 843)" designed to limit prosecutors' ability to prosecute those in possession of low THC/high CBD marijuana ("0.5 percent or less of tetrahydrocannabinol and more than 15 percent of cannabidiol") used for treating seizures. The law took effect July 1, 2014. Since then, Florida legislators have passed a bill with bipartisan
Cannabis Derivative Cannabidiol Reduces Seizures in Severe Epilepsy Disorder [SEP] TRPV2 // and lengthening rate which ultimately compromise cardiac contractile function. The cannabis constituent, cannabidiol (CBD), is a compound that acts in the release of neurotransmitters in the brain (part of the class of chemicals called cannabinoids) and has been researched for its positive effects in the treatment of epilepsy. CBD is able to bind to TRPV2 (as only plant-derived cannabinoids are TRPV2 agonists), which results in a reduction of epileptic activity and, consequently, a decrease in mortality. Recent research demonstrated that, in vitro, CBD decreases epileptiform local field potential burst amplitude and burst duration and increases burst frequency. Testing CBD in
Cannabis Derivative Cannabidiol Reduces Seizures in Severe Epilepsy Disorder [SEP] Cannabidiol // epilepsy disorders. The U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration has assigned Epidiolex a Schedule V classification while non-Epidiolex CBD remains a Schedule I drug prohibited for any use. CBD is not scheduled under any United Nations drug control treaties, and in 2018 the World Health Organization recommended that it remain unscheduled. Medical reviews published in 2017 and 2018 incorporating numerous clinical trials concluded that cannabidiol is an effective treatment for certain types of childhood epilepsy. An orally administered cannabidiol solution (brand name Epidiolex) was approved by the US Food and Drug Administration in June 2018 as a treatment for two rare forms
Cannabis Derivative Cannabidiol Reduces Seizures in Severe Epilepsy Disorder [SEP] Cannabidiol // of childhood epilepsy, Lennox-Gastaut syndrome and Dravet syndrome. Preliminary research on other possible therapeutic uses for cannabidiol include several neurological disorders, but the findings have not been confirmed by sufficient high-quality clinical research to establish such uses in clinical practice. Preliminary research indicates that cannabidiol may reduce adverse effects of THC, particularly those causing intoxication and sedation, but only at high doses. Safety studies of cannabidiol showed it is well-tolerated, but may cause tiredness, diarrhea, or changes in appetite as common adverse effects. Epidiolex documentation lists sleepiness, insomnia and poor quality sleep, decreased appetite, diarrhea, and fatigue. Laboratory evidence indicated
Test may help predict colon cancer recurrence risk [SEP] Colorectal cancer // rectal cancer if the rectum remains. Most deaths due to colon cancer are associated with metastatic disease. A gene that appears to contribute to the potential for metastatic disease, metastasis associated in colon cancer 1 ("MACC1"), has been isolated. It is a transcriptional factor that influences the expression of hepatocyte growth factor. This gene is associated with the proliferation, invasion and scattering of colon cancer cells in cell culture, and tumor growth and metastasis in mice. MACC1 may be a potential target for cancer intervention, but this possibility needs to be confirmed with clinical studies. Epigenetic factors, such as abnormal
Test may help predict colon cancer recurrence risk [SEP] Fecal occult blood // colon cancer screening, using only one sample of feces collected by a doctor performing a digital rectal examination is discouraged. The use of the M2-PK Test is encouraged over gFOBT for routine screening as it may pick up tumors whether or not they are that are bleeding. It is able to pick up 80 percent of colorectal cancer and 44 percent for adenoma > 1 centimeter, while gFOBT picks up 13 to 50 percent of colorectal cancers. An extensive literature has examined the clinical value of FOBT in iron deficiency anemia. Conditions such as ulcerative colitis or certain types of
Test may help predict colon cancer recurrence risk [SEP] Colorectal cancer // thus prevent them from turning into cancer. Screening has the potential to reduce colorectal cancer deaths by 60%. The three main screening tests are colonoscopy, fecal occult blood testing, and flexible sigmoidoscopy. Of the three, only sigmoidoscopy cannot screen the right side of the colon where 42% of cancers are found. Flexible sigmoidoscopy, however, has the best evidence for decreasing the risk of death from any cause. Fecal occult blood testing (FOBT) of the stool is typically recommended every two years and can be either guaiac-based or immunochemical. If abnormal FOBT results are found, participants are typically referred for a
Test may help predict colon cancer recurrence risk [SEP] Circulating tumor DNA // been previously done in individuals with stage II colon cancer; in this study, researchers were able to detect ctDNA in individuals who showed no sign of clinical malignancy by a CT scan, suggesting that ctDNA detection has greater sensitivity to assess MRD. However, the authors acknowledge that ctDNA analysis is not without limitations; plasma samples collected post-operatively were only able to predict recurrence at 36 months in 48% of cases. The question of whether measurement of the amount or qualities of ctDNA could be used to determine outcomes in people with cancer has been a subject of study. As of
Test may help predict colon cancer recurrence risk [SEP] Colonoscopy // blood test (gFOBT), fecal immunochemical test (FIT), and multitarget stool DNA screening test (Cologuard). Subsequent rescreenings are then scheduled based on the initial results found, with a five- or ten-year recall being common for colonoscopies that produce normal results. People with a family history of colon cancer are often first screened during their teenage years. Among people who have had an initial colonoscopy that found no polyps, the risk of developing colorectal cancer within five years is extremely low. Therefore, there is no need for those people to have another colonoscopy sooner than five years after the first screening. Medical
Test may help predict colon cancer recurrence risk [SEP] Virtual karyotype // to uncover additional lesions with potentially important clinical implications. Identification of biomarkers in colorectal cancer is particularly important for patients with stage II disease, where less than 20% have tumor recurrence. 18q LOH is an established biomarker associated with high risk of tumor recurrence in stage II colon cancer. Figure 7 shows a SNP array karyotype of a colorectal carcinoma (whole genome view). Colorectal cancers are classified into specific tumor phenotypes based on molecular profiles which can be integrated with the results of other ancillary tests, such as microsatellite instability testing, IHC, and KRAS mutation status: Malignant rhabdoid tumors are
Test may help predict colon cancer recurrence risk [SEP] Colorectal cancer // colonoscopy can. Stool DNA screening test looks for biomarkers associated with colorectal cancer and precancerous lesions, including altered DNA and blood hemoglobin. A positive result should be followed by colonoscopy. FIT-DNA has more false positives than FIT and thus results in more adverse effects. Further study is required as of 2016 to determine if a three year screening interval is correct. In the United States, screening is typically recommended between ages 50 to 75 years. The American Cancer Society recommends starting at the age of 45. For those between 76 and 85 years old, the decision to screen should be
Test may help predict colon cancer recurrence risk [SEP] Cancer prevention // with the fecal occult blood test (FOBT). Variants of this test include guaiac-based FOBT (gFOBT), the fecal immunochemical test (FIT), and stool DNA (sDNA) testing. Further testing includes flexible sigmoidoscopy (FS), total colonoscopy (TC), or computed tomography (CT) scans if a TC is non-ideal. A recommended age at which to begin screening is 50 years. However, this is highly dependent on medical history and exposure to CRC risk factors. Effective screening has been shown to reduce CRC incidence by 33% and CRC morality by 43%. The estimated number of new breast cancer cases in the US in 2018 is predicted
Test may help predict colon cancer recurrence risk [SEP] Stool guaiac test // cancer, GI bleeds, diverticulae, hemorrhoids, anal fissures, colon polyps, ulcerative colitis, Crohn's disease, celiac disease, GERD, esophagitis, peptic ulcers, gastritis, inflammatory bowel disease, vascular ectasias, portal hypertensive gastropathy, aortoenteric fistulas, hemobilia, endometriosis, and trauma. The stool guaiac test was originally the principal colon cancer screening technology available, but modern tests which look for globin or DNA are now also available. Several recent colon cancer screening guidelines have recommended replacing any older low-sensitivity, guaiac-based fecal occult blood testing (gFOBT) with either newer high-sensitivity guaiac-based fecal occult blood testing (gFOBT) or fecal immunochemical testing (FIT), which tests for globin rather than the
Test may help predict colon cancer recurrence risk [SEP] Fecal occult blood // The American College of Gastroenterology has recommended the abandoning of gFOBT testing as a colorectal cancer screening tool, in favor of the fecal immunochemical test. Though the FIT test is preferred, even the guaiac FOB testing of average risk populations may have been sufficient to reduce the mortality associated with colon cancer by about 25%. With this lower efficacy, it was not always cost effective to screen a large population with gFOBT. If colon cancer is suspected in an individual (such as in someone with an unexplained anemia) fecal occult blood tests may not be clinically helpful. If a doctor
Indonesian doctor's death exposes heartbreaking risks of coronavirus battle. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // St Thomas's Hospital. As a result of Dr Zaki's post on Pro-MED, the novel coronavirus was quickly identified. He was treated for respiratory disease and, like the first patient in Saudi Arabia, died of renal failure in October 2012. Another patient who had been in Guys and St Thomas hospital in the UK since September 2012 after visiting the Middle East died on 28 June 2013. A spokesperson for the hospital stated that "Guys and St Thomas can confirm that the patient with severe respiratory illness due to novel coronavirus (MERS-COV) sadly died on Friday 28 June, after his condition
Indonesian doctor's death exposes heartbreaking risks of coronavirus battle. [SEP] Hadi Soesastro // York City. and Australian National University's Research School of Pacific and Asian Studies (RSPAS) and maintained close links with the activities of the Indonesia project in the RSPAS. Soesastro was diagnosed with prostate cancer in 2006. In April 2010 he was placed in intensive care at the Pondok Indah Hospital after suffering a brain hemorrhage. He died at the South Jakarta hospital on May 4, 2010, at the age of 65. Soesastro was survived by his wife, Janti Solihin, and their sons, Auguste and Albert. Hadi Soesastro Hadi Soesastro (Born Tan Yueh Ming April 30, 1945 – May 4, 2010,
Indonesian doctor's death exposes heartbreaking risks of coronavirus battle. [SEP] Middle East respiratory syndrome // pneumonia and acute renal failure. After routine diagnostics failed to identify the causative agent, Zaki contacted Ron Fouchier, a leading virologist at the Erasmus Medical Center (EMC) in Rotterdam, the Netherlands, for advice. Fouchier sequenced the virus from a sample sent by Zaki. Fouchier used a broad-spectrum "pan-coronavirus" real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) method to test for distinguishing features of a number of known coronaviruses (such as OC43, 229R, NL63, and SARS-CoV), as well as for RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp), a gene conserved in all coronaviruses known to infect humans. While the screens for known coronaviruses were all negative, the
Indonesian doctor's death exposes heartbreaking risks of coronavirus battle. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // government, in November 2013, reported a woman in Spain, who had recently traveled to Saudi Arabia for the Islamic pilgrimage, contracted the disease. On 14 April 2014, one Filipino paramedic died in the United Arab Emirates, with six other reported to be infected with the virus. On 17 April, the UAE Ministry of Health reported another fatality and four additional cases, including the Filipino medical worker who travelled to the Philippines on 16 April. On 21 April 2014, the Health Ministry of UAE reported an additional 9 cases. In April 2012, six hospital workers were diagnosed with acute respiratory failure
Indonesian doctor's death exposes heartbreaking risks of coronavirus battle. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // was referred to the RITM last 4 July 2015. Another person, who was also showing symptoms, was placed in isolation after he had close contact with the said patient; eight others, who also had contacted with the patient, were identified. DOH is in the process of tracking all the people whom the patient had contacted with. The first known case of a previously unknown coronavirus was identified in a 60-year-old Saudi Arabian man with acute pneumonia, who died of renal failure in June 2012. As of 12 May 2013, two more deaths have been reported in the al-Ahsa region of
Indonesian doctor's death exposes heartbreaking risks of coronavirus battle. [SEP] Coronavirus // 2013, a case of contamination from human to human in France was confirmed by the French Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. In addition, cases of person-to-person transmission have been reported by the Ministry of Health in Tunisia. Two confirmed cases seem to have caught the disease from their late father, who became ill after a visit to Qatar and Saudi Arabia. By Oct. 30 2013, there were 124 cases and 52 deaths in Saudi Arabia. After the Dutch Erasmus Medical Centre sequenced the virus, the virus was given a new name, Human Corona Virus-Erasmus Medical Centre (HCoV-EMC). The final
Indonesian doctor's death exposes heartbreaking risks of coronavirus battle. [SEP] Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus // risky. Not studying it is riskier." Dr. Zaki was fired from his job at the hospital as a result of bypassing the Saudi ministry of health in his announcement and sharing his sample and findings. At their annual meeting of the World Health Assembly in May 2013, WHO chief Margaret Chan declared that intellectual property, or patents on strains of new virus, should not impede nations from protecting their citizens by limiting scientific investigations. Deputy Health Minister Ziad Memish raised concerns that scientists who held the patent for the MERS-CoV virus would not allow other scientists to use patented material
Indonesian doctor's death exposes heartbreaking risks of coronavirus battle. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // Saudi Arabia. In the latest cluster of infections, 15 cases had been confirmed, and nine of those patients had died. Ten of the 22 people who died and 22 of 44 cases reported were in Saudi Arabia. An unconfirmed case in another Saudi citizen, for which no clinical information was available, was also reported around this time. On 22 September 2012, the Saudi Ministry of Health (MOH) announced that the two cases involving Saudi citizens, caused by what they termed a "rare pattern of coronavirus," had both proven fatal. Two of the Saudi Arabia cases were from the same family
Indonesian doctor's death exposes heartbreaking risks of coronavirus battle. [SEP] Middle East respiratory syndrome // RdRp screen was positive. On 15 September 2012, Dr. Zaki's findings were posted on ProMED-mail, the Program for Monitoring Emerging Diseases, a public health on-line forum. The United Kingdom's Health Protection Agency (HPA) confirmed the diagnosis of severe respiratory illness associated with a new type of coronavirus in a second patient, a 49-year-old Qatari man who had recently been flown into the UK. He died from an acute, serious respiratory illness in a London hospital. In September 2012, the UK HPA named it the London1 novel CoV/2012 and produced the virus' preliminary phylogenetic tree, the genetic sequence of the virus
Indonesian doctor's death exposes heartbreaking risks of coronavirus battle. [SEP] World Health Assembly // citizens by limiting scientific investigations. Following the 2012 MERS outbreak in Saudi Arabia, Deputy Health Minister Ziad Memish raised concerns that scientists who applied for a patent would not allow the MERS-coronavirus to be used for investigations by other scientists and were therefore delaying the development of diagnostic tests. Ten of the 22 people who died and 22 of 44 cases reported were in Saudi Arabia. Saudi Arabia–based microbiologist Ali Mohamed Zaki reported the first known case, a 60-year-old Saudi man who got sick in June, 2012 on ProMed-mail, a public health on-line forum then published more details including the
A three-cents-per-ounce soda tax in Philadelphia "would result in the loss of 2,000 family-sustaining Teamster Union jobs and countless other jobs in the beverage industry. [SEP] Sugary drink tax // drink has seen a decline in soda consumption by more than 20 percent. Philadelphia's tax of 1.5 cents/oz took effect on January 1, 2017. The Measure D soda tax was approved by 76% of Berkeley voters on 4 November 2014, and took effect on 1 January 2015 as the first such tax in the United States. The measure imposes a tax of one cent per ounce on the distributors of specified sugar-sweetened beverages such as soda, sports drinks, energy drinks, and sweetened ice teas but excluding milk-based beverages, meal replacement drink, diet sodas, fruit juice, and alcohol. The revenue generated
A three-cents-per-ounce soda tax in Philadelphia "would result in the loss of 2,000 family-sustaining Teamster Union jobs and countless other jobs in the beverage industry. [SEP] Jim Kenney // The trade organization, funded by soda companies and distributors, ran local television, radio, and newspaper advertisements against the idea, claiming that the tax would disproportionately hurt the poor. The American Heart Association, on the other hand, has supported Kenney's efforts. On June 16, 2016, the soda tax passed with a 13–4 vote from City Council. The initial proposal of three cents per ounce was lowered to 1.5 cents per ounce. The tax was implemented at the start of the 2017 calendar year. After the tax took effect, Kenney said retailors' price gouging blamed on the tax and charging the tax
A three-cents-per-ounce soda tax in Philadelphia "would result in the loss of 2,000 family-sustaining Teamster Union jobs and countless other jobs in the beverage industry. [SEP] Sugary drink tax // poor. His opponent, Hillary Clinton, on the other hand, said that she was "very supportive" of the idea. The American Beverage Association (ABA), funded by soda companies and distributors, ran local television, radio, and newspaper advertisements against the idea, claiming that the tax would disproportionately hurt the poor. The ABA spent $10.6 million in 2016 in its effort against the tax. The American Medical Association, American Heart Association, and other medical and public health groups support the tax. The Philadelphia City Council approved a 1.5-cents-per-ounce tax on 16 June 2016. As part of the compromise legislation that passed, the tax
A three-cents-per-ounce soda tax in Philadelphia "would result in the loss of 2,000 family-sustaining Teamster Union jobs and countless other jobs in the beverage industry. [SEP] Sugary drink tax // is also imposed on artificially sweetened beverages, such as diet soda. The law became effective on 1 January 2017. It was reported after two months of the tax that Philadelphia supermarkets and beverage distributors are planning layoffs because sugary beverage sales are down between 30 and 50 percent. After the tax took effect, Kenney said it was "wrong" and "misleading" for businesses to pass the tax on to their customers in the form of higher soda prices. In February 2017, soda manufacturers and retailers announced sales declines of 30-50% in Philadelphia and announced job cuts and layoffs. Kenny characterized the
A three-cents-per-ounce soda tax in Philadelphia "would result in the loss of 2,000 family-sustaining Teamster Union jobs and countless other jobs in the beverage industry. [SEP] Sugary drink tax // a sugary drink tax alone. In March 2017, Pepsi laid off between 80 and 100 employees at two distribution plants in Philadelphia and one plant in nearby Wilmington, Delaware. The company blamed the layoffs on the tax, an assertion rejected by the city government. In September 2016, the American Beverage Association, Philadelphia business owners, and other plaintiffs filed a lawsuit against the soda tax, alleging that the tax violated the "Tax Uniformity Clause" of the state constitution. The legal challenge was dismissed by the Court of Common Pleas in December 2016, and in June 2017 the Commonwealth Court of Pennsylvania
A three-cents-per-ounce soda tax in Philadelphia "would result in the loss of 2,000 family-sustaining Teamster Union jobs and countless other jobs in the beverage industry. [SEP] Sugary drink tax // (in a 5-2 decision) affirmed that ruling. The ABA is appealing the decision to the Pennsylvania Supreme Court. A one-cent-per-ounce soda tax (Prop V) passed with over 61% of the vote on 8 November 2016 and applies to distributors of sugary beverages on 1 January 2018. Exemptions for the tax include infant formulas, milk products, supplements, drinks used for medical reasons, and 100% fruit and vegetable juices. The soda industry spent almost $20 million in its unsuccessful push to defeat the soda tax initiative, a record-breaking amount for a San Francisco ballot initiative. In 2014, the first referendum on a
A three-cents-per-ounce soda tax in Philadelphia "would result in the loss of 2,000 family-sustaining Teamster Union jobs and countless other jobs in the beverage industry. [SEP] Jim Kenney // on items not subject to it was "wrong" and "misleading". In February 2017, soda manufacturers and retailers announced sales declines of 30–50% in Philadelphia and announced layoffs for March. The city called the predicted layoffs "fear-mongering". While the tax was projected to raise about $2.7 million in its first month, far below the estimate of $7.6 million per month, the city expected that figure to rise. In March 2017, Pepsi announced plans to lay off between 80 and 100 employees, and blamed this on the tax. The city stated the program had created 251 jobs, mostly full-time pre-K teaching positions
A three-cents-per-ounce soda tax in Philadelphia "would result in the loss of 2,000 family-sustaining Teamster Union jobs and countless other jobs in the beverage industry. [SEP] Jim Kenney // and said the soda industry was "holding hostage the jobs of hard-working people in their battle to overturn the tax. Pepsi reported nearly $35 billion in gross income and $6 billion in profit last year... The idea that they can afford to do that but 'must lay off workers' should make every Philadelphian very skeptical of whether these layoffs are actually due to the tax." The layoffs would occur at plants in Philadelphia and Wilmington which are run as independent businesses. In October 2017, Mayor Kenney announce that the city is taking back control of its public schools after sixteen
A three-cents-per-ounce soda tax in Philadelphia "would result in the loss of 2,000 family-sustaining Teamster Union jobs and countless other jobs in the beverage industry. [SEP] Sugary drink tax // layoffs as evidence of greed among manufacturers. In the first four months of the soda tax $25.6 million was collected, which is lower than predicted. The revenue is intended to pay for a pre-K program (49% of tax revenue), government employee benefits and city programs (20%), and rebuilding city parks and recreation centers. A recent study from 2017 found that Philadelphia's tax has decreased sugary beverage consumption in impoverished youth by 1.3 drinks/week. Langellier et al. also found that when paired with the pre-K program, attendance increases significantly, a finding that is likely to have longer term positive effects than
A three-cents-per-ounce soda tax in Philadelphia "would result in the loss of 2,000 family-sustaining Teamster Union jobs and countless other jobs in the beverage industry. [SEP] Sugary drink tax // found that New Yorkers opposed a state tax on soda of one penny per ounce by a 35-point margin, but opposition dropped to a margin of one point when respondents were told the money would go towards health care. A Thompson Reuters poll released in the same month found that 51 percent of Americans opposed a soda tax, while 33 percent supported one. Fighting the creation of soft drink taxes, the American Beverage Association, the largest U.S. trade organization for soft drink bottlers, has spent considerable money lobbying Congress. The Association's annual lobbying spending rose from about $391,000 to more
Thailand closes more public facilities as coronavirus cases top 1,100. [SEP] Coronavirus // 2013, a case of contamination from human to human in France was confirmed by the French Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. In addition, cases of person-to-person transmission have been reported by the Ministry of Health in Tunisia. Two confirmed cases seem to have caught the disease from their late father, who became ill after a visit to Qatar and Saudi Arabia. By Oct. 30 2013, there were 124 cases and 52 deaths in Saudi Arabia. After the Dutch Erasmus Medical Centre sequenced the virus, the virus was given a new name, Human Corona Virus-Erasmus Medical Centre (HCoV-EMC). The final
Thailand closes more public facilities as coronavirus cases top 1,100. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // in Saudi Arabia to 1,115 cases and 480 fatalities as of 18 August 2015. Since May, most of the cases have occurred at the King Abdulaziz Medical City, a large national guard hospital. Due to fears of the MERS virus, attendance in the hajj in 2013 was lower than the previous year. The Saudi government asked "elderly and chronically ill Muslims to avoid the hajj this year" and restricted the number of people allowed "to perform the pilgrimage". Saudi Health Minister Abdullah Al-Rabia said "that authorities had so far detected no cases among the pilgrims" of MERS. However, the Spanish
Thailand closes more public facilities as coronavirus cases top 1,100. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // United Kingdom, France, Germany, and the United Arab Emirates. According to a European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) publication, on April 2014, Tunisia had a total of 3 cases with 1 fatality. In May 2015, the first case in South Korea was confirmed in a man who had visited several Middle Eastern countries. As of 16 June 2015, a total of 150 cases has been infected, including 18 deaths, according to the World Health Organization (WHO). As of 29 June 2015, 32 people in South Korea have died from this outbreak, with 182 confirmed cases of infection. There
Thailand closes more public facilities as coronavirus cases top 1,100. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // Saudi Arabia. In the latest cluster of infections, 15 cases had been confirmed, and nine of those patients had died. Ten of the 22 people who died and 22 of 44 cases reported were in Saudi Arabia. An unconfirmed case in another Saudi citizen, for which no clinical information was available, was also reported around this time. On 22 September 2012, the Saudi Ministry of Health (MOH) announced that the two cases involving Saudi citizens, caused by what they termed a "rare pattern of coronavirus," had both proven fatal. Two of the Saudi Arabia cases were from the same family
Thailand closes more public facilities as coronavirus cases top 1,100. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // and from that family at least one additional person presented similar symptoms but tested negative for the novel coronavirus. On 21 February 2013, WHO stated that there had been 13 laboratory-confirmed cases, 6 cases (4 fatal) from Saudi Arabia, 2 cases (both fatal) from Jordan, 2 cases from Qatar, and 3 from the UK. In March 2013, the Saudi Arabia Ministry of Health reported the death of a 39-year-old man, the 15th case and 9th death reported to WHO. On 2 May 2013, the Saudi Ministry of Health announced five people died and two other people were in critical condition
Thailand closes more public facilities as coronavirus cases top 1,100. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // said virus. The Evangelista Medical Hospital in San Pedro, Laguna, the facility where the patient was first admitted, was temporarily closed by DOH for fourteen days. On 17 February 2015, all those who had exposure or had contact with the said nurse were tested negative of the said virus. On 6 March 2015, The Department of Foreign Affairs confirmed three Filipino female healthcare workers in Saudi Arabia who were infected with MERS-CoV. On 6 July 2015, DOH confirmed the second detected case of MERS-CoV in the country. The patient who had contracted the virus was from the Middle East and
Thailand closes more public facilities as coronavirus cases top 1,100. [SEP] King Chulalongkorn Memorial Hospital // Center for Breast Cancer. It serves as the office of many WHO Collaborating Centres in Thailand. In 2007, ground was broken for the hospital's Bhumisirimangkalanusorn Building — claimed to be the largest medical hub in ASEAN — is a 12.5-billion baht (US$376 million) 29-storey facility. It was jointly financed by the state and the Thai Red Cross Society. The new addition opened on a partial basis in 2016 and is due to be fully inaugurated by the end of 2017. It has over 1,250 beds. Fully operational, it will house over 1,600 physicians and 2,100 nurses. King Chulalongkorn Memorial Hospital
Thailand closes more public facilities as coronavirus cases top 1,100. [SEP] Human coronavirus HKU1 // these cases, French investigators utilized improved techniques for recovering the virus from nasopharyngeal aspirates and from stool samples. Human coronavirus HKU1 Human coronavirus HKU1 (HCoV-HKU1) is a positive-sense, single-stranded RNA virus with the HE gene, which distinguishes it as a group 2, or betacoronavirus. It was discovered in January 2005 in two patients in Hong Kong. HCoV-HKU1 was first identified in January, 2005, in a 71-year-old man who was hospitalized with an acute respiratory distress and radiolographically confirmed bilateral pneumonia. The man had recently returned to Hong Kong from Shenzhen, China. Woo, et al., were unsuccessful in their attempts to
Thailand closes more public facilities as coronavirus cases top 1,100. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // government, in November 2013, reported a woman in Spain, who had recently traveled to Saudi Arabia for the Islamic pilgrimage, contracted the disease. On 14 April 2014, one Filipino paramedic died in the United Arab Emirates, with six other reported to be infected with the virus. On 17 April, the UAE Ministry of Health reported another fatality and four additional cases, including the Filipino medical worker who travelled to the Philippines on 16 April. On 21 April 2014, the Health Ministry of UAE reported an additional 9 cases. In April 2012, six hospital workers were diagnosed with acute respiratory failure
Thailand closes more public facilities as coronavirus cases top 1,100. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // deaths." On 31 October 2013, the WHO announced that three patients in Saudi Arabia died of MERS. The patients were one woman and two men and "all had underlying medical conditions but all reported having had no contact with animals before falling ill". Early of 23 April 2014, 11 new cases including a first case for Mecca were reported by the Health Ministry. An additional 13 cases were reported on the same day. With the additional reported cases, there are now a total of 285 cases with 83 deaths in the Kingdom. A hospital-related outbreak in Riyadh brought the total
Current expenditures could likely cover the estimated costs of Medicare for All. [SEP] Medicare (United States) // Plan A available, and if they offer any other policies, they must also make either Plan C or Plan F available as well, though Plan F is scheduled to sunset in the year 2020. Anyone who currently has a Plan F may keep it. Medicare contracts with regional insurance companies to process over one billion fee-for-service claims per year. In 2008, Medicare accounted for 13% ($386 billion) of the federal budget. In 2016 it is projected to account for close to 15% ($683 billion) of the total expenditures. For the decade 2010–2019 Medicare is projected to cost 6.4 trillion dollars.
Current expenditures could likely cover the estimated costs of Medicare for All. [SEP] Medicare (United States) // potentially unsustainable elements of current law." For example, current law effectively provides no raises for doctors after 2025; that is unlikely to happen. It is impossible for actuaries to estimate unfunded liability other than assuming current law is followed (except relative to benefits as noted), the Trustees state "that actual long-range present values for (Part A) expenditures and (Part B/D) expenditures and revenues could exceed the amounts estimated by a substantial margin." Popular opinion surveys show that the public views Medicare's problems as serious, but not as urgent as other concerns. In January 2006, the Pew Research Center found 62
Current expenditures could likely cover the estimated costs of Medicare for All. [SEP] Albany Health and Human Services Corporation // The Congressional Budget Office (CBO) predicts that the federal government will need $32 trillion in United States public debt to fund the existing Medicare program. Given the current problems with Federal tax revenue by state The 2007-2010 economic crisis proves that the US Congress may have difficulty funding future federal health programs. The county comptroller's office warned again in 2005 by presenting a report advocating for reforms at the ACNH. The 2005 report explained the findings of a recent New York State Health Department inspection. In the 2005 report the comptroller's office again warned that a new facility (Olmstead Law
Current expenditures could likely cover the estimated costs of Medicare for All. [SEP] Medicare (United States) // approximately as of 2018 $1000 in the initial spend phase and $3000 to reach the catastrophic phase. This is just a template and about half of all Part D plans differ (for example, no initial deductible, better coverage in the gap) with permission of CMS, which it typically grants as long as the sponsor provides at least the actuarial equivalent value. No part of Medicare pays for all of a beneficiary's covered medical costs and many costs and services are not covered at all. The program contains premiums, deductibles and coinsurance, which the covered individual must pay out-of-pocket. A study
Current expenditures could likely cover the estimated costs of Medicare for All. [SEP] United States federal budget // The forecasts from 2009 and 2015 differ materially, mainly due to changes in the projected rate of healthcare cost increases, which have moderated considerably. Rather than rising to nearly 12% GDP over the forecast period (through 2080) as forecast in 2009, the 2015 forecast has Medicare costs rising to 6% GDP, comparable to the Social Security program. The increase in healthcare costs is one of the primary drivers of long-term budget deficits. The long-term budget situation has considerably improved in the 2015 forecast versus the 2009 forecast per the Trustees Report. U.S. healthcare costs were approximately $3.2 trillion or nearly
Current expenditures could likely cover the estimated costs of Medicare for All. [SEP] Medicare (United States) // As of January 1, 2016, Medicare's unfunded obligation over the 75 year timeframe is $3.8 trillion for the Part A Trust Fund and $28.6 trillion for Part B. Over an infinite timeframe the combined unfunded liability for both programs combined is over $50 trillion, with the difference primarily in the Part B estimate. These estimates assume that CMS will pay full benefits as currently specified over those periods though that would be contrary to current United States law. In addition, as discussed throughout each annual Trustees' report, "the Medicare projections shown could be substantially understated as a result of other
Current expenditures could likely cover the estimated costs of Medicare for All. [SEP] Medicare (United States) // cost savings. Estimated savings from more effective coordinated care for the dual eligibles range from $125 billion to over $200 billion, mostly by eliminating unnecessary, expensive hospital admissions. Income-relating Medicare premiums Both House Republicans and President Obama proposed increasing the additional premiums paid by the wealthiest people with Medicare, compounding several reforms in the ACA that would increase the number of wealthier individuals paying higher, income-related Part B and Part D premiums. Such proposals are projected to save $20 billion over the course of a decade, and would ultimately result in more than a quarter of Medicare enrollees paying between
Current expenditures could likely cover the estimated costs of Medicare for All. [SEP] Expenditures in the United States federal budget // or spend; our budgets will remain unsustainable unless we get health care costs under control." The present value of unfunded obligations under all parts of Medicare during FY 2007 is approximately $34.1 trillion. In other words, this amount would have to be set aside today such that the principal and interest would cover the shortfall over the next 75 years. This is over six times as large as the Social Security unfunded obligation of $5.3 trillion, discussed below. Social Security is a social insurance program officially called "Old-Age, Survivors, and Disability Insurance" (OASDI), in reference to its three components. It
Current expenditures could likely cover the estimated costs of Medicare for All. [SEP] Medicare (United States) // more costs to Medicare enrollees. Several measures serve as indicators of the long-term financial status of Medicare. These include total Medicare spending as a share of gross domestic product (GDP), the solvency of the Medicare HI trust fund, Medicare per-capita spending growth relative to inflation and per-capita GDP growth; general fund revenue as a share of total Medicare spending; and actuarial estimates of unfunded liability over the 75-year timeframe and the infinite horizon (netting expected premium/tax revenue against expected costs). The major issue in all these indicators is comparing any future projections against current law vs. what the actuaries expect
Current expenditures could likely cover the estimated costs of Medicare for All. [SEP] Health care finance in the United States // was primarily driven by more persons covered due to the ACA. Medicare covered 57 million people mainly aged 65 and over as of September 2016. Enrollees pay little in premiums but have deductibles for hospital stays. The program is funded partially by the FICA payroll tax and partially by the general fund (other tax revenues). The CBO reported in October 2017 that adjusted for timing differences, Medicare spending rose by $22 billion (4%) in fiscal year 2017 to $595 billion, reflecting growth in both the number of beneficiaries and in the average benefit payment. Medicare average spending per-enrollee was $10,986
Compound May Fight Hard-to-Treat Lung Cancer [SEP] HuaChanSu // molecules in HuaChanSu include the cardiac glycosides bufalin, cinobufagin, cinobufotalin and resibufogenin. These molecules are effective due to their lipid-soluble characteristic, which helps them remain in the body longer; they slow the growth of cancer cells and induce cell cycle arrest. More specifically, these molecules suppress the protein Bcl-2, which is a cancer-prone lymphoma protein, and induce cell death upon BRO (melanoma) cells. Since the 1970s, clinical trials for HuaChanSu had been held in China. The clinical trials showed between 10% and 16% decrease in lung cancer masses. At first, the United States was reluctant to invest in the study
Compound May Fight Hard-to-Treat Lung Cancer [SEP] Dauricine // the suppression of colon cancer tumor cells. Dauricine and Lung Cancer: Dauricine has been shown to cause cytotoxicity in human lung cell lines, including BEAS-2B, WI-38, and A5449, which have been implicated in lung bronchus, lung fibroblast, and lung cancer, respectively. One study found that after 24-hour exposure to 40 µM dauricine, there was more than 60% cell death in the aforementioned human lung cell lines. Moreover, CYP3A, a class of human recombinant P450 enzymes, have been found to activate dauricine in human lung cells, resulting in the formation of quinone methide metabolite whose role in lung cytotoxicity needs to
Compound May Fight Hard-to-Treat Lung Cancer [SEP] Satraplatin // of lung and ovarian cancers. The proposed mode of action is that the compound binds to the DNA of cancer cells rendering them incapable of dividing. Satraplatin is an orally bioavailable platinum chemotherapeutic agent under development for several cancer types, including hormone-refractory prostate cancer (HRPC). Satraplatin is being developed for the treatment of men with chemorefractory HRPC for several reasons. Its relative ease of administration, potential lack of cross-resistance with other platinum agents, clinical benefits seen in early studies of HRPC, and an unmet need in this patient population after Docetaxel failure. Satraplatin may provide a palliative benefit for patients
Compound May Fight Hard-to-Treat Lung Cancer [SEP] Treatment of lung cancer // NSCLC. Squalamine is undergoing trials for treatment of non-small cell lung cancer (stage I/IIA). In December 2012, Merck published the results of its current study. Although the Phase III Trial of L-BLP25 (Stimuvax) did not meet satisfying primary endpoints for patients with Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer, notable treatment effects have been observed for L-BLP25 in certain subgroups in the START study. Treatment of lung cancer Treatment of lung cancer refers to the use of medical therapies, such as surgery, radiation, chemotherapy, immunotherapy, percutaneous ablation, and palliative care, alone or in combination, in an attempt to cure or lessen the adverse
Compound May Fight Hard-to-Treat Lung Cancer [SEP] PSMB6 // to inhibit lung cancer in both in-vivo and in-vitro experimental models. Accordingly, the protein profile changes of human lung cancer cell lines A549 in response to periplocin treatment were investigated using proteomics approaches (2-DE combined with MS/MS) in conjuction with Western blot analysis to verify the changed proteins. Using immunoblot analysis followed by STRING bioinformatics analysis, it was revealed that Periplocin can inhibited growth of lung cancer by down-regulating proteins, such as ATP5A1, EIF5A, ALDH1 and PSMB6. Thus, the proteasome subunit beta type-6 (PSMB6) appears to have a significant role in molecular mechanisms underlying the anti-cancer effects of periplocin on
Compound May Fight Hard-to-Treat Lung Cancer [SEP] Treatment of lung cancer // removed, treatment with combined radiotherapy and chemotherapy improves survival significantly. Tumor Treating Fields might improve chemotherapy treatment. In recent years, various molecular targeted therapies have been developed for the treatment of advanced lung cancer. Gefitinib (Iressa; withdrawn from the U.S. market) is one such drug, which targets the tyrosine kinase domain of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), expressed in many cases of non-small cell lung carcinoma. It was not shown to increase survival, although females, Asians, nonsmokers, and those with bronchioloalveolar carcinoma appear to derive the most benefit from gefitinib. Erlotinib (Tarceva), another EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor, increased survival
Compound May Fight Hard-to-Treat Lung Cancer [SEP] Lung cancer // NSCLC. In advanced cases, appropriate chemotherapy improves average survival over supportive care alone, as well as improving quality of life. With adequate physical fitness maintaining chemotherapy during lung cancer palliation offers 1.5 to 3 months of prolongation of survival, symptomatic relief, and an improvement in quality of life, with better results seen with modern agents. The NSCLC Meta-Analyses Collaborative Group recommends if the recipient wants and can tolerate treatment, then chemotherapy should be considered in advanced NSCLC. Several drugs that target molecular pathways in lung cancer are available, especially for the treatment of advanced disease. Erlotinib, gefitinib and afatinib inhibit
Compound May Fight Hard-to-Treat Lung Cancer [SEP] Lung cancer // factor receptor (EGFR) and anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) tyrosine kinase inhibitors, new drugs are in development. New EGFR inhibitors include afatinib and dacomitinib. An alternative signaling pathway, c-Met, can be inhibited by tivantinib and onartuzumab. New ALK inhibitors include crizotinib and ceritinib. If the MAPK/ERK pathway is involved, the BRAF kinase inhibitor dabrafenib and the MAPK/MEK inhibitor trametinib may be beneficial. Lung cancer stem cells are often resistant to conventional chemotherapy and radiotherapy. This may lead to relapse after treatment. New approaches target protein or glycoprotein markers that are specific to the stem cells. Such markers include CD133, CD90, ALDH1A1,
Compound May Fight Hard-to-Treat Lung Cancer [SEP] Lung cancer // with drugs can kill cancer cells. Early-stage research in NSCLC using drugs aimed at epigenetic modifications shows that blocking more than one of these tags can kill cancer cells with fewer side effects. Studies also show that giving patients these drugs before standard treatment can improve its effectiveness. Clinical trials are underway to evaluate how well these drugs kill lung cancer cells in humans. Several drugs that target epigenetic mechanisms are in development. Histone deacetylase inhibitors in development include valproic acid, vorinostat, belinostat, panobinostat, entinostat, and romidepsin. DNA methyltransferase inhibitors in development include decitabine, azacytidine, and hydralazine. The TRACERx project
Compound May Fight Hard-to-Treat Lung Cancer [SEP] Lung cancer // immunotherapy, which encourages the body's immune system to attack the tumor cells, epigenetics, and new combinations of chemotherapy and radiotherapy, both on their own and together. Many of these new treatments work through immune checkpoint blockade, disrupting cancer's ability to evade the immune system. Ipilimumab blocks signaling through a receptor on T cells known as CTLA-4 which dampens down the immune system. It has been approved by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for treatment of melanoma and is undergoing clinical trials for both NSCLC and SCLC. Other immunotherapy treatments interfere with the binding of programmed cell death 1
Chicago receives $6.7M to help people living with HIV/AIDS. [SEP] AIDS Foundation of Chicago // AIDS Foundation of Chicago The AIDS Foundation of Chicago (AFC) is a non-profit organization, based in Chicago, which is active in the field of HIV/AIDS and health equity. Its mission is to mobilize communities to create equity and justice for people living with and vulnerable to HIV and related chronic diseases. It works toward a world in which people living with HIV and related chronic diseases will thrive, and new HIV infections will be rare. The AIDS Foundation of Chicago was founded in 1985. In 2012, the organization established community-based HIV testing and set up partnerships with medical homes to
Chicago receives $6.7M to help people living with HIV/AIDS. [SEP] Howard Brown Health Center // HIV/AIDS. Additional locations are in the Boystown, Englewood, Lakeview, and Rogers Park neighborhoods. Youth aged 12–24 may access services at Howard Brown Health Center's Broadway Youth Center (BYC), located in Chicago's Boystown neighborhood. In addition to providing medical services, the center offers a GED program; high school and college tutoring; assistance in applying for health insurance, food stamps, housing and jobs; food, clothes and laundry services; refuge and other care to LGBTQ youth. Howard Brown Health operates three resale shops called The Brown Elephant in Chicago's Lakeview and Andersonville neighborhoods and in suburban Oak Park. Donations go to support the
Chicago receives $6.7M to help people living with HIV/AIDS. [SEP] AIDS Foundation of Chicago // initiate care within 72 hours for individuals found to be HIV positive. The AFC was one of the founding organizations of the International Rectal Microbicide Advocates. AIDS Foundation of Chicago The AIDS Foundation of Chicago (AFC) is a non-profit organization, based in Chicago, which is active in the field of HIV/AIDS and health equity. Its mission is to mobilize communities to create equity and justice for people living with and vulnerable to HIV and related chronic diseases. It works toward a world in which people living with HIV and related chronic diseases will thrive, and new HIV infections will be
Chicago receives $6.7M to help people living with HIV/AIDS. [SEP] Foreign policy of the George W. Bush administration // relief for the 15 countries most affected by HIV/AIDS, another $5 billion for continuing support of AIDS relief in 100 countries where the U.S. already had bilateral programs established, and an additional $1 billion towards the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria. This budget represented more money contributed to fight AIDS globally than all other donor countries combined. As the largest national economy in the world, the United States' leadership and commitment was seen as vital in addressing world poverty and ensuring implementation of the project, considered the most progressive and feasible to date for the United Nations
Chicago receives $6.7M to help people living with HIV/AIDS. [SEP] Christie Hefner // helped to raise $30 million to build the CORE Center in Chicago, the first outpatient facility in the Midwest for people with AIDS. From 2007 to 2011, she served as Co-Chair of the Capital Campaign for the Black Ensemble Theatre (BET). BET was founded in 1976. It is a cultural jewel in the city of Chicago, committed to using theater as a cultural bridge, bringing together people of all nationalities and cultures to facilitate communication, understanding and acceptance, while celebrating the uniqueness of the human spirit. She married former Illinois state senator William A. Marovitz, a real estate developer and
Chicago receives $6.7M to help people living with HIV/AIDS. [SEP] Howard Brown Health Center // in great breakthroughs in AIDS treatment and prevention. Besides research, the agency continued to serve the community by helping to set up the city's first AIDS hotline in 1985, and organizing medical and psychosocial services to the affected members of the community. In 1991, the Howard Brown Health Center was inducted into the Chicago Gay and Lesbian Hall of Fame. It was recognized as "the Midwest's leading provider of support services to and for people living with AIDS and HIV disease, and an internationally recognized center for hepatitis and AIDS/HIV research." In 1997, Howard Brown Health's new facility on Sheridan
Chicago receives $6.7M to help people living with HIV/AIDS. [SEP] AIDS Drug Assistance Programs // with California receiving $288 Million, New York $241 Million, Texas $101 Million, and Florida $97 Million. The program first began in 1987 with appropriations to help pay for AZT. The program was expanded in 1990 with the Ryan White Comprehensive AIDS Resources Emergency (CARE) Act (commonly referred to as the Ryan White Care Act. Most recipients are below 200% of the Federal Poverty Level (FPL) and 43 percent are below 100% the FPL. 63% are black or hispanic and 77% are male. In 2010, some states, citing budgetary reasons began cutbacks to the ADAP Formulary or instituted waiting lists for
Chicago receives $6.7M to help people living with HIV/AIDS. [SEP] HIV/AIDS in Ghana // the World Bank-funded Treatment Acceleration Program for public-private partnership in HIV/AIDS management; the World Health Organization (WHO) 3X5 initiative; the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria (GFATM). Following the Declaration of Commitment of the United Nations General Assembly Special Session on HIV/AIDS in 2001, the Government of Ghana earmarked 15% of its health budget for HIV/AIDS activities, and all ministries were asked to create an HIV/AIDS budget line. Available funding to support Ghana’s response to the HIV/AIDS epidemic includes about $6.7 million from GFATM; about $12 million from multilateral partners, including the World Bank; and about $8 million
Chicago receives $6.7M to help people living with HIV/AIDS. [SEP] Mark Harrington (HIV/AIDS activist) // money from the MacArthur Foundation, Harrington felt that it would be best served to help combat HIV infections in countries that are largest and most devastatingly hit. In 2007 he received a $4.7 million grant from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation which he used for expanding initiatives to educate AIDS activists in Africa on the dangers and truths of TB, and increase government intervention. His work on tuberculosis began in 2002, and continues to present day. Harrington hopes to get more emphasis put on tuberculosis as it is characteristically a disease of the poor and marginalized so it has
Chicago receives $6.7M to help people living with HIV/AIDS. [SEP] Gay Men's Health Crisis // more clients. The Keith Haring Food Pantry Program will increase its capacity to provide grocery bags and nutrition counseling to more people in need. The new location has enabled GMHC to expand its services to meet the growing and complex needs of people affected by HIV/AIDS. In this 30th year of the epidemic, HIV continues to rise at alarming rates – locally and nationally – particularly among women, African Americans, Latinos and men who have sex with men. The HIV prevention and testing programs are being expanded in the new GMHC Center for HIV Prevention at 224 West 29th Street
Kentucky reports 4 adults have died of the flu this season. [SEP] Joseph N. McCormack // public health nursing and county health departments. In 1918 and 1919 McCormack oversaw the board's efforts to contain the influenza pandemic, one of the deadliest natural disasters in human history. Influenza infected an estimated 300,000 people in Kentucky and killed approximately 15,000 statewide in a matter of months. During World War I the USPHS coordinated its efforts with the KSBH and the Louisville municipal and Jefferson county health boards to improve health and sanitary conditions in the areas surrounding Camp Zachary Taylor. One of the many improvements made in the five-mile radius of the camp was the installation of a
Kentucky reports 4 adults have died of the flu this season. [SEP] 2017–18 United States flu season // that year hadn't "changed enough from previous seasons to be considered a novel strain." In the first week of February, deaths from influenza and pneumonia were responsible for one of every ten deaths in the US, with 4,064 from pneumonia or influenza recorded in the third week of 2018, according to CDC data. The CDC also reported 63 child deaths at that point, half of which were not considered medically high risk, and only about 20 percent who were vaccinated. Only two of those deaths were babies under six months old. On February 9, 2018, the CDC announced that the
Kentucky reports 4 adults have died of the flu this season. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic in the United States // much worse this is than seasonal flu. So far it's looking like it's not that serious. CNN stated on April 28, 2009 that there were at least 800 deaths in the U.S. due to normal influenza in each individual week between January 1 and April 18, which is higher than the combined worldwide death toll for the swine flu. As of November 19, 2009, the official death toll attributed directly to the novel H1N1 and seasonal influenza was 877. This total exceeds the 849 deaths directly attributed to seasonal influenza in 2006. Many of the other deaths commonly attributed to
Kentucky reports 4 adults have died of the flu this season. [SEP] 2017–18 United States flu season // 140 patients daily, had more than 200 patients on one of those days. By 19 January, seventy-four people under the age of 65 had died in California, with thirty-two of those deaths occurring in the preceding week, making it the deadliest week of the flu season so far. By February 9, 2018, the national rate for flu-like symptoms for patients visiting clinics had reached "well above" seven percent, a rate last seen during the H1N1 swine flu epidemic of 2009. According to the "Los Angeles Times", 163 people under the age of 65 had died of the flu since October
Kentucky reports 4 adults have died of the flu this season. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic in the United States by state // reported in a teen boy attending a Minneapolis Public School. A Minneapolis five-year-old girl had succumbed to the flu during the week of June 8. As of July 23, 684 cases and three deaths have been reported. As of January 13,2 more people died of confirmed A/H1N1 influenza, increasing the number of confirmed deathsfrom H1N1 to 55 in the state.However, H1N1 influenza activity is currently low in Minnesota, with only one school outbreak reported in the first week of 2010. In Missouri, Gov. Jay Nixon announced in a written statement that a probable case had been discovered in a Platte
Kentucky reports 4 adults have died of the flu this season. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic in the United States by state // the seasonal flu. School closures in the area have since been eliminated in favor of simply sending the infected children home, resulting in slightly elevated absence rates statewide. The first death in the state due to H1N1 swine flu complications was reported by the Maricopa County Department of Public Health on May 14. As of January 15, Arizona has reported 142 deaths due to confirmed A/H1N1 influenza, including at least 2 in 2010 alone. As of July 16, 2009, the Arkansas Department of Health has reported 51 confirmed cases of swine flu. Four of the cases were from Camp Robinson,
Kentucky reports 4 adults have died of the flu this season. [SEP] 2017–18 United States flu season // 2017, compared to 40 deaths during the same time period the previous year. Of those 163 deaths, 36 had died during the first week of February; the same article also noted that the peak of the flu season has apparently passed as reports of new cases have declined. On February 11, 2018, the "Seattle Times" reported that "things [were] improving" in Washington state. At the time, the state had seen 151 flu-related fatalities, lower than the total of 214 that time the year before. On February 12, 2018, Delaware announced that it had seen six deaths and 995 confirmed flu
Kentucky reports 4 adults have died of the flu this season. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic in the United States by state // 291 cases of swine flu. As of February 2010, there have been at least 38 confirmed deaths due to A/H1N1 infection. Also, since September 1, there have been at least 468 confirmed cases of H1N1 in Indiana. On April 29, two probable case of swine flu were reported in Des Moines County and Clinton County. One was a woman from California, the other one was a man from Mexico. On May 3, another case was found in Marshall County causing schools to close. On the week of February 28, 2009, a three-year-old caught the swine flu due to close contact
Kentucky reports 4 adults have died of the flu this season. [SEP] 2017–18 United States flu season // recent flu outbreak had killed at least 63 children. On February 10, 2018, officials in New York City confirmed the third pediatric flu death for the 2017–2018 season. The week prior, 43 states reported high patient traffic for the flu, with flu remaining widespread in each state except Hawaii and Oregon. California was hit especially hard by the 2017–18 flu outbreak. In California as of 6 January, twenty-seven people under the age of 65 died from flu since October, nine times as many as the prior year. The Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center emergency room, which often caters to about
Kentucky reports 4 adults have died of the flu this season. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic in the United States by state // August 26, 2009, the Rhode Island Department of Health has reported 203 confirmed cases of H1N1 flu and two deaths. Three swines from a farm just north of Barrington contracted the flu which gave farmer Jimmy Bo-Brown many headaches. Sick swine have stunted growth and require increased attention from the farmer often leading to headaches. Two of the swines Elliott and Wilson died from dehydration and the last one recovered after about a week and was promptly slaughtered for bacon. On August 28, 2009 the South Carolina Department of Health and Environmental Control (SCDHEC) announced it will begin the first
Minnesota bets fiscal future on osteopathic medical school. [SEP] University of Minnesota Medical School // primary site for the Center for American Indian and Minority Health which aims to educate increased numbers of Native American students as medical professionals. In May 2018, the University of Minnesota Medical School announced to establish an independent high-profile anti-aging research department in the university. In 2009, US News & World Report ranked the University of Minnesota Medical School 35th in the United States for medical research and 7th for primary care. A 2010 study in the Annals of Internal Medicine found the University of Minnesota Medical School to be one of only two of 141 medical schools in the
Minnesota bets fiscal future on osteopathic medical school. [SEP] College of Osteopathic Medicine of the Pacific, Northwest // as 2007, and in January 2008 it was announced the school would partner with Willamette Valley based Samaritan Health Services. A year later, the planned school received accreditation by the American Osteopathic Association, and in June 2009 groundbreaking took place for the first building on the campus, a structure owned by Samaritan Health Services and leased to the school. That building was estimated to cost $15 million to build, and COMP Northwest signed a 20-year lease on the building. During the 76th Oregon Legislative Assembly, the Senate passed a resolution to "congratulate the College of Osteopathic Medicine of the Pacific
Minnesota bets fiscal future on osteopathic medical school. [SEP] Michigan State University // University Board of Trustees approved a resolution endorsing the expansion of the College of Osteopathic Medicine to two sites in southeast Michigan, a move board members and college officials say will not only improve medical education in the state, but also address a projected physician shortage. According to "U.S. News & World Report"'s 2016 rankings, the College of Osteopathic Medicine (D.O. degree) ranked tied for 12th among U.S. medical schools for primary care, and the College of Human Medicine (MD degree) was ranked 70th among the U.S. medical schools for primary care. The College of Human Medicine graduates students with
Minnesota bets fiscal future on osteopathic medical school. [SEP] Midwestern University // Association's Commission on Osteopathic College Accreditation. The university was founded in 1900 as the American College of Osteopathic Medicine and Surgery. The school was the fourth medical school in the world to grant the Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine (D.O.) degree, and the first in the state of Illinois. In 1986, the Chicago College of Osteopathic Medicine moved from its prior location in Hyde Park, Chicago, Illinois to a new campus in the western suburb of Downers Grove, Illinois. In 1991, the Chicago College of Pharmacy opened. The College of Health Sciences began in 1992. In 1993, the Board of Trustees
Minnesota bets fiscal future on osteopathic medical school. [SEP] Michigan State University College of Osteopathic Medicine // alumni of the program have entered many prestigious residency programs and most graduates find careers in medical colleges, universities, or major medical research centers. Michigan State University College of Osteopathic Medicine consistently is ranked among the top medical schools in the US. U.S. News & World Report has released its annual evaluation of the top graduate schools in the United States, and MSUCOM was ranked number 33 of the "Primary Care" category. In 2014, MSUCOM ranked ninth among all medical schools in United States of America for primary care education and first in producing the most primary care residents. The
Minnesota bets fiscal future on osteopathic medical school. [SEP] University of Minnesota Medical School // United States to be in the top quartile for NIH funding, output of primary care physicians, and social mission score. University of Minnesota Medical School The University of Minnesota Medical School is the medical school of the University of Minnesota. It is a combination of two campuses situated in Minneapolis and Duluth, Minnesota. The University of Minnesota Medical School is also part of one of the largest Academic Health Centers (AHC) in the United States. This center allows health professionals to train collaboratively during the course of their training programs. The AHC comprises the Medical School, School of Dentistry, School
Minnesota bets fiscal future on osteopathic medical school. [SEP] University of Minnesota Medical School // University of Minnesota Medical School The University of Minnesota Medical School is the medical school of the University of Minnesota. It is a combination of two campuses situated in Minneapolis and Duluth, Minnesota. The University of Minnesota Medical School is also part of one of the largest Academic Health Centers (AHC) in the United States. This center allows health professionals to train collaboratively during the course of their training programs. The AHC comprises the Medical School, School of Dentistry, School of Nursing, College of Pharmacy, School of Public Health, and the College of Veterinary Medicine. The University of Minnesota Medical
Minnesota bets fiscal future on osteopathic medical school. [SEP] Michigan State University College of Osteopathic Medicine // Medicine and Marian University College of Osteopathic Medicine are also affiliated with the SCS. Michigan State University College of Osteopathic Medicine The Michigan State University College of Osteopathic Medicine (MSUCOM) is the osteopathic medical school of Michigan State University located in East Lansing, Michigan. The college grants the Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine (D.O.) degree, as well as a DO-PhD combined degree for students interested in training as physician-scientists. MSUCOM operates two satellite campuses in Macomb and Detroit. The college is accredited by the American Osteopathic Association's Commission on Osteopathic College Accreditation (COCA) and by the Higher Learning Commission of the
Minnesota bets fiscal future on osteopathic medical school. [SEP] Michigan State University College of Osteopathic Medicine // the Center for Innovation and Research in 2012. In December 2017, MSU and McLaren announced they were strengthening their partnership and that a new $450 million hospital would be built near MSU’s East Lansing campus. The college offers the Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine (D.O.) degree, as well as dual degrees (DO-PhD, DO-MPH, and DO-MBA). Applicant selection is made from a competitive applicant pool and depends on many aspects of the applicant such as GPA, MCAT, maturity, and life experiences. Among admitted students, the average GPA is 3.6 and the average MCAT score is 29-30. MSUCOM’s curriculum consists of pre-clerkship years
Minnesota bets fiscal future on osteopathic medical school. [SEP] Kansas City University of Medicine and Biosciences // Osteopathic Medicine confers the Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine (D.O.) degree. The College of Osteopathic Medicine is one of three medical schools in the United States to be recognized twice with the John Templeton Foundation’s Spirituality in Medicine Curricular Award, which recognizes outstanding medical education curricula incorporating spirituality in medicine. KCU is also one of three osteopathic medical schools nationwide working to enhance future physicians’ cultural competency and eliminate disparities in health care through a grant from the American Medical Student Association. The curriculum at KCU’s College of Osteopathic Medicine consists of four years of structured training. The first two years
A woman became pregnant from being struck by a bullet that had passed through the scrotum of a Civil War soldier. [SEP] Legrand G. Capers // and "American Medical Weekly". The infamous case of "bullet pregnancy" was published in 1874 in The American Medical Weekly. Capers claimed that he witnessed this case eleven years before, while serving in the Confederate army: On the 12th day of May, 1863, the battle of R. was fought. [...] Our men were fighting nobly, but pressed by superior numbers, had gradually fallen back to within one hundred and fifty yards of the house. My position being near my regiment, suddenly I beheld a noble, gallant young friend staggering closer, and then fall to the earth. In the same moment a
A woman became pregnant from being struck by a bullet that had passed through the scrotum of a Civil War soldier. [SEP] Luisa Guidotti Mistrali // a checkpoint at which point bursts of gunfire from machine guns came from both sides of the road from two soldiers which struck her: it severed her femoral artery and caused her to die from excessive bleeding. Guidotti was going from the hospital to the pregnant woman's home when she was forced to stop at a checkpoint. Soldiers were there since one of their own had been shot dead there. Guidotti saw no road blocks so waited and then thought she could leave so drove off and turned right to get to the woman's home. It was then that the
A woman became pregnant from being struck by a bullet that had passed through the scrotum of a Civil War soldier. [SEP] Gianna Beretta Molla // pain had disappeared with the doctors amazed at the fact that the fistula had healed in full. The miracle that led to her canonization involved Elizabeth Comparini who was sixteen weeks pregnant in 2003 from Franca in Brazil and sustained a tear in her placenta that drained her womb of all amniotic fluid. Comparini's doctors told her that the child's chance of survival was nil due to the weeks left prior to birth. Comparini said she appealed to the then-Blessed asking for her intercession and was able to deliver her child in perfect health despite the lack of amniotic fluid.
A woman became pregnant from being struck by a bullet that had passed through the scrotum of a Civil War soldier. [SEP] Firearm ownership law in China // hospital. It was supposed that the bullet had pierced the upper part of his lungs. Another instance occurred seven days after the French landing, when a Chinese walked into the hospital with his skull wounded and the brain visible. Several others, shot through the thighs and arms, bones being splintered in many pieces, bore their pain most heroically. Soon after the engagement, when there were seventy men in the hospital, some being badly wounded with as many as three shots apiece, there was scarcely a groan to be heard. One of the wounded came to the hospital after having had
A woman became pregnant from being struck by a bullet that had passed through the scrotum of a Civil War soldier. [SEP] Contemporary reaction to Ignaz Semmelweis // her ward. In this way the other patients were exposed and nearly all the patients in that room died. […] The ichorous particles that saturated the air of the maternity ward penetrated the uteruses already lacerated in the birth process. The particles were resorbed, and childbed fever resulted. Even with the most meticulous chlorine-washings there seemed to be an unavoidable mortality rate of about 1 percent. He therefore suggested that self-infection took place - that internally generated cadaveric particles were responsible, for instance tissue crushed in the birth process and eventually turning gangrenous. Most of the objections from Semmelweis's critics
A woman became pregnant from being struck by a bullet that had passed through the scrotum of a Civil War soldier. [SEP] Emory and Henry College Hospital // the Civil War. Silas Sims, a member of the 4th Kentucky (CSA) Cavalry, came upon a dead Federal Officer who had been struck by an artillery shell in the head. He then proceeded to reach into his haversack and grab some granulated salt. He then poured the salt from his hand into the open skull proclaiming: "There, you came for some salt, now take some." The atrocities against the Federal dead and dying continued throughout the night. Confederate soldiers took a special spite in killing the Negroes that had been injured on the field. George W. Carter noted: "After the
A woman became pregnant from being struck by a bullet that had passed through the scrotum of a Civil War soldier. [SEP] Legrand G. Capers // piercing scream from the house reached my ear! I was soon by the side of the young man, and, upon examination, found a compound fracture, with extensive comminution of the left tibia; the ball having ricochetted from these parts, and, in its onward flight, passed through the scrotum, carrying away the left testicle. Scarcely had I finished dressing the wounds of this poor fellow, when the estimable matron came running to me in the greatest distress, begging me to go to one of her daughters, who, she informed me, had been badly wounded a few minutes before. Hastening to the
A woman became pregnant from being struck by a bullet that had passed through the scrotum of a Civil War soldier. [SEP] Son of a gun // declared he literally was thus cradled, under the breast of a gun-carriage." Alternatively, historian Brian Downing proposes that the phrase "son of a gun" originated from feudal knights' disdain for newly developed firearms and those who wielded them. An American urban myth also proposes that the saying originated in a story reported in the October 7, 1864 "The American Medical Weekly" about a woman impregnated by a bullet that went through a soldier's scrotum and into her abdomen. The story about the woman was a joke written by Dr. Legrand G. Capers; some people who read the weekly failed to
A woman became pregnant from being struck by a bullet that had passed through the scrotum of a Civil War soldier. [SEP] Kunan Poshpora incident // had given birth to a child with a fractured arm just four days later. The investigative committee interviewed the hospital officials and concluded that injuries like this may happen due to the efforts of doctors, who are trying to position the unborn fetus for a delivery. On March 15 and 21, Medical examinations were conducted on 32 of the women, confirmed presence of abrasions on their chests and abdomens, and three of the unmarried women had torn hymens. The team concluded that "such a delayed medical examination proves nothing" and that such abrasions are commonly found among villagers in Kashmir.
A woman became pregnant from being struck by a bullet that had passed through the scrotum of a Civil War soldier. [SEP] Vyckie Garrison // at home, without attendance by a medical professional, but her uterus partially ruptured during labour, almost killing her. Her doctor advised her that her life would be in danger if she continued to conceive, but her friends in the Quiverfull movement said otherwise: "I was told that a woman shouldn't shrink back from supposed dangers and that we should honour God with our bodies," she says. "Jesus died for us, we should be willing to die for him." She became pregnant twice more, suffering two miscarriages. Garrison asserts that her then-husband beat and emotionally bullied their children. "I started seeing
Event 201 “gave out stuffed souvenir coronavirus toys” to “commemorate” Novel coronavirus outbreak [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // coronavirus researcher at the Erasmus Medical Center (EMC) in Rotterdam, The Netherlands. The second laboratory-proven case was in London, confirmed by the UK Health Protection Agency (HPA). The HPA named the virus the London1_novel CoV 2012. On 8 November 2012, in an article published in the New England Journal of Medicine, Dr. Zaki and co-authors from the Erasmus Medical Center published more details, including a scientific name, Human Coronavirus-Erasmus Medical Center (HCoV-EMC), which was then used in scientific literature. In the article, they noted four respiratory human coronaviruses (HCoV) known to be endemic: 229E, OC43, NL63, and HKU1. In May
Event 201 “gave out stuffed souvenir coronavirus toys” to “commemorate” Novel coronavirus outbreak [SEP] Coronaviridae // selection and packaging is critical for developing antiviral strategies and viral expression vectors based on the coronavirus genome. Coronaviridae Coronaviridae is a family of enveloped, positive-sense, single-stranded RNA viruses. The viral genome is 26–32 kb in length. Virions are spherical, 120–160 nm across ("Coronavirinae"), bacilliform, 170–200 by 75–88 nm ("Bafinivirus") or found as a mixture of both, with bacilliform particles characteristically bent into crescents ("Torovirus"). The particles are typically decorated with large (~20 nm), club- or petal-shaped surface projections (the “peplomers” or “spikes”), which in electron micrographs of spherical particles create an image reminiscent of the solar corona. Members of
Event 201 “gave out stuffed souvenir coronavirus toys” to “commemorate” Novel coronavirus outbreak [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // of unknown origin. Of the six, two died. All the cases were reported to the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC). After the September identification of a novel CoV strain, a retroactive analysis of the hospital workers was performed. Epidemiologists discovered the Jordan cases. Using stored laboratory samples for all six, it was found that samples from the two patients who had died tested positive for nCoV. On 24 April 2014, a 25-year-old male was found positive for the coronavirus. He had history of exposure to camels and had consumed camel milk. The Ministry of Health and Medical
Event 201 “gave out stuffed souvenir coronavirus toys” to “commemorate” Novel coronavirus outbreak [SEP] Coronavirus // in a small number of nucleotides. In 2003, following the outbreak of Severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) which had begun the prior year in Asia, and secondary cases elsewhere in the world, the World Health Organization (WHO) issued a press release stating that a novel coronavirus identified by a number of laboratories was the causative agent for SARS. The virus was officially named the SARS coronavirus (SARS-CoV). The epidemic resulted in over 8,000 infections, about 10% of which resulted in death. X-ray crystallography studies performed at the Advanced Light Source of Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory have begun to give hope
Event 201 “gave out stuffed souvenir coronavirus toys” to “commemorate” Novel coronavirus outbreak [SEP] Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus // similar cases appeared in Qatar and Saudi Arabia. Additional cases were noted, with deaths associated, and rapid research and monitoring of this novel coronavirus began. It is not certain whether the infections are the result of a single zoonotic event with subsequent human-to-human transmission, or if the multiple geographic sites of infection represent multiple zoonotic events from a common unknown source. A study by Ziad Memish of Riyadh University and colleagues suggests that the virus arose sometime between July 2007 and June 2012, with perhaps as many as 7 separate zoonotic transmissions. Among animal reservoirs, CoV has a large genetic
Event 201 “gave out stuffed souvenir coronavirus toys” to “commemorate” Novel coronavirus outbreak [SEP] Coronaviridae // Coronaviridae Coronaviridae is a family of enveloped, positive-sense, single-stranded RNA viruses. The viral genome is 26–32 kb in length. Virions are spherical, 120–160 nm across ("Coronavirinae"), bacilliform, 170–200 by 75–88 nm ("Bafinivirus") or found as a mixture of both, with bacilliform particles characteristically bent into crescents ("Torovirus"). The particles are typically decorated with large (~20 nm), club- or petal-shaped surface projections (the “peplomers” or “spikes”), which in electron micrographs of spherical particles create an image reminiscent of the solar corona. Members of this family are thus referred to as "coronaviruses", as are members of the subfamily "Coronavirinae". The 5' and
Event 201 “gave out stuffed souvenir coronavirus toys” to “commemorate” Novel coronavirus outbreak [SEP] London1 novel CoV/2012 // London1 novel CoV/2012 London1_novel CoV/2012 is the name of the novel coronavirus isolated from a Qatari man in London in 2012 who was one of the first patients to come down with what has since been named Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus. The Qatari patient had traveled to Saudi Arabia from Qatar. He returned to Qatar, but when he fell ill, he traveled to London for treatment. The United Kingdom's Health Protection Agency (HPA) named the virus. Phylogenetic analysis demonstrated that London1 is a betacoronavirus with a close relationship to Bat coronaviruses HKU4 and HKU5. It was found that the
Event 201 “gave out stuffed souvenir coronavirus toys” to “commemorate” Novel coronavirus outbreak [SEP] Coronavirus // of a vaccine against the disease "since [the spike protein] appears to be recognized by the immune system of the host." Following the high-profile publicity of SARS outbreaks, there has been a renewed interest in coronaviruses among virologists. For many years, scientists knew about only two human coronaviruses (HCoV-229E and HCoV-OC43). The discovery of SARS-CoV added a third human coronavirus. By the end of 2004, three independent research labs reported the discovery of a fourth human coronavirus. It has been named NL63, NL, and the New Haven coronavirus by different research groups. The three labs are still arguing over which
Event 201 “gave out stuffed souvenir coronavirus toys” to “commemorate” Novel coronavirus outbreak [SEP] London1 novel CoV/2012 // virus nucleic acid fragment identified in the isolate from the Qatai-London patient is derived from a novel coronavirus that is distinct from all coronaviruses previously identified. London1 novel CoV/2012 London1_novel CoV/2012 is the name of the novel coronavirus isolated from a Qatari man in London in 2012 who was one of the first patients to come down with what has since been named Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus. The Qatari patient had traveled to Saudi Arabia from Qatar. He returned to Qatar, but when he fell ill, he traveled to London for treatment. The United Kingdom's Health Protection Agency (HPA)
Event 201 “gave out stuffed souvenir coronavirus toys” to “commemorate” Novel coronavirus outbreak [SEP] Severe acute respiratory syndrome // SARS victims. In late May 2003, studies were conducted using samples of wild animals sold as food in the local market in Guangdong, China. The results found that the SARS coronavirus could be isolated from masked palm civets ("Paguma" sp.), even if the animals did not show clinical signs of the virus. The preliminary conclusion was the SARS virus crossed the xenographic barrier from asian palm civet to humans, and more than 10,000 masked palm civets were killed in Guangdong Province. The virus was also later found in raccoon dogs ("Nyctereuteus" sp.), ferret badgers ("Melogale" spp.), and domestic cats. In
Health officials have seen a surge in the number of people using "bug spray" to get high. [SEP] Epidemiology of bed bugs // with no sign of levelling off. This was considered likely to be due to increased temperatures. Bedbugs were commonly found in seats on London buses and Tube trains. Bed bugs have been reported in all 50 states. The U.S. National Pest Management Association reported a 71% increase in bed bug calls between 2000 and 2005. The Steritech Group, a pest-management company based in Charlotte, North Carolina, claimed that 25% of the 700 hotels they surveyed between 2002 and 2006 needed bed bug treatment. The resurgence led the United States Environmental Protection Agency to hold a National Bed Bug Summit in
Health officials have seen a surge in the number of people using "bug spray" to get high. [SEP] Project 112 // DOD and other national security agencies studied "hundreds, perhaps thousands" of weapons tests and experiments involving large area coverage of hazardous substances. The report states: Innocent civilians in cities, on subways and at airports were sprayed with disease carrying mosquitoes, "aerosols," containing bacteria, viruses, or exposed to a variety of dangerous chemical, biological and radiological agents as well as stimulant agents that were later found to be more dangerous than first thought. Precise information on the number of tests, experiments, and participants is not available and the exact number of veterans exposed will probably never be known. On December 2,
Health officials have seen a surge in the number of people using "bug spray" to get high. [SEP] Indoor residual spraying // chief of infectious disease control, Avertino Barreto, says that resistance to DDT spraying is "homegrown", not due to "pressure from environmentalists". "They only want us to use DDT on poor, rural black people," he says. "So whoever suggests DDT use, I say, 'Fine, I'll start spraying in your house first.'" As discussed above, DDT is one of 12 insecticides currently approved by the WHO for use in malaria control. The following table shows recent per country use of DDT for IRS. Unless otherwise noted, data for 2003–07 is from the 2008 Stockholm Convention/UNEP monograph on the current status of DDT,
Health officials have seen a surge in the number of people using "bug spray" to get high. [SEP] DEET // was used in Vietnam and Southeast Asia. In its original form known as "bug juice", the application solution for DEET was composed of 75% DEET and ethanol. Later, a new version of the repellent was developed by U.S. Army and the USDA. This incarnation consisted of DEET and polymers that extended the release of the DEET and reduced its evaporation rate. This extended-release application was registered by the EPA in 1991. A slightly yellow liquid at room temperature, it can be prepared by converting "m"-toluic acid (3-methylbenzoic acid) to the corresponding acyl chloride using thionyl chloride (SOCl), and then allowing
Health officials have seen a surge in the number of people using "bug spray" to get high. [SEP] D. J. M. Mackenzie // receive free vaccinations. In a short period of time, the number of people receiving free vaccinations in the territory had grown to 2.5 million. Besides, to echo the call of the Medical and Health Department in stepping up public hygiene, the Urban Services Department conducted an increased number of inspections to restaurants, streets and alleys to maintain a high quality of public hygiene. At one point during the outbreak, when there were rumours of people becoming insane after the injection, Mackenzie took swift actions to publicly denounce the rumour-makers as wicked and reiterated that pregnant women and people with high
Health officials have seen a surge in the number of people using "bug spray" to get high. [SEP] Epidemiology of bed bugs // 2009. Numbers of reported incidents in New York City rose from 500 in 2004 to 10,000 in 2009 mostly in Brooklyn area. In August, 2010, bed bugs were found in the Elle Fashion Hachette building in New York City. After suspected infestation, a beagle trained in sniffing bed bugs was used to confirm their presence. Office workers were told to work from home while the building was being treated. Although largely thought to only cause problems in less maintained and dirty environments, there is an increasing incidence of bed bugs for infesting indoor environments of high maintenance standards. One recent
Health officials have seen a surge in the number of people using "bug spray" to get high. [SEP] Naled // considered using the chemical in Puerto Rico to stop the spread of Zika, but decided against it due to the potential danger to pregnant women. Its proposed use against Zika led to protests in Puerto Rico. Miami is using specialized trucks to spray naled and "Bacillus thuringiensis israelensis" (BTI). Governor Rick Scott said that the CDC recommended using helicopters to spray the insecticides, but some people in Miami and Miami Beach are opposed to aerial spraying. Spraying of naled in Dorchester County, South Carolina purportedly led to the deaths of 3 million honeybees and increased criticism by beekeepers. Beekeepers in
Health officials have seen a surge in the number of people using "bug spray" to get high. [SEP] SENSOR-Pesticides // the health of agricultural workers, and funding for improved surveillance. In Florida, the state legislature added ten new pesticide inspectors to the Florida Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services. Total release foggers (TRFs), or "bug bombs," release a fog of insecticide to kill bugs in a room and coat surfaces with a chemical so the insects do not return. It is estimated that 50 million TRFs are used in the US annually. SENSOR-Pesticides federal and state staff, along with officials from the California Department of Pesticide Regulation (CDPR), published an article in the CDC MMWR that called attention to injuries
Health officials have seen a surge in the number of people using "bug spray" to get high. [SEP] Ceratitis capitata // and Plant Health Inspection service (APHIS), to authorize airborne spraying of the region. Initially, in accordance with his environmental protection stance, he chose to authorize ground-level spraying only. Unfortunately, the infestation spread as the medfly reproductive cycle out-paced the spraying. After more than a month, millions of dollars of crops had been destroyed and billions of dollars more were threatened. Governor Brown then authorized a massive response to the infestation. Fleets of helicopters sprayed malathion at night, and the California National Guard set up highway checkpoints and collected many tons of local fruit. In the final stage of the campaign,
Health officials have seen a surge in the number of people using "bug spray" to get high. [SEP] United States biological weapons program // the United States conducted a series of field tests using entomological weapons. Operation Big Itch, in 1954, was designed to test munitions loaded with uninfected fleas ("Xenopsylla cheopis"). In May 1955 over 300,000 yellow fever mosquitoes ("Aedes aegypti") were dropped over parts of the U.S. state of Georgia to determine if the air-dropped mosquitoes could survive to take meals from humans. The mosquito tests were known as Operation Big Buzz. The U.S. engaged in at least two other EW testing programs, Operation Drop Kick and Operation May Day. A 1981 Army report outlined these tests as well as multiple cost-associated
John O'Bannon Says "some Planned Parenthood chapters have been selling the body parts of aborted fetuses for profit. [SEP] Planned Parenthood 2015 undercover videos controversy // medical practices of abortion service providers and the business practices of the procurement organizations who sell baby body parts." Several Republican presidential candidates repeated CMP's allegations that PPFA used tissue donation as a way to profit from abortion. Rick Perry said "The video showing a Planned Parenthood employee selling the body parts of aborted children is a disturbing reminder of the organization's penchant for profiting off the tragedy of a destroyed human life", and cited the videos as the reason why Planned Parenthood should lose federal funding. Republican presidential candidate Rand Paul posted on Twitter "...a video showing Planned Parenthood's
John O'Bannon Says "some Planned Parenthood chapters have been selling the body parts of aborted fetuses for profit. [SEP] Planned Parenthood 2015 undercover videos controversy // said they may donate fetal tissue at the request of a patient, but such tissue is never sold. At one point in the video, a PPFA staffer states "nobody should be 'selling' tissue," and "that's just not the goal here." According to several experts in the field, the money Planned Parenthood received for fetal tissue was too little to make any profit for Planned Parenthood and constituted reasonable compensation for the costs of procurement, as allowed by federal law. These experts included Sherilyn J. Sawyer, the director of Harvard University's and Brigham and Women's Hospital's biorepository; Jim Vaught, president of
John O'Bannon Says "some Planned Parenthood chapters have been selling the body parts of aborted fetuses for profit. [SEP] Planned Parenthood 2015 undercover videos controversy // a way that falsely suggests that the stillborn was aborted. CMP claimed the videos were evidence of Planned Parenthood engaging in the illegal sale of fetal tissue. Their dummy corporation Biomax offered one clinic for tissue, but the affiliate declined the offer. "The New York Times" has characterized the offer as an attempt to "trap the affiliate in the act of accepting a high payment for fetal tissue". In a less-edited version of the first video, PPFA staff repeatedly state that the organization makes no money from tissue donations, and that the $30100 charge only covers procurement costs. PPFA have
John O'Bannon Says "some Planned Parenthood chapters have been selling the body parts of aborted fetuses for profit. [SEP] Planned Parenthood 2015 undercover videos controversy // top doctor describing how she performs late-term abortions to sell body parts for profit", vowed to campaign to defund Planned Parenthood, and called for Hillary Clinton to return Planned Parenthood's donations to her campaign. Carly Fiorina said "This latest news is tragic and outrageous. This isn't about 'choice'. It's about profiting on the death of the unborn while telling women it's about empowerment". During the September 16, 2015, GOP presidential candidates' debate on "CNN", she harshly criticized Planned Parenthood and their involvement in fetal tissue donation, stating "I dare Hillary Clinton, Barack Obama to watch these tapes. Watch a fully
John O'Bannon Says "some Planned Parenthood chapters have been selling the body parts of aborted fetuses for profit. [SEP] Marsha Blackburn // Subsequent investigations into Planned Parenthood found no evidence of fetal tissue sales or of wrongdoing. Later, in 2017, when Blackburn announced that she was running in the 2018 Tennessee senatorial race, she ran an advertisement saying that she "fought Planned Parenthood and we stopped the sale of baby body parts". Twitter banned the advertisement on its platform because of her assertion about the sale of baby body parts. In 2015, Blackburn claimed that 94% of Planned Parenthood's business revolves around abortion services; FactCheck.Org noted that abortions account for 3% of the total services provided by Planned Parenthood in 2013 and
John O'Bannon Says "some Planned Parenthood chapters have been selling the body parts of aborted fetuses for profit. [SEP] Planned Parenthood 2015 undercover videos controversy // by her superiors to encourage women seeking abortions to sign the consent forms, and that even when women refused to sign the fetal organs and tissues were sometimes taken anyway. In the unedited first video, representatives claim the donations are only made with the patient's consent. StemExpress, a supplier of biological specimens mostly stem cells for research, has "unequivocally" denied O'Donnell's allegation, stating that the video is "deceptively edited and falsely worded to suggest impropriety or illegality where none exists". Eric Ferrero, vice president of communication for the PPFA, noted that O'Donnell "has never worked for Planned Parenthood", and called
John O'Bannon Says "some Planned Parenthood chapters have been selling the body parts of aborted fetuses for profit. [SEP] Matt Bevin // would be "bad for Conway". After the anti-abortion organization Center for Medical Progress released series of videos purporting to show Planned Parenthood representatives illegally negotiating the sale of body parts from aborted fetuses, Bevin pledged that, "As governor, I will direct my secretary of the Cabinet for Health and Family Services not to distribute federal taxpayer dollars from that department to Planned Parenthood clinics. Federal taxpayer dollars appropriated to Planned Parenthood flow through the governor's administration. As governor, I will prevent those dollars from being distributed, and order them returned to the federal government." Investigations into the Planned Parenthood controversy
John O'Bannon Says "some Planned Parenthood chapters have been selling the body parts of aborted fetuses for profit. [SEP] Planned Parenthood 2015 undercover videos controversy // doctors for yearsin their agenda to ban abortion completelyare not 'documenting' misdeeds; they are trying to create them, quite unsuccessfully." In response to Planned Parenthood, CMP stated that "we look forward to showing the public more clear evidence that Planned Parenthood routinely profits from the sale of baby parts and changes the abortion procedures it uses on pregnant women in order to do so". Responding to the videos and to CMP's claims, three different Congressional committees, and officials in a number of states, launched investigations into Planned Parenthood's tissue collection activities. One Congressional committee asked to interview the filmed representatives
John O'Bannon Says "some Planned Parenthood chapters have been selling the body parts of aborted fetuses for profit. [SEP] Planned Parenthood 2015 undercover videos controversy // pathology lab at a Planned Parenthood clinic, her supervisor told her that they would procure a brain from a well preserved fetus. O'Donnell said: "I'm sitting here looking at this fetus, and its heart is beating, and I don't know what to think." "The New York Times" reported that "while the authenticity of the videos remains a subject of debate, Mrs. Fiorina appears to have exaggerated their contents", and "PolitiFact.com" rated Fiorina's statement "mostly false". Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton, who "staunchly defended" the organization, said that the videos were "disturbing" and called for a national investigation into the sale
John O'Bannon Says "some Planned Parenthood chapters have been selling the body parts of aborted fetuses for profit. [SEP] Center for Medical Progress // ‘baby parts'". When the full, unedited, videos became available, they instead showed "a Planned Parenthood executive repeatedly saying its clinics want to cover their costs, not make money, when donating fetal tissue from abortions for scientific research." According to the lawyer for Planned Parenthood, Roger K. Evans, Biomax proposed “sham procurement contracts,” offering 1,600 for liver and thymus fetal tissues. The videos and allegations attracted widespread media coverage, and re-invigorated the long-term American political abortion debate. Five separate congressional investigations of Planned Parenthood were launched as a result of the videos. A bill to defund Planned Parenthood was proposed, but
Miscellany Blue Says a "lawmaker seeks to defund Planned Parenthood for ‘cutting children into small pieces.’ [SEP] Matt Bevin // would be "bad for Conway". After the anti-abortion organization Center for Medical Progress released series of videos purporting to show Planned Parenthood representatives illegally negotiating the sale of body parts from aborted fetuses, Bevin pledged that, "As governor, I will direct my secretary of the Cabinet for Health and Family Services not to distribute federal taxpayer dollars from that department to Planned Parenthood clinics. Federal taxpayer dollars appropriated to Planned Parenthood flow through the governor's administration. As governor, I will prevent those dollars from being distributed, and order them returned to the federal government." Investigations into the Planned Parenthood controversy
Miscellany Blue Says a "lawmaker seeks to defund Planned Parenthood for ‘cutting children into small pieces.’ [SEP] Planned Parenthood 2015 undercover videos controversy // not expected to pass in the Senate and President Obama has stated he would veto legislation to defund Planned Parenthood. Some have raised the issue that this kind of congressional vote could violate the United States Constitution, which prohibits bills of attainder, which refers to lawmakers punishing an individual or organization based on alleged infractions without a finding of guilt by a court. On October 7, 2015, The U.S. House of Representatives created the House Select Investigative Panel on Infant Lives led by Marsha Blackburn. The Panel states that its mission "is to gather information and get the facts about
Miscellany Blue Says a "lawmaker seeks to defund Planned Parenthood for ‘cutting children into small pieces.’ [SEP] War on Women // she called "vicious and inappropriate". Several Democrats used the phrase "War on Women" to criticize the Republican Party after House Republicans passed legislation to cut off funding for Planned Parenthood in February 2011. Texas, Indiana and Kansas have passed legislation in an effort to defund the organization. Arizona, Ohio and New Hampshire are considering similar legislation. In Texas, lawmakers reduced funds for family planning from $111M to $37M. The future of the Women's Health Program in Texas, which receives 90% of its funding from the federal government, is unclear. The Indiana legislature passed a bill restricting Medicaid funds for Planned
Miscellany Blue Says a "lawmaker seeks to defund Planned Parenthood for ‘cutting children into small pieces.’ [SEP] John W. deGravelles // Mike Reed said the state would appeal deGravelles' ruling: "Planned Parenthood is engaging in classic misdirection regarding the millions they have [re]paid in Medicaid fraud and their own admissions in the baby parts trafficking videos. ... Instead of going through the same administrative review as any other Medicaid provider, they are running to the federal courts and asking for special treatment." In January 2016, deGravelles declared unconstitutional a Louisiana state law which would have required abortion clinics to meet health and safety standards. He was to have held a conference on January 29 to consider whether the injunction to block
Miscellany Blue Says a "lawmaker seeks to defund Planned Parenthood for ‘cutting children into small pieces.’ [SEP] Susan B. Anthony List // priority as ending abortion rather than helping women prevent unwanted pregnancies. In March 2011, the SBA List teamed with Live Action for a bus tour through 13 congressional districts either thanking or condemning their representatives for their votes to defund Planned Parenthood of tax dollars in the Pence Amendment. In response, Planned Parenthood launched its own tour to follow the SBA List bus. The SBA List also bought $200,000 in radio and television ads backing six Republicans who voted to defund Planned Parenthood in response to a $200,000 ad buy by Planned Parenthood against the Pence Amendment. In July 2011,
Miscellany Blue Says a "lawmaker seeks to defund Planned Parenthood for ‘cutting children into small pieces.’ [SEP] Planned Parenthood 2015 undercover videos controversy // of aborted fetal tissue. The White House said it would oppose any congressional attempts to defund Planned Parenthood. Louisiana Governor Bobby Jindal announced, on August 3, 2015, that the Louisiana Department of Health and Hospitals was terminating its contract with Planned Parenthood, which provides the organization with state Medicaid funds. In court filings, the Justice Department argued that Louisiana's action violates federal law by denying Medicaid patients the choice of their healthcare providers. Also noted, neither of the two Louisiana clinics provide abortion services. The states of Alabama, New Hampshire, and Utah also cut their respective funding to Planned Parenthood
Miscellany Blue Says a "lawmaker seeks to defund Planned Parenthood for ‘cutting children into small pieces.’ [SEP] Planned Parenthood // was completely or partially defunded. In August 2015, Louisiana Governor Bobby Jindal attempted to end Louisiana's contract with Planned Parenthood to treat Medicaid patients at a time when there was an epidemic of sexually transmitted diseases in Louisiana. Planned Parenthood and three patients sued the state of Louisiana, with the United States Department of Justice siding with Planned Parenthood. On February 2, 2016, the U.S. House failed to override President Obama's veto of (Restoring Americans' Healthcare Freedom Reconciliation Act of 2015) which would have prohibited Planned Parenthood from receiving any federal Medicaid funds for one year. Late in 2016, the
Miscellany Blue Says a "lawmaker seeks to defund Planned Parenthood for ‘cutting children into small pieces.’ [SEP] Planned Parenthood 2015 undercover videos controversy // tissues and organs by Planned Parenthood, and at least one committee committed to scheduling a hearing. Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid has said that Planned Parenthood's practices "should be looked into." On August 3, 2015, the legislation failed to pass in the Senate with 53 supporting discontinuing funding and 46 opposed. This was seven votes short of the 60 needed to pass the bill. On September 18, 2015, the U.S. House of Representatives voted 241187 to defund Planned Parenthood for one year, allowing time to investigate alleged wrongdoing by Planned Parenthood. The vote is largely symbolic because the bill is
Miscellany Blue Says a "lawmaker seeks to defund Planned Parenthood for ‘cutting children into small pieces.’ [SEP] Planned Parenthood // medical records in an investigation of possible child abuse. In 2005, Planned Parenthood Minnesota, North Dakota, and South Dakota was fined for violating a Minnesota state parental consent law. In 2012, a Texas state court judge, Gary Harger, denied Planned Parenthood request for a temporary restraining order against the State of Texas, concluding that the State may exclude otherwise qualified doctors and clinics from receiving state funding if the doctors or clinics advocate for abortion rights. In the 1920s, various theories of eugenics were popular among intellectuals in the U.S. In her campaign to promote birth control, Sanger teamed with
Miscellany Blue Says a "lawmaker seeks to defund Planned Parenthood for ‘cutting children into small pieces.’ [SEP] Joe Donnelly // for a 20-week abortion ban and co-sponsored a bill that would prohibit transporting a minor across state lines for an abortion. In 2011, he co-sponsored HR 3, the No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act. He voted to defund Planned Parenthood before 2015, but has since voted in support of Planned Parenthood. In August 2015, his campaign treasurer, Kathy Davis, who had worked on a volunteer basis for four years, resigned from his campaign because he voted to defund Planned Parenthood after videos surfaced of Planned Parenthood officials discussing fetal tissue donations. He was one of only two Democratic Senators who
Aveo Oncology to end breast cancer study due to low enrollment. [SEP] Avera Health // protocol for women age 41 and over with early stage breast cancer that delivers electron-based intraoperative radiation therapy (IORT) at the time of lumpectomy followed by three weeks of external beam radiation therapy, shortening follow-up external beam radiation therapy by three weeks. A new protocol is testing one-time IORT treatment for patients age 60 and over, eliminating the need for additional radiation. Avera is home to the region’s longest standing kidney transplant program, established in 1993, in addition to pancreas and liver transplant. In 1996, Avera began the region’s only Bone Marrow Transplant program, providing both allogeneic and autologous stem
Aveo Oncology to end breast cancer study due to low enrollment. [SEP] Cancer prevention // - Reagan signs Medicare Catastrophic Coverage Act (mammography screenings) 1989 - MB-CCOP (minority-based community clinical oncology program) In the 1990s, many chemopreventative clinical trials began recruiting. Often, these studies lasted for more than a decade, so their results would be released in the early 2000s. 1991 - Chemoprevention (synthetic and natural) studies, DCPC + Produce for Better Health Foundation begins 5-A-Day message (fruit and veggie daily servings), ASSIST (smoking) initiative 1992 - Breast Cancer Prevention Trial (BCPT) 1993 - NCI mammography guidelines are dropped (controversy?), prostate lung colorectal, and ovarian cancer screening trial begins (PLCO), FOBT test for CRC mortality,
Aveo Oncology to end breast cancer study due to low enrollment. [SEP] Cancer prevention // CAPS (colorectal adenoma prevention), enrollment for prostate cancer trial, NCI international breast cancer screening workshop 1994 - ATBC results show causal relationship between beta-carotene and lung cancer incidence in male Fins 1996 - ASCUS/LSIL Triage Study (HPV testing) 1997 - DCP and DCCPS splits from DCPC 1998 - Tamoxifen decreases breast cancer (Fisher?) 1999 - EDRN (early detection research network) and RAPID (access to prevention) established 1999 - Tamoxifen and raloxifene (STAR) clinical trials began, APC (adenoma celecoxib trial) Due to technological advancements, improved detection of biomarkers, and increased public and governmental support for cancer prevention research, the 21st century
Aveo Oncology to end breast cancer study due to low enrollment. [SEP] Study of Tamoxifen and Raloxifene // cancer. Study of Tamoxifen and Raloxifene The Study of Tamoxifen and Raloxifene (STAR) is a clinical trial designed determine how the drug raloxifene compares with the drug tamoxifen in reducing the incidence of breast cancer in women who are at increased risk of the disease. One of the largest breast cancer prevention studies ever, it included 22,000 women in 400 medical centers in the United States and Canada. The study concluded that raloxifene caused fewer side-effects and less endometrial cancer than tamoxifen. Raloxifene was found to be more effective at preventing noninvasive breast cancer but less effective at preventing invasive
Aveo Oncology to end breast cancer study due to low enrollment. [SEP] Study of Tamoxifen and Raloxifene // Study of Tamoxifen and Raloxifene The Study of Tamoxifen and Raloxifene (STAR) is a clinical trial designed determine how the drug raloxifene compares with the drug tamoxifen in reducing the incidence of breast cancer in women who are at increased risk of the disease. One of the largest breast cancer prevention studies ever, it included 22,000 women in 400 medical centers in the United States and Canada. The study concluded that raloxifene caused fewer side-effects and less endometrial cancer than tamoxifen. Raloxifene was found to be more effective at preventing noninvasive breast cancer but less effective at preventing invasive breast
Aveo Oncology to end breast cancer study due to low enrollment. [SEP] Talazoparib // to expand their global oncology franchise. Medivation acquired talazoparib for $410 million with additional payments of up to $160 million in royalties and milestones. Under this agreement, Medivation assumed all financial responsibilities for the continued development, regulatory, and commercialization of talazoparib. As of January 2016, talazoparib is in 14 active clinical trials including a new arm of I-SPY 2. These trials cover a variety of cancers types and combination therapies. The most notable clinical trials are the ABRAZO and EMBRACA studies. ABRAZO is a phase II study for the safety and efficacy of treatment of BRCA breast cancer patients with
Aveo Oncology to end breast cancer study due to low enrollment. [SEP] Carlos Arteaga // Science Center. Arteaga joined the faculty at Vanderbilt in 1989 and since 2002, has directed the NCI-funded Vanderbilt Breast Cancer Specialized Program of Research Excellence (SPORE). Arteaga is recognized as an expert in the field of breast cancer research. He has demonstrated the utility of targeting TGF-β, which causes cancer to spread, metastasize, and become resistant to chemotherapeutic drugs. He was involved in the development of trastuzumab in combination with chemotherapy for patients with HER2-mutated cancer. Among his current research areas is triple-negative breast cancer, for which there are no targeted therapy options. He is a principal investigator for the
Aveo Oncology to end breast cancer study due to low enrollment. [SEP] Risk factors for breast cancer // advanced stages and larger tumors) compared with cancers occurring in the placebo group, and HRT was also associated with a substantial increase in abnormal mammograms. Short-term use of hormones for treatment of menopausal symptoms appears to confer little or no breast cancer risk. A correlation was found between the use of hormonal contraceptives and subsequent reliance on hormone replacement therapy. Prophylactic oophorectomy (removal of ovaries) and mastectomy in individuals with high-risk mutations of BRCA1 or BRCA2 genes reduces the risk of developing breast cancer as well as reducing the risk of developing ovarian cancer. Because of a complex balance of
Aveo Oncology to end breast cancer study due to low enrollment. [SEP] Talazoparib // talazoparib monotherapy. This study is for patients who have failed at least two prior chemotherapy treatments for metastatic breast cancer or been previously treated with a platinum regimen. The original target enrollment for the study was 70 patients but Biomarin expanded the trial to 140 patients. The estimated completion date is December 2016. EMBRACA is a phase III study for the treatment of BRCA breast cancer patients with talazoparib. This trial is an open-label, randomized, parallel, 2-arm, multi-center comparison of talazaporib against physician’s preference for the treatment of patients with locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer. Patients must also have
Aveo Oncology to end breast cancer study due to low enrollment. [SEP] American Cancer Society Cancer Action Network // low-income women between 50 and 64 who are at most risk to breast and cervical cancer. This includes uninsured, underinsured, and racial and ethnic minority women. Services provided under NBCCEDP include clinical breast examinations, mammograms, pap smears, pelvic examinations, diagnostic testing for abnormal results, and treatment referrals. Since 1991, the program has provided more than 9.8 million breast and cervical cancer screenings, and diagnosed more than 52,694 breast cancers, 2,856 invasive cervical cancers, and 136,837 premalignant cervical lesions. ACS CAN works to reauthorize and increase funding for NBCCEDP since it has been at risk for recent budget cuts. Although NBCCEDP
Hillary Clinton Says she "called for addressing risks of derivatives, cracking down on subprime mortgages and improving financial oversight" early on in the financial crisis. [SEP] Political positions of Hillary Clinton // percent increases in monthly payments due to the effects of the crisis and of unwise initial borrowing decisions. In late 2008, Clinton voted for the Troubled Asset Relief Program which provided $350 million to purchase toxic assets and equity from financial institutions to strengthen the financial sector during the subprime mortgage crisis. Clinton claimed during a nationally televised townhall meeting in February 2016 that "You are three times more likely to be able to get a mortgage if you're a white applicant than if you're black or Hispanic, even if you have the same credentials." PolitiFact rated this claim "false,"
Hillary Clinton Says she "called for addressing risks of derivatives, cracking down on subprime mortgages and improving financial oversight" early on in the financial crisis. [SEP] Political positions of Hillary Clinton // proposed to cap the expenses that a household spends on child care by at 10 percent of a household's income. Clinton intended to accomplish the 10 percent cap with tax credits and subsidized child care. Clinton called for more robust financial regulation early on in the financial crisis of 2007–08. Clinton specifically called for regulations to crack down on financial derivatives and subprime mortgages and strengthen oversight of financial institutions and private-equity markets. In a 2007 speech, Clinton "called for major federal intervention in the market for subprime loans, arguing that 'we need to acknowledge that Wall Street has played
Hillary Clinton Says she "called for addressing risks of derivatives, cracking down on subprime mortgages and improving financial oversight" early on in the financial crisis. [SEP] Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 // piece, Senator Hillary Clinton advocated addressing the rate of mortgage defaults and foreclosures that ignited this crisis, not just bailing out Wall Street firms: "If we do not take action to address the crisis facing borrowers, we'll never solve the crisis facing lenders." She proposed a new Home Owners' Loan Corporation (HOLC), similar to that used after the Depression and which was launched in 1933. The new HOLC was to administer a national program to help homeowners refinance their mortgages. She also called for a moratorium on foreclosures and freezing of rate hikes in adjustable-rate mortgages. Barack Obama, the Democratic
Hillary Clinton Says she "called for addressing risks of derivatives, cracking down on subprime mortgages and improving financial oversight" early on in the financial crisis. [SEP] United States Senate career of Hillary Clinton // presidential campaign three weeks earlier. As the Financial crisis of 2007–2008 reached a peak with the liquidity crisis of September 2008, Clinton proposed a revival of the New Deal-era Home Owners' Loan Corporation, to help homeowners refinance their mortgages. Writing in a "Wall Street Journal" op-ed, she said that "This is a sink-or-swim moment for America. We cannot simply catch our breath. We've got to swim for the shores." Regarding the proposed bailout of United States financial system, she initially pronounced the $700 billion rescue plan flawed, but said she would support it. On October 1, 2008, she voted in
Hillary Clinton Says she "called for addressing risks of derivatives, cracking down on subprime mortgages and improving financial oversight" early on in the financial crisis. [SEP] Political positions of Hillary Clinton // (repealed in 1999) that mandated the separation of commercial and investment banks, preferring instead other tools to combat systemic risk, including "a 'risk fee' on the financial institutions with assets over $50 billion, regulations on the 'shadow banking' sector (i.e. hedge funds) and guidelines for prosecuting financial wrongdoing." Clinton has received criticism for her ties with Wall Street. Her claim in April 2016 that "I'm the only candidate in the Democratic primary, or actually on either side, who Wall Street financiers and hedge fund managers are actually running ads against," received a "Pants on Fire" rating from "PolitiFact". The fact
Hillary Clinton Says she "called for addressing risks of derivatives, cracking down on subprime mortgages and improving financial oversight" early on in the financial crisis. [SEP] Hillary Clinton 2016 presidential campaign // haven't had that, and so don't understand the value of a core, in this sense a Common Core." In a December 7, 2015 "The New York Times" article, Clinton presented her detailed plans for regulating Wall Street financial activities and related. She proposes reining in the largest institutions to limit risky behavior, appointing strong regulators, and holding executives accountable. Clinton is in favor of maintaining American influence in the Middle East. She opposes Trump's call to ban Muslims from the United States as "shameful" and "dangerous". She also claimed Trump's statement was "a reflection of much of the rest of
Hillary Clinton Says she "called for addressing risks of derivatives, cracking down on subprime mortgages and improving financial oversight" early on in the financial crisis. [SEP] Subprime mortgage crisis solutions debate // the American Enterprise Institute, a former Wall Street lawyer, Republican political figure, and longtime advocate of financial deregulation and privatization. President Barack Obama and key advisors introduced a series of regulatory proposals in June 2009. The proposals address consumer protection, executive pay, bank financial cushions or capital requirements, expanded regulation of the shadow banking system and derivatives, and enhanced authority for the Federal Reserve to safely wind-down systemically important institutions, among others. The purpose of a systemic risk regulator would be to address the failure of any entity of sufficient scale that a disorderly failure would threaten the financial system.
Hillary Clinton Says she "called for addressing risks of derivatives, cracking down on subprime mortgages and improving financial oversight" early on in the financial crisis. [SEP] Political positions of Hillary Clinton // a significant role in our current problems, and in particular the housing crisis.'" Clinton supported the subsequent Dodd–Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, a major overhaul of U.S. financial regulations enacted in the wake of the Great Recession. Several key architects and supports of the Dodd-Frank Act, including Barney Frank and Gary Gensler, are Clinton supporters who advise her on financial regulations during her 2016 campaign. Clinton has proposed to impose a tax on types of high-frequency trading that she describes as "harmful". Her official platform says, "In particular, the tax would hit HFT strategies involving
Hillary Clinton Says she "called for addressing risks of derivatives, cracking down on subprime mortgages and improving financial oversight" early on in the financial crisis. [SEP] Political positions of Hillary Clinton // excessive levels of order cancellations, which make our markets less stable and less fair." On December 7, 2015, in a "New York Times" op-ed, Clinton outlined her plans for regulating Wall Street. Clinton wrote: "As president, I would not only veto any legislation that would weaken financial reform, but I would also fight for tough new rules, stronger enforcement and more accountability that go well beyond Dodd-Frank." Clinton also called for an enhanced Volcker rule that would close "loopholes that still allow banks to make speculative gambles with taxpayer-backed deposits." Clinton does not support reinstating the Glass-Steagall Act, a law
Hillary Clinton Says she "called for addressing risks of derivatives, cracking down on subprime mortgages and improving financial oversight" early on in the financial crisis. [SEP] Wall Street reform // to the 2008 crash, and fines imposed on the banks have been only a fraction of the banks' potential gains. In addition, the banks and their lobbyists have succeeded in watering down the Dodd-Frank reform legislation, and the financial institutions that pose the greatest risk to our economy have still not devised sufficient "living wills" for winding down their operations in the event of another crisis. Secretary Hillary Clinton's more modest proposals do not go far enough. They call for a bit more oversight and a few new charges on shadow banking activity, but they leave intact the titanic financial
North Carolina fair bans mist fans as health measure. [SEP] North Carolina State Fair // display composed of about 100,000 energy-efficient LED lights. In 2008, Susan Ogden of Raleigh helped name the Pinfarri RC-48 roller coaster when it premiered on the midway. The Toxic Shock is a blue and orange roller coaster that is known for twists and banked curves. The train makes a loose turn out of the station and up a steep lift hill. It then proceeds down a banked twisting drop and into the first of three over-banked curves. At the base of the third over-banked curve, the track stays moderately banked and around a 3.0 g helix. The track levels and
North Carolina fair bans mist fans as health measure. [SEP] Mineral oil // safety concerns due to inks. People can be exposed to mineral oil mist in the workplace by breathing it in, skin contact, or eye contact. In the United States, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration has set the legal limit for mineral oil mist exposure in the workplace as 5 mg/m over an 8-hour workday. The National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health has set a recommended exposure limit of 5 mg/m over an 8-hour workday and 10 mg/m short-term exposure. Levels of 2500 mg/m and higher are indicated as immediately dangerous to life and health. However, current toxicological data
North Carolina fair bans mist fans as health measure. [SEP] North Carolina State Fair // oasis on the fairgrounds features winding pathways through beautiful gardens grown by local organizations. More than 90 demonstrations are held throughout the fair, with experts offering advice on such topics as pumpkin carving, flower arranging and proper plant care. If you want the best, it's "Got to Be NC." In this exhibit, visitors can discover and sample food products from across North Carolina. More than 20 local vendors participate in the exhibit throughout the course of the fair. Heritage Circle is a step back in time. There is plenty of activity at the circle, from the crew maintaining the tobacco
North Carolina fair bans mist fans as health measure. [SEP] Evaporative cooler // that has an orifice of about 5 micrometres, thereby producing a micro-fine mist. The water droplets that create the mist are so small that they instantly flash-evaporate. Flash evaporation can reduce the surrounding air temperature by as much as 35 °F (20 °C) in just seconds. For patio systems, it is ideal to mount the mist line approximately 8 to 10 feet (2.4 to 3.0 m) above the ground for optimum cooling. Misting is used for applications such as flowerbeds, pets, livestock, kennels, insect control, odor control, zoos, veterinary clinics, cooling of produce, and greenhouses. A misting fan is similar
North Carolina fair bans mist fans as health measure. [SEP] Vegetable oil // supermarket shelves go through a deodorization stage that removes trace amounts of odors and flavors, and lightens the color of the oil. People can breathe in vegetable oil mist in the workplace. The U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) has set the legal limit (permissible exposure limit) for vegetable oil mist exposure in the workplace as 15 mg/m total exposure and 5 mg/m respiratory exposure over an 8-hour workday. The U.S. National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) has set a recommended exposure limit (REL) of 10 mg/m total exposure and 5 mg/m respiratory exposure over an 8-hour
North Carolina fair bans mist fans as health measure. [SEP] Museum of Life and Science // sailboat pond where visitors can sail remote controlled sailboats. Kiosks throughout the area allow visitors to listen to audio tracks of narratives, poems, and stories about the wind. Catch the Wind also houses the Into the Mist exhibit that features artificial turf areas that fill with mist at the press of a button. This area is popular during the hot North Carolina summers as children can run through the cool mist. Many guests choose to come dressed in bathing suits or waterproof shoes. Long a local favorite, the original "Prehistoric Trail" featured a number of life-size plaster amphibians, reptiles and
North Carolina fair bans mist fans as health measure. [SEP] North Carolina State Fair // Rascal Flatts, Clay Aiken, Edwin McCain, Third Day, Blake Shelton, Earl Scruggs, Clay Walker, Brandy Clark, Vanilla Ice, Chris Brown, Casting Crowns, Lady Antebellum, Jason Aldean, Kellie Pickler, Darius Rucker, Newsboys, Bruce Springsteen, The Everly Brothers, and Scotty McCreery. Fireworks are shot off nightly at 9:45 p.m. For years, the fireworks were shot off from the lake across from Gate 8. In 2011, the fireworks were shot off from a new location across the street from the fairgrounds. The new location offers additional safety, frees traffic congestion and offers a spectacular panoramic view above the Midway. The N.C. State Fair
North Carolina fair bans mist fans as health measure. [SEP] North Carolina State Fair // keep passengers in their seat. American Sky Lifts has a 10-year lease to have the lift on the fairgrounds with an option for a 10-year renewal. North Carolina State Fair The North Carolina State Fair is an annual fair and agricultural exposition held in Raleigh, North Carolina, and organized by the North Carolina Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services. The North Carolina State Fair was first held by the North Carolina State Agricultural Society at a site east of Raleigh in 1853. The event has been held at three different locations since, finding its current home in 1928. It has
North Carolina fair bans mist fans as health measure. [SEP] North Carolina State Fair // barn during the fair to the craftsmen demonstrating their traditional methods of woodcarving, blacksmithing and chair-building. Visitors can also enjoy the taste of homemade ice cream, apple cider or a hush puppy from the Old Grist Mill as they listen to engaging stories or the sweet melodies from the Bluegrass Stage. Fairgoers can see cattle, sheep, goats, swine and learn more about the various breeds of farm animals raised in North Carolina. More than 60 animals are on display, including the grand and reserve champions from the junior market steer, lamb, goat, turkey and barrow shows. One of the N.C.
North Carolina fair bans mist fans as health measure. [SEP] North Carolina State Fair // State Fair's most popular and enduring attractions, the Village of Yesteryear features more than 75 artists and crafters creating, displaying and selling time-honored handmade crafts. Village crafters spin wool into yarn, weave yarn into cloth, make rugs, turn pottery, carve wooden bowls and utensils, make split-oak baskets and more. Native American crafts such as hand-coiled pottery, beadwork and stone carving are also featured. Kids and kids-at-heart can even make their own dolls or stuffed toy to take home. Division I competitions cover a variety of general topics including wine, cheese and butter, agronomy, forage crops, flower show, horticulture, arts and
For a full-body workout, drumming is the novelty to beat. [SEP] Heavy metal drumming // exceptional amount of endurance", and drummers have to develop "considerable speed, coordination, and dexterity ... to play the intricate patterns" used in metal. A characteristic metal drumming technique is the cymbal choke, which consists of striking a cymbal and then immediately silencing it by grabbing it with the other hand (or, in some cases, the same striking hand), producing a burst of sound. The metal drum setup is generally much larger than those employed in other forms of rock music. Black metal, death metal and some "mainstream metal" bands "all depend upon double-kicks and blast beats". The rhythm in metal
For a full-body workout, drumming is the novelty to beat. [SEP] Drumming (Reich) // up, two of the players phase to where they are playing the same pattern one quarter-note apart from each other, and the other bongo players play resulting patterns that can be heard as a result of the combination of the phased patterns. The rest of the piece continues to use the techniques of beat/rest substitution, phasing, and resultant patterns through its four movements. The transitions consist as follows: Choreographers such as Laura Dean, Anne Teresa De Keersmaeker, and Ginette Laurin have collaborated on dance performances with Reich on "Drumming". Drumming (Reich) Drumming is a piece by minimalist composer Steve Reich,
For a full-body workout, drumming is the novelty to beat. [SEP] World's Fastest Drummer // that musical instruments should not be used as tools for sport and depreciate musicality, while defenders cite the quest for technical excellence, and its innocence as a non-musical exercise. As the argument has become more complex, hundreds of WFD hopefuls issue unsubstantiated Drumometer videos purporting to be world records. Another controversy centered around implementation of a hands technique called "push-pull" that allowed competitors to score more than one beat with a single motion but was neither a double stroke or buzz roll. In 2011 it was determined that push-pull qualified as a hybrid single stroke but requiring a separate category
For a full-body workout, drumming is the novelty to beat. [SEP] Latin Jam Workout // cool-down. Latin Jam classes use an exclusive musical mix. The warm-up features fast-paced pop and techno beats to raise body temperature and heart rate, while the core part of the class features a mix of fast and slow rhythms to combine aerobic and resistance training. Latin Jam Workout was created by JP Santana in Los Angeles, in 2009. Since then, this fitness program has been introduced to Northern California, Utah, Colorado and Nevada. Santana created this concept to provide a complete body work-out designed to assist with weight loss with the entertainment of Latin Music that has proven to be
For a full-body workout, drumming is the novelty to beat. [SEP] Snare drum // jazz music. So-called "ghost notes" are very light "filler notes" played in between the backbeats in genres such as funk and rhythm and blues. The iconic drum roll is produced by alternately bouncing the sticks on the drum head, striving for a controlled rebound. A similar effect can be obtained by playing alternating double strokes on the drum, creating a double stroke roll, or very fast single strokes, creating a single stroke roll. The snares are a fundamental ingredient in the pressed (buzz) drum roll, as they help to blend together distinct strokes that are then perceived as a single,
For a full-body workout, drumming is the novelty to beat. [SEP] Heel-toe technique // Heel-toe technique Heel-toe technique is a foot technique that drummers use to be able to play single strokes or double strokes on the bass drum, hi-hat, or other pedals. The heel-toe foot technique was pioneered by drummers of the big band era. The application most commonly used for this technique at that time was a rocking motion that assisted the drummer in keeping solid time on the hi-hat, while simultaneously playing timpani type floor tom rhythms or swinging the ride cymbal. Early video footage of Buddy Rich, along with fellow Big band drummers are seen utilizing this technique in a
For a full-body workout, drumming is the novelty to beat. [SEP] Heavy metal music // intricate patterns" used in heavy metal. A characteristic metal drumming technique is the cymbal choke, which consists of striking a cymbal and then immediately silencing it by grabbing it with the other hand (or, in some cases, the same striking hand), producing a burst of sound. The metal drum setup is generally much larger than those employed in other forms of rock music. Black metal, death metal and some "mainstream metal" bands "all depend upon double-kicks and blast beats". In live performance, loudness—an "onslaught of sound", in sociologist Deena Weinstein's description—is considered vital. In his book "Metalheads", psychologist Jeffrey Arnett
For a full-body workout, drumming is the novelty to beat. [SEP] Drum roll // freehand technique is a unique method used by percussion to produce a fast drum roll with a single hand. It is based around using the rim of a snare drum as the fulcrum point of the drumstick. By doing this, a drummer can produce two strikes of the drum with each full motion (one on the down stroke, and one on the upstroke). The technique is also known amongst many drummers as the gravity blast. In most recent music, all three types of rolls are notated as tremolos, with slashes through the note stem: For example: A sixteenth note with
For a full-body workout, drumming is the novelty to beat. [SEP] World's Fastest Drummer // created new classes of speed drumming: fastest feet (for two-footed bass drumming), bare hands, and tag team, among others. Drumometer orders then followed, and the race to best Rabb's feats began. Music genres - Death metal, Country, Jazz, Rock as well as Drum Corps have since battled for dominance in the various categories. In 2002, WFD world championships became a biannual affair (winter and summer), and were permanently stationed at NAMM conventions beginning in 2003. Early stars of the event in addition to Rabb included a veteran jazz drummer named Art Verdi, the first person to break 1100 single strokes
For a full-body workout, drumming is the novelty to beat. [SEP] Blast beat // on the kick drum can be played either with one foot only or by alternating both feet, referred to as a "two-foot" or "economy" blast. As blast beats have evolved, different types and interpretations have emerged. There are four main variations of the blast beat: the traditional blast, the bomb blast, the hammer blast and the freehand blast. The traditional blast beat is a single-stroke roll alternating between the snare drum and kick drum. The ride hand is usually playing in unison with the kick drum. The traditional blast beat is structurally very similar to the skank beat, which can
The GOP health bill "would once again allow being a rape or domestic violence victim to be a pre-existing condition. [SEP] Pre-existing condition // to afford insurance in the first place. The "San Francisco Chronicle" has reported that "[c]osts for those with coverage could go up because people in poor health who'd been shut out of the insurance pool would now be included... they would get medical care they could not access before." Senator Mike Enzi, a Republican from Wyoming, has voted to allow insurance companies to consider domestic violence as a pre-existing condition and supported his vote by saying that covering such people could raise insurance premiums to the point where it would preclude others from buying it. He has remarked that "If
The GOP health bill "would once again allow being a rape or domestic violence victim to be a pre-existing condition. [SEP] War on Women // Under the language of the bill, only cases of "forcible rape" or child sexual abuse would have qualified. Political activist groups Moveon.org and Emily's List charged that this constituted a Republican attempt to "redefine rape". In 2014, Michigan law prohibited all public and most private insurers from covering abortions including in cases of rape and incest. It requires women to buy separate insurance and has been called "rape insurance" by opponents because of the possibility that women will need to have separate insurance for an abortion resulting from rape. Unsuccessful Missouri Republican candidate to the U.S. Senate Todd Akin made
The GOP health bill "would once again allow being a rape or domestic violence victim to be a pre-existing condition. [SEP] Violence Against Women Act // which requires provision of reproductive health services to victims of sex trafficking. On February 28, 2013, in a 286–138 vote, the House passed the Senate's all-inclusive version of the bill. House Republicans had previously hoped to pass their own version of the measure—one that substantially weakened the bill's protections for certain categories. The stripped down version, which allowed only limited protection for LGBT and Native Americans, was rejected 257 to 166. The renewed act expanded federal protections to gay, lesbian, and transgender individuals, Native Americans and immigrants. On March 7, 2013, President Barack Obama signed the Violence Against Women Reauthorization
The GOP health bill "would once again allow being a rape or domestic violence victim to be a pre-existing condition. [SEP] Rape in the United States // been raped 17 years before, an insurance company refused to pay for her rape exam and also refused to pay for therapy or medication for trauma, because she "had been raped before" – indicating a preexisting condition. Some insurance companies have allegedly denied sexual-assault victims mental-health treatment, stating that the service is not medically necessary. The 2005 Violence Against Women Act requires states to ensure that victims receive access to a forensic examination free of charge regardless of whether the victim chooses to report a sexual assault to law enforcement or cooperate with the criminal-justice system. All states must comply
The GOP health bill "would once again allow being a rape or domestic violence victim to be a pre-existing condition. [SEP] No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act // have sex against her will, and that is whether she is conscious, unconscious, mentally stable, not mentally stable," the four-term congresswoman added." Critics insist that HR 3 would directly diminish the rights of women who have fallen victim to rapes that are not considered "forcible" by the bill, as well as increase the danger of these types of sexual abuse occurring. TalkingPointsMemo reported, "In an interview with the anti-abortion site LifeNews, Douglas Johnson, the legislative director for the National Right to Life Committee, admits the language in the House's No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act "would not allow general federal
The GOP health bill "would once again allow being a rape or domestic violence victim to be a pre-existing condition. [SEP] No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act // for Abortion Act." 'It is absolutely outrageous,' Wasserman Schultz said in an exclusive interview late Monday afternoon. "I consider the proposal of this bill a violent act against women..." She continued, "It really is -- to suggest that there is some kind of rape that would be okay to force a woman to carry the resulting pregnancy to term, and abandon the principle that has been long held, an exception that has been settled for 30 years, is to me a violent act against women in and of itself," Wasserman Schultz said." "Rape is when a woman is forced to
The GOP health bill "would once again allow being a rape or domestic violence victim to be a pre-existing condition. [SEP] Political positions of Paul Ryan // 227 House co-sponsors of the 2011 No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act bill that would have limited funding for federally funded abortions to victims of "forcible rape". "Forcible rape" was not defined in the bill, which critics said would result in excluding date rape, statutory rape, or other situations where the victim had diminished mental capacity. The language was removed from the bill before the House passed it; the Senate did not vote on the bill. The National Right to Life Committee has consistently given Ryan a "100 percent pro-life voting record" since he took office in 1999. In 2012
The GOP health bill "would once again allow being a rape or domestic violence victim to be a pre-existing condition. [SEP] Violence Against Women Act // only 21% of citizens in the United States. In April 2012, the Senate voted to reauthorize the Violence Against Women Act, and the House subsequently passed its own measure (omitting provisions of the Senate bill that would protect gays, Native Americans living in reservations, and immigrants who are victims of domestic violence). Reconciliation of the two bills was stymied by procedural measures, leaving the re-authorization in question. The Senate's 2012 re-authorization of VAWA was not brought up for a vote in the House. In 2013, the question of jurisdiction over offenses in Indian country continued to be at issue over
The GOP health bill "would once again allow being a rape or domestic violence victim to be a pre-existing condition. [SEP] War on Women // Chambliss of Georgia was criticized for saying that part of the cause of the sexual assault was young officers' "hormone level created by nature". The renewal of the Violence Against Women Act, which provides for community violence prevention programs and battered women's shelters, was fiercely opposed by conservative Republicans in 2012. The Act was originally passed in 1994 and has been reauthorized by Congress twice. Senate Minority leader Mitch McConnell, who has previously voted against renewal of the Act, said the bill was a distraction from a small business bill. However, in 2013 a strengthened version of the act was
The GOP health bill "would once again allow being a rape or domestic violence victim to be a pre-existing condition. [SEP] Violence Against Women Act // Act of 2013. The U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops opposed portions of the act that addressed the categories "sexual orientation" and "gender identity", calling the sections unnecessary to achieve equal protection of all persons. 138 House Republicans voted against the version of the act that became law. However, several, including Steve King (R-Iowa), Bill Johnson (R-Ohio), Tim Walberg (R-Michigan), Vicky Hartzler (R-Missouri), Keith Rothfus (R-Pennsylvania), and Tim Murphy (R-Pennsylvania), claimed to have voted in favor of the act. Some have called this claim disingenuous because the group only voted in favor of a GOP proposed alternative version of the bill
Within the three miles surrounding the University Circle area, infant mortality exceeds some Third World countries. [SEP] University Circle // jobs in a variety of fields, including averaging 1,000 new jobs per year since 2005. Nearby attractions draw approximately 2.5 million visitors annually. As the neighborhood's name implies, higher learning is a major part of the culture of University Circle, with over 13,000 undergraduate, graduate, and professional students attending the area's various institutions. University Circle Inc., a not-for-profit corporation established in 1957, serves as the neighborhood chamber of commerce, providing many administrative and quasi-governmental functions for the area, including security, transportation administration, and marketing. University Circle has its own full-service police department to provide security and patrol the area. Forbes
Within the three miles surrounding the University Circle area, infant mortality exceeds some Third World countries. [SEP] Infant mortality // contribute to negative birth outcomes throughout a 37-county area. An additional program that aims to reduce infant mortality is the "Best Babies Zone" (BBZ) based at the University of California, Berkeley. The BBZ uses the life course approach to address the structural causes of poor birth outcomes and toxic stress in three U.S. neighborhoods. By employing community-generated solutions, the Best Babies Zone's ultimate goal is to achieve health equity in communities that are disproportionately impacted by infant death. The infant mortality rate correlates very strongly with, and is among the best predictors of, state failure. IMR is therefore also a
Within the three miles surrounding the University Circle area, infant mortality exceeds some Third World countries. [SEP] Gaza Strip // the college had a student population of 6,000 in eight departments offering over 40 majors. In Gaza, there are hospitals and additional healthcare facilities. Because of the high number of young people the mortality rate is one of the lowest in the world, at 0.315% per year. The infant mortality rate is ranked 105th highest out of 224 countries and territories, at 16.55 deaths per 1,000 births. The Gaza Strip places 24th out of 135 countries according to Human Poverty Index. A study carried out by Johns Hopkins University (U.S.) and Al-Quds University (in Abu Dis) for CARE International in
Within the three miles surrounding the University Circle area, infant mortality exceeds some Third World countries. [SEP] University Circle // University Circle University Circle is a district in the neighborhood of University on the east side of Cleveland, Ohio. One of America's densest concentrations of cultural attractions and performing arts venues, it includes such world-class institutions as the Cleveland Museum of Art; Severance Hall, home to the Cleveland Orchestra; the Cleveland Institute of Art; Case Western Reserve University; the Cleveland Institute of Music; the Museum of Contemporary Art Cleveland; the Cleveland Botanical Garden; historic Lake View Cemetery; the Cleveland Museum of Natural History; and University Hospitals/Case Medical Center. The area is also known as "The Circle" to locals. Encompassing approximately
Within the three miles surrounding the University Circle area, infant mortality exceeds some Third World countries. [SEP] University Circle // the University neighborhood is bordered to the north by the Glenville neighborhood, to the south by the Buckeye-Shaker neighborhood, to the west and southwest by the neighborhoods of Hough and Fairfax (also known as Midtown) and to the east by the cities of East Cleveland and Cleveland Heights. University Circle is member of the Global Cultural Districts Network. While the population of University Circle ranks on the lower end of Cleveland's 36 defined Statistical Planning Areas (SPAs), it ranks near the top in importance to the city's economic sector. Neighborhood businesses and institutions provide the city with more than 30,000
Within the three miles surrounding the University Circle area, infant mortality exceeds some Third World countries. [SEP] One University Circle // One University Circle One University Circle is a mixed-used high rise in the University Circle district of Cleveland. It is located just down the block from the Cleveland Clinic as well as Case Western Reserve University on Euclid Avenue and seeks to house those working at these two institutions. Being constructed on the former location of the Children's Museum of Cleveland, the project is the first high-rise apartment building completed in the city in over 40 years. It houses 280 apartments, including penthouse apartments, a parking garage, concierge services, a fitness center, an outdoor swimming pool and a sky lounge
Within the three miles surrounding the University Circle area, infant mortality exceeds some Third World countries. [SEP] Public health problems in the Aral Sea region // be passed down through breast feeding and "in a number of areas the physicians recommend against breast feeding babies, as the nursing mothers milk is toxic." As seen in Table 1, other surrounding countries and areas have also experienced an increase in infant mortality rates. Although there are many other factors that contribute to infant mortality rates, the environmental state in the area has a definite influence on increasing rates. When compared with developed countries these rates can illustrate differences in health care and access to health care between the areas. In Turkmenistan alone, 50% of all reported illnesses in
Within the three miles surrounding the University Circle area, infant mortality exceeds some Third World countries. [SEP] Abhay and Rani Bang // plan to reduce infant mortality. This field trial showed that newborn care can be brought out of the confines of big hospitals and high tech units and be so simplified that it can be provided in any village in any home. After this research the global newborn care has never been the same. This approach, which brought down the infant mortality rate in rural Gadchiroli from 121 per 1000 live births to 30, was honoured by The Lancet in 2005 as one of the Vintage Papers. The editor and the historian of the journal considered Bang's paper on newborn care
Within the three miles surrounding the University Circle area, infant mortality exceeds some Third World countries. [SEP] Preventive healthcare // it is still far from the fourth Millennium Development Goal to decrease child mortality by two-thirds by the year 2015. Of these deaths, about 64% were due to infection (including diarrhea, pneumonia, and malaria). About 40% of these deaths occurred in neonates (children ages 1–28 days) due to pre-term birth complications. The highest number of child deaths occurred in Africa and Southeast Asia. In Africa, almost no progress has been made in reducing neonatal death since 1990. India, Nigeria, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Pakistan, and China contributed to almost 50% of global child deaths in 2010. Targeting efforts in
Within the three miles surrounding the University Circle area, infant mortality exceeds some Third World countries. [SEP] University Circle // Circle in 1918. In 1920, The Alabama Crimson Tide played their first ever game in the north at Van Horn Field against Case. The arrival of University Hospitals in 1931 (founded in 1866) led to health care becoming another center of innovation in University Circle. Less than away from University Hospitals, the Cleveland Clinic had been serving its patients since 1921. Also in 1931 Severance Hall, home of the Cleveland Orchestra, was constructed at the corner of Euclid and East Boulevard. By 1950, 34 institutions had chosen University Circle as their home. In 1967, Case School of Applied Science and
“The flu killed 80,000 people in the U.S. last year” [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic // It is often stated that about 36,000 die from the seasonal flu in the U.S. each year, and this is frequently understood as an indication that the H1N1 strain was not as severe as seasonal influenza. The 36,000 estimate was presented in a 2003 study by CDC scientists published in the "Journal of the American Medical Association" but only refers to a period from 1990–91 through 1998–99. During those years, the number of estimated deaths ranged from 17,000 to 52,000, with an average of about 36,000. The "JAMA" study also looked at seasonal influenza-associated deaths over a 23-year period, from
“The flu killed 80,000 people in the U.S. last year” [SEP] Pandemic H1N1/09 virus // virus in the US. This is sometimes compared to the 36,000 people per year who die from the "common flu", mostly in winter, although this number is an estimate. The death rate of H1N1 in the US can be calculated as less than 0.02% from November 2009 figures from the CDC, and has been explicitly calculated as 0.026% in England. Existing vaccines against seasonal flu provide no protection. Vaccines were released in North America in late October. Production may be 3 billion doses per year rather than the earlier estimate of 5 billion. On May 22, 2009, World Health Organization
“The flu killed 80,000 people in the U.S. last year” [SEP] Spanish flu // died. Influenza may have killed as many as 25 million people in its first 25 weeks. Older estimates say it killed 40–50 million people, while current estimates say 50–100 million people worldwide were killed. This pandemic has been described as "the greatest medical holocaust in history" and may have killed more people than the Black Death. It is said that this flu killed more people in 24 weeks than AIDS killed in 24 years, and more in a year than the Black Death killed in a century, although the Black Death killed a much higher percentage of the world's smaller
“The flu killed 80,000 people in the U.S. last year” [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic timeline // Islands did not report." WHO At least 12,220 deaths globally are formally confirmed. (By contrast, the WHO estimates that the seasonal flu kills from 250,000 to 300,000 people around the world each year.) Overall, the activity of the H1N1 pandemic has peaked. WHO In Geneva Dr. Margaret Chan, Director-General of the WHO, remarks in the context of the H5N1 bird flu virus that "The fact that the long overdue influenza pandemic is so moderate in its impact is probably the best health news of the decade" but that "No, the world is not ready for a pandemic to be caused
“The flu killed 80,000 people in the U.S. last year” [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic in the United States // vaccine was beginning to be widely distributed to the general public by several states. On December 23, 2009 the CDC reported a reduction of the disease by 59% percent and the disease was expected to end in the United States in January 2010. On January 15, 2010, the CDC released new estimate figures for swine flu, saying it has sickened about 55 million Americans and killed about 11,160 from April through mid-December. On February 12, 2010, the CDC released updated estimate figures for swine flu, reporting that, in total, 57 million Americans had been sickened, 257,000 had been hospitalised and
“The flu killed 80,000 people in the U.S. last year” [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic in the United States // much worse this is than seasonal flu. So far it's looking like it's not that serious. CNN stated on April 28, 2009 that there were at least 800 deaths in the U.S. due to normal influenza in each individual week between January 1 and April 18, which is higher than the combined worldwide death toll for the swine flu. As of November 19, 2009, the official death toll attributed directly to the novel H1N1 and seasonal influenza was 877. This total exceeds the 849 deaths directly attributed to seasonal influenza in 2006. Many of the other deaths commonly attributed to
“The flu killed 80,000 people in the U.S. last year” [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic in the United States // Toward the end of June 2009, the number of deaths related to the virus in the US surpassed those of all other countries as well. On June 25, the CDC released information revealing that there were more than likely over one million (1,000,000) cases of the disease in the US, most of which had not been reported or diagnosed. Deaths relating to this new strain of influenza began appearing in the US in late April, and by early June 15, states had reported fatalities related to or directly occurring from the virus. These deaths totaled at 4,000 as of November
“The flu killed 80,000 people in the U.S. last year” [SEP] Flu season // this number was actually lower in 2009. According to an article in "Clinical Infectious Diseases", published in 2011, the estimated health burden of 2009 Pandemic Influenza A (H1N1), between April 2009 to April 2010, was "approximately 60.8 million cases (range: 43.3–89.3 million), 274,304 hospitalizations (195,086–402,719), and 12,469 deaths (8,868–18,306)" "in the United States due to pH1N1." The 2012–13 flu season was particularly harsh in the United States, where the majority of states were reporting high rates of influenza-like illness. The Centers for Disease Control reported that the available flu vaccine was 60% effective. It further recommended that all persons over
“The flu killed 80,000 people in the U.S. last year” [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic // hundred times more lethal and had a case fatality rate of 2–3%. By 14 November 2009, the virus had infected one in six Americans with 200,000 hospitalisations and 10,000 deaths – as many hospitalizations and fewer deaths than in an average flu season overall, but with much higher risk for those under 50. With deaths of 1,100 children and 7,500 adults 18 to 64, these figures "are much higher than in a usual flu season". In June 2010, scientists from Hong Kong reported discovery of a new swine flu virus which is a hybrid of the pandemic H1N1 virus and
“The flu killed 80,000 people in the U.S. last year” [SEP] Influenza // Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) reported a range from a low of about 3,300 deaths to a high of 49,000 per year. Roughly three times per century, a pandemic occurs, which infects a large proportion of the world's population and can kill tens of millions of people (see pandemics section). One study estimated that if a strain with similar virulence to the 1918 influenza emerged today, it could kill between 50 and 80 million people. New influenza viruses are constantly evolving by mutation or by reassortment. Mutations can cause small changes in the hemagglutinin and neuraminidase antigens on
Therapy animals are everywhere. Proof that they help is not. [SEP] Animal-assisted therapy // a distraction method when it comes to various situations or pain, and animals can also help bring happiness, pleasure, and entertainment to the pediatric population. Animals can also help improve children's moods and reinforce positive behaviors while helping to decrease negative ones. Dogs in AAT can be an effective method to reduce pain in children as a complementary treatment. Animal-assistance programs may be useful in prisons to relieve stress of the inmates and workers, or to provide other benefits, but further study is needed to confirm the effectiveness of such programs in these settings. When elderly people are transferred to
Therapy animals are everywhere. Proof that they help is not. [SEP] Animal-assisted therapy // returning, found the child talking to the dog. Animal-assisted therapy Animal-assisted therapy (AAT) is an alternative or complementary type of therapy that involves animals as a form of treatment. The goal of AAT is to improve a patient's social, emotional, or cognitive functioning. Advocates state that animals can be useful for educational and motivational effectiveness for participants. In a variety of settings such as prisons, nursing homes, mental institutions, animals are used to assist people with different disabilities. The most commonly used types of AAT are canine-assisted therapy and equine-assisted therapy. AAT is especially helpful in reducing the symptoms of
Therapy animals are everywhere. Proof that they help is not. [SEP] Animal-assisted therapy // animal, in order to gain information. Before pet therapy can be useful, the child and the animal must first develop a sense of comfort with each other, which is easier to achieve if the child's own pet is used. The applied technique that generates the most helpful information about the victim's experience is telling the child that the animal wants to know how they are feeling or what happened. AAT can be used in children with mental health problems, can be used as a stand-alone treatment or it can be used along with conventional methods. Animals can be used as
Therapy animals are everywhere. Proof that they help is not. [SEP] Animal-assisted therapy // can benefit from animal-assisted therapy (AAT) in diverse settings around the world. Those conditions include psychological disorder, developmental disorder, dementia, cancer, chronic pain, advanced heart failure, etc. Animal-assisted therapy is commonly used for psychological disorder. Disorders such as attention deficit hyperactivity disorder(ADHD), autism spectrum disorder(ASD), post-traumatic stress disorder(PTSD), major depressive disorder (MDD) are part of psychological disorders that can benefit from animal-assisted therapy. In recent decades, an increased number of research indicates the social, psychological, and physiological benefits of animal assisted therapy in health and education field. Although the effectiveness of AAT is still unclear due to the lack of
Therapy animals are everywhere. Proof that they help is not. [SEP] Animal-assisted therapy // Animal-assisted therapy Animal-assisted therapy (AAT) is an alternative or complementary type of therapy that involves animals as a form of treatment. The goal of AAT is to improve a patient's social, emotional, or cognitive functioning. Advocates state that animals can be useful for educational and motivational effectiveness for participants. In a variety of settings such as prisons, nursing homes, mental institutions, animals are used to assist people with different disabilities. The most commonly used types of AAT are canine-assisted therapy and equine-assisted therapy. AAT is especially helpful in reducing the symptoms of psychological disorders, but most of the effects only
Therapy animals are everywhere. Proof that they help is not. [SEP] Animal-assisted therapy // certain life activities and help the individuals navigate outside of the home. As with all other interventions, assessing whether a program is effective as far as its outcomes are concerned is easier when the goals are clear and are able to be specified. There are a range of goals for animal assisted therapy programs relevant to children and young people, including enhanced capacity to form positive relationships with others. Therapists rely on techniques such as monitoring a child's behavior with the animal, their tone of voice, and indirect interviewing. These techniques are used, along with the child's pet or other
Therapy animals are everywhere. Proof that they help is not. [SEP] Animal-assisted therapy // neurochemicals are released when observing human and animal interactions. For example, the neurotransmitter phenylethylamine is released during a positive interaction between human and animal, further improving mood. Similarly,dog assistance can potentially mediate oxytocin which effects social and physical wellbeing and decrease blood pressure . The psychological benefits of animals focus mainly on dog and human interactions, the reduction of anxiety and depressive symptoms, and increased resilience. Animals in this capacity can further provide emotional and psychological assistance and support, addressing several PTSD symptoms. The presence of an animal can alleviate intrusion symptoms by providing a reminder that there is no
Therapy animals are everywhere. Proof that they help is not. [SEP] Animal-assisted therapy // nursing homes or LTC facilities, they often become passive, agitated, withdrawn, depressed, and inactive because of the lack of regular visitors or the loss of loved ones. Supporters of AAT say that animals can be helpful in motivating the patients to be active mentally and physically, keeping their minds sharp and bodies healthy. Therapists or visitors who bring animals into their sessions at the nursing home are often viewed as less threatening, which increases the relationship between the therapist/visitor and patient. There are numerous techniques used in AAT, depending on the needs and condition of the patient. For elderly dementia
Therapy animals are everywhere. Proof that they help is not. [SEP] Animal-assisted therapy // for the Treatment of Trauma in Military Veterans Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is a multidimensional diagnosis and is often difficult to diagnose due to varying severity and forms. PTSD is often difficult to treat due to high drop-out rates and low responses to traditional psychotherapeutic approaches and interventions. Alternative approaches, including animal assisted interventions (AAIs), have attracted increased popularity, noting the benefit from comfort animals provide through social and emotional companionship, serving as a complementary or alternative therapy. AAIs are any intervention that incorporates and includes an animal in the treatment process and encompass Animal-Assisted Therapy (therapeutic interventions), Animal-Assisted Activities
Therapy animals are everywhere. Proof that they help is not. [SEP] Animal-assisted therapy // patients, animal assisted therapy provides opportunities to have close physical contact with the animals, which may be helpful for people whose loved ones have passed and who do not frequently receive visitors. There are various animal species used in animal-assisted therapy (AAT). Individual animals are evaluated with strict criteria before being used in AAT. The criteria include appropriate size, age, aptitude, typical behaviors and the correct level of training. The most common forms of AAT are with dogs and horses. There is also published research on dolphin therapy. In canine-assisted therapy, therapy dogs interact with clients in animal assisted interventions,
Trio wins chemistry Nobel for work on antibody drugs, smart enzymes. [SEP] Frederick Sanger // Edelman for his work on the chemical structure of antibodies. Elizabeth Blackburn studied for a PhD in Sanger's laboratory between 1971 and 1974. She shared the 2009 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine with Carol W. Greider and Jack W. Szostak for her work on telomeres and the action of telomerase. , Sanger is the only person to have been awarded the Nobel Prize in Chemistry twice, and one of only four two-time Nobel laureates: The other three were Marie Curie (Physics, 1903 and Chemistry, 1911), Linus Pauling (Chemistry, 1954 and Peace, 1962) and John Bardeen (twice Physics, 1956 and
Trio wins chemistry Nobel for work on antibody drugs, smart enzymes. [SEP] Rodney Robert Porter // the University of Oxford, and Fellow of Trinity College, Oxford. His colleague Elizabeth Press (Betty Press) worked with him at NIMR, St Mary's and at Oxford contributing extensively to the work which led to the Nobel Prize. Porter was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society (FRS) in 1964. He won the Gairdner Foundation International Award in 1966. In 1972, Porter shared the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine with Gerald M. Edelman for determining the chemical structure of an antibody. Using the enzyme papain, he broke the blood's immunoglobin into fragments, making them easier to study. He also looked
Trio wins chemistry Nobel for work on antibody drugs, smart enzymes. [SEP] Greg Winter // Molecular Biology in Cambridge. He continued to specialise in protein and nucleic acid sequencing and became a Group Leader at the MRC Laboratory of Molecular Biology in 1981. He became interested in the idea that all antibodies have the same basic structure, with only small changes making them specific for one target. Georges Köhler and César Milstein had won the 1984 Nobel Prize for their work at the Laboratory of Molecular Biology, in discovering a method to isolate and reproduce individual, or monoclonal, antibodies from among the multitude of different antibody proteins that the immune system makes to seek and
Trio wins chemistry Nobel for work on antibody drugs, smart enzymes. [SEP] Piers Nash // the 1985 Nobel Prize lectures and ceremony in Stockholm, Sweden as part of the Stockholm International Youth Science Seminar and was awarded the International Youth Year Ontario Gold Medal. He received a BSc with honours in biochemistry from the University of Guelph, and the Chemical Institute of Canada prize for the top of class. He received a PhD in 1999 from the University of Alberta working in the laboratory of Dr. Grant McFadden investigating poxviral immunomodulatory proteins. His doctoral thesis focused on the enzymology and biological properties of the Myxoma virus encoded serine proteinase inhibitor (serpin), SERP-1. He completed postdoctoral
Trio wins chemistry Nobel for work on antibody drugs, smart enzymes. [SEP] Frances Arnold // peptides and antibodies." She is the first female graduate of Princeton to be awarded a Nobel Prize and the first person who got their undergraduate degree from Princeton (male or female) to receive a Nobel Prize in one of the natural sciences categories (chemistry, physics, and physiology of medicine). Frances Arnold Frances Hamilton Arnold (born July 25, 1956) is an American chemical engineer and Nobel Laureate. She is the Linus Pauling Professor of Chemical Engineering, Bioengineering and Biochemistry at the California Institute of Technology (Caltech). In 2018, she was awarded the Nobel Prize in Chemistry for pioneering the use of
Trio wins chemistry Nobel for work on antibody drugs, smart enzymes. [SEP] Greg Winter // them. For these developments Winter was awarded the 2018 Nobel Prize in Chemistry along with George Smith and Frances Arnold. He is a Fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge and was appointed Master of Trinity College, Cambridge on 2 October 2012. From 2006 to 2011, he was Deputy Director of the Laboratory of Molecular Biology, Medical Research Council, acting Director from 2007 to 2008 and Head of the Division of Protein and Nucleic Acids Chemistry from 1994 to 2006. He was also Deputy Director of the MRC Centre for Protein Engineering from 1990 to its closure in 2010. Winter was educated
Trio wins chemistry Nobel for work on antibody drugs, smart enzymes. [SEP] Chang Yi Wang // Edelman, an American biologist who received his Ph.D. training at Dr. Kunkel’s laboratory, shared the 1972 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for work with Rodney R. Porter on the immune system. Specifically, the Nobel Prize was given for his discovery of the structure of antibody molecules. Dr. Edelman and his laboratory colleagues taught immunology and biochemistry classes at Rockefeller University and were instrumental in leading Chang Yi to the most exciting, yet then still primitive, field of immunology. Ralph M. Steinman Dr. Steinman, a Canadian Immunologist and cell biologist, was one of the recipients of the 2011 Nobel Prize
Trio wins chemistry Nobel for work on antibody drugs, smart enzymes. [SEP] Otto Heinrich Warburg // his laboratory to the village of Liebenburg on the outskirts of Berlin to avoid ongoing air attacks. In 1944, Warburg was nominated for a second Nobel Prize in Physiology by Albert Szent-Györgyi, for his work on nicotinamide, the mechanism and enzymes involved in fermentation, and the discovery of flavin (in yellow enzymes). Some sources report that he was selected to receive the award that year, but was prevented from receiving it by Adolf Hitler’s regime, which had issued a decree in 1937 that forbade Germans from accepting Nobel Prizes. According to the Nobel Foundation, this rumor is not true; although
Trio wins chemistry Nobel for work on antibody drugs, smart enzymes. [SEP] Phillip Allen Sharp // Institute, and has been an Institute Professor since 1999. Sharp co-founded Biogen, Alnylam Pharmaceuticals, and Magen Biosciences, and has served on the boards of all three companies. In addition to the Nobel Prize, Sharp has won several notable awards, including the 2004 National Medal of Science, the 1999 Benjamin Franklin Medal for Distinguished Achievement in the Sciences of the American Philosophical Society, and the 1988 Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize from Columbia University together with Thomas R. Cech. Sharp is an elected member of several academic societies, including the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, the American Association for the Advancement
Trio wins chemistry Nobel for work on antibody drugs, smart enzymes. [SEP] Greg Winter // a Fellow of the Royal Society (FRS) in 1990 and awarded the Royal Medal by the society in 2011 "for his pioneering work in protein engineering and therapeutic monoclonal antibodies, and his contributions as an inventor and entrepreneur". He was given the Scheele Award in 1994. In 1995, Winter won several international awards including the King Faisal International Prize for Medicine (Molecular Immunology) and in 1999, the Cancer Research Institute William B. Coley Award. Winter was formerly the Joint Head of the Division of Protein and Nucleic acid Chemistry-Biotechnology, and is Deputy Director, at the Laboratory of Molecular Biology, Cambridge,
UCB urges stronger warning on cough medicine. [SEP] Cold medicine // the following types of substances: The efficacy of cough medication is questionable, particularly in children. A 2014 Cochrane review concluded that "There is no good evidence for or against the effectiveness of OTC medicines in acute cough". Some cough medicines may be no more effective than placebos for acute coughs in adults, including coughs related to upper respiratory tract infections. The American College of Chest Physicians emphasizes that cough medicines are not designed to treat whooping cough, a cough that is caused by bacteria and can last for months. No over-the-counter cough medicines have been found to be effective in
UCB urges stronger warning on cough medicine. [SEP] Upper respiratory tract infection // low or very-low quality evidence that probiotics may be better than placebo in preventing acute URTIs. Vaccination against influenza viruses, adenoviruses, measles, rubella, "Streptococcus pneumoniae", "Haemophilus influenzae", diphtheria, "Bacillus anthracis", and "Bordetella pertussis" may prevent them from infecting the URT or reduce the severity of the infection. The Centers for Disease Control describe protocol for treating sinusitis while at the same time discouraging overuse of antibiotics: Treatment comprises symptomatic support usually via analgesics for headache, sore throat and muscle aches. Moderate exercise in sedentary subjects with naturally acquired URTI probably does not alter the overall severity and duration of the
UCB urges stronger warning on cough medicine. [SEP] Cough // symptoms in children. There is tentative evidence that the use of honey is better than no treatment or diphenhydramine in decreasing coughing. It does not alleviate coughing to the same extent as dextromethorphan but it shortens the cough duration better than placebo and salbutamol. A trial of antibiotics or inhaled corticosteroids may be tried in children with a chronic cough in an attempt to treat protracted bacterial bronchitis or asthma respectively. A cough is the most common reason for visiting a primary care physician in the United States. Marine mammals such as dolphins cannot cough. Domestic animals such as dogs
UCB urges stronger warning on cough medicine. [SEP] Upper respiratory tract infection // cold medicine due to the potential for life-threatening side effects. In addition, according to the American Academy of Pediatrics, the use of cough medicine to relieve cough symptoms should be avoided in children under 4 years old, and the safety is questioned for children under 6 years old. Routine supplementation with vitamin C is not justified, as it does not appear to be effective in reducing the incidence of common colds in the general population. The use of vitamin C in the inhibition and treatment of upper respiratory infections has been suggested since the initial isolation of vitamin C in
UCB urges stronger warning on cough medicine. [SEP] Common cold // treating an acute cough. Cough medicines are not recommended for use in children due to a lack of evidence supporting effectiveness and the potential for harm. In 2009, Canada restricted the use of over-the-counter cough and cold medication in children six years and under due to concerns regarding risks and unproven benefits. The misuse of dextromethorphan (an over-the-counter cough medicine) has led to its ban in a number of countries. Intranasal corticosteroids have not been found to be useful. In adults short term use of nasal decongestants may have a small benefit. Antihistamines may improve symptoms in the first day
UCB urges stronger warning on cough medicine. [SEP] Cold medicine // inexpensive, yet toxic, glycerin substitute marketed for industrial use. In May 2007, 365 deaths were reported in Panama, which were associated with cough syrup containing diethylene glycol. A number of types of cough medicine are frequently abused. This includes those containing dextromethorphan and codeine. Abuse may result in physical distortion and hallucinations. Cold medicine Cold medicines are medications used by people with the common cold, cough, or related conditions. There is, however, no good evidence that cough medications reduce coughing. While they are used by 10% of American children in any given week, they are not recommended in Canada and
UCB urges stronger warning on cough medicine. [SEP] Opioid // which boosts the pain relief but is also intended to deter recreational use. Codeine was once viewed as the "gold standard" in cough suppressants, but this position is now questioned. Some recent placebo-controlled trials have found that it may be no better than a placebo for some causes including acute cough in children. Thus, it is not recommended for children. Additionally, there is no evidence that hydrocodone is useful in children. Similarly, a 2012 Dutch guideline regarding the treatment of acute cough does not recommend its use. (The opioid analogue dextromethorphan, long claimed to be as effective a cough suppressant
UCB urges stronger warning on cough medicine. [SEP] Cough // irregular coughing is caused by a respiratory tract infection but can also be triggered by choking, smoking, air pollution, asthma, gastroesophageal reflux disease, post-nasal drip, chronic bronchitis, lung tumors, heart failure and medications such as ACE inhibitors. Treatment should target the cause; for example, smoking cessation or discontinuing ACE inhibitors. Cough suppressants such as codeine or dextromethorphan are frequently prescribed, but have been demonstrated to have little effect. Other treatment options may target airway inflammation or may promote mucus expectoration. As it is a natural protective reflex, suppressing the cough reflex might have damaging effects, especially if the cough is
UCB urges stronger warning on cough medicine. [SEP] Erdosteine // cough (both frequency and severity) and sputum viscosity more quickly and more effectively than placebo and reduced the adhesivity of sputum more effectively than bromhexine 30 mg twice daily. Co-administration of erdosteine and amoxicillin in patients with acute infective exacerbation of chronic bronchitis resulted in higher concentrations of the antibiotic in the sputum, leading to earlier and more pronounced amelioration of clinical symptoms compared with placebo. Erdosteine is associated with a low incidence of adverse events, most of which are gastrointestinal and generally mild. The is very high, 3,500-5,000 mg/kg. Europe: Other regions: Erdosteine Erdosteine is a mucolytic. Specifically it
UCB urges stronger warning on cough medicine. [SEP] Acute bronchitis // and avoiding other lung irritants. Frequent hand washing may also be protective. Treatment of acute bronchitis typically involves rest, paracetamol (acetaminophen), and NSAIDs to help with the fever. Cough medicine has little support for its use and is not recommended in children less than six years of age. Salbutamol is not effective in children with an acute cough who do not have restricted airways. There is weak evidence that salbutamol may be useful in adults with wheezing due to a restricted airway; however, it may result in nervousness, shakiness or a tremor. Antibiotics should generally not be used. An exception
Oregon Health Authority Says that in 2007, "Oregon ranked 25th -- or 7th from the bottom -- in percentage of children with untreated decay compared to 32 other states with similar data. [SEP] Dentistry in rural Alaska // population has one of the highest rates of oral disease in the world. Children 2 to 5 years of age have almost five times the amount of tooth decay as do children of the same age elsewhere in the United States. Children ages 6 to 14 have 4.5 times the amount, and adults are 2.5 times higher. There are over 200 Native Alaskan Villages, many of which are very remote. Travelling to these villages are usually by boat, airplane, or snow machine. The cost of transportation is expensive and prohibits many of the villagers from leaving to get dental care
Oregon Health Authority Says that in 2007, "Oregon ranked 25th -- or 7th from the bottom -- in percentage of children with untreated decay compared to 32 other states with similar data. [SEP] H. Trendley Dean // published an index to categorize the severity of dental fluorosis. In 1939 he reported on children who grew up in 4 nearby Illinois towns: “These differences are so great that little comment seems necessary. The 2,718 surfaces in the [high fluoride] children showed only 0.59 carious lesion per 100 surfaces. In the 2,814 tooth surfaces of the [low fluoride] children there were 8.9 carious lesions per 100 surfaces, or 16 times as much…”. The August 1, 1943 Journal of The American Dental Association referenced Dean as acknowledging the difficulty of identifying an optimal concentration with the following quote, "The same
Oregon Health Authority Says that in 2007, "Oregon ranked 25th -- or 7th from the bottom -- in percentage of children with untreated decay compared to 32 other states with similar data. [SEP] Indigenous health in Australia // Rates decreased by 64% and 51% in equivalent age groups for non-Aboriginal children. Until the 1980s Aboriginal children were recognised as having better oral health than non-Aboriginal children. Today, average rates of tooth decay in Aboriginal children are twice as high as non-Aboriginal children. Between 1991 and 2001, the rate of tooth decay amongst Aboriginal children living in metropolitan areas fell, going against the increase in child tooth decay in remote areas. A study performed in 2001-2002 showed that Indigenous Australian patients showed a higher ratio of missing or decayed teeth than European patients, but a lower ratio of filled
Oregon Health Authority Says that in 2007, "Oregon ranked 25th -- or 7th from the bottom -- in percentage of children with untreated decay compared to 32 other states with similar data. [SEP] Epidemiology of childhood obesity // overweight/obese children, 44.5%/21.9% respectively. The western states were found to have the lowest prevalence, such as Utah (23.1%) and Oregon (9.6%). From 2003-2007, there was a twofold increase in states reporting prevalence of pediatric obesity greater than or equal to 18%.7 Oregon was the only state showing decline from 2003 to 2007 (decline by 32%), and using children in Oregon as a reference group, obesity in children in Illinois, Tennessee, Kentucky, West Virginia, Georgia, and Kansas has doubled. The likelihood of obesity in children was found to increase significantly with decreasing levels of household income, lower neighborhood access to parks
Oregon Health Authority Says that in 2007, "Oregon ranked 25th -- or 7th from the bottom -- in percentage of children with untreated decay compared to 32 other states with similar data. [SEP] Health in Sudan // The decay-missing-filled index are indicators used to determine the status of dental caries. The table below is from a 1993 report reporting on such data. <nowiki>*</nowiki> A total of 275 pre-school children in kindergartens from Khartoum were studied. This malformation showed a prevalence of 0.9 per 1000 in Sudan. More girls are affected than boys, with a male:female ratio of 3:10. (44% cleft lip with cleft palate, 30% only cleft palate, and 16% cleft lip alone). Health in Sudan Sudan is still one of the largest countries in Africa even after the split of the Northern and Southern parts. It
Oregon Health Authority Says that in 2007, "Oregon ranked 25th -- or 7th from the bottom -- in percentage of children with untreated decay compared to 32 other states with similar data. [SEP] Mississippi // system. Mississippi has the highest rate of infant and neonatal deaths of any U.S. state. Age-adjusted data also shows Mississippi has the highest overall death rate, and the highest death rate from heart disease, hypertension and hypertensive renal disease, influenza and pneumonia. In 2011, Mississippi (and Arkansas) had the fewest dentists in the United States. For three years in a row, more than 30 percent of Mississippi's residents have been classified as obese. In a 2006 study, 22.8 percent of the state's children were classified as such. Mississippi had the highest rate of obesity of any U.S. state from 2005
Oregon Health Authority Says that in 2007, "Oregon ranked 25th -- or 7th from the bottom -- in percentage of children with untreated decay compared to 32 other states with similar data. [SEP] Water fluoridation in the United States // and low fluoride Wichita Falls. The data is alleged to show fewer cavities in Amarillo children, but the studies were never published. Dr. Dean's research on the fluoride-dental caries relationship, published in 1942, included 7,000 children from 21 cities in Colorado, Illinois, Indiana, and Ohio. The study concluded that the optimal amount of fluoride which minimized the risk of severe fluorosis but had positive benefits for tooth decay was 1 mg per day, per adult. Although fluoride is more abundant in the environment today, this was estimated to correlate with the concentration of 1 mg/L. In 1937, dentists Henry Klein
Oregon Health Authority Says that in 2007, "Oregon ranked 25th -- or 7th from the bottom -- in percentage of children with untreated decay compared to 32 other states with similar data. [SEP] Religion in Oregon // states with the highest percentage of residents who were unaffiliated with any religion, at 24.6%. Although 46% of Oregonians identify religion as being "very important", a full 40% of Oregonians (including those affiliated with a religion) seldom or never attend services. In a different 2009 Gallup poll, Oregon was ranked as the seventh least religious state. In response to the question, "Is religion an important part of your life?", 53% of Oregonians responded "yes". The most religious state was Mississippi, with 85%, and the least religious state was Vermont, with 42%. The states less religious than Oregon, in order, are
Oregon Health Authority Says that in 2007, "Oregon ranked 25th -- or 7th from the bottom -- in percentage of children with untreated decay compared to 32 other states with similar data. [SEP] Tooth decay // distribution of the disease is found throughout the world with some children having none or very few caries and others having a high number. Australia, Nepal, and Sweden (where children receive dental care paid for by the government) have a low incidence of cases of dental caries among children, whereas cases are more numerous in Costa Rica and Slovakia. The classic DMF (decay/missing/filled) index is one of the most common methods for assessing caries prevalence as well as dental treatment needs among populations. This index is based on in-field clinical examination of individuals by using a probe, mirror and cotton
Oregon Health Authority Says that in 2007, "Oregon ranked 25th -- or 7th from the bottom -- in percentage of children with untreated decay compared to 32 other states with similar data. [SEP] Crime in the United States // for comparison.) According to a 2001 report from UNICEF, the United States has the highest rate of deaths from child abuse and neglect of any industrialized nation, at 2.4 per 100,000 children; France has 1.4, Japan 1, UK 0.9 and Germany 0.8. According to the US Department of Health, the state of Texas has the highest death rate, at 4.05 per 100,000 children, New York has 2.46, Oregon 1.49 and New Hampshire 0.35. A UNICEF report on child wellbeing stated that the United States and the United Kingdom ranked lowest among industrial nations with respect to the wellbeing of children.
Alissa Keny-Guyer Says "in Oregon only 41 percent of adults have ever been tested" for HIV. [SEP] HIV/AIDS in the United States // for an estimated 54% of people diagnosed with AIDS, with 39% being African American, 32% being white, and 24% being Hispanic/Latino. The CDC estimates that more than 600,000 gay and bisexual men are currently living with HIV in the United States. A review of four studies in which trans women in the United States were tested for HIV found that 27.7% tested positive. In a 2008 study, the Center for Disease Control found that, of the study participants who were men who had sex with men ("MSM"), almost one in five (19%) had HIV and "among those who were infected,
Alissa Keny-Guyer Says "in Oregon only 41 percent of adults have ever been tested" for HIV. [SEP] HIV/AIDS in Colombia // have an HIV prevalence rate of about 0.6%, whereas women have a prevalence rate of about 0.2%. A 2012 study that surveyed the records of almost 30,000 Colombians between the ages of 18 and 69 found that 19.7% had been tested for HIV. People living in rural areas, people with less education, men, and people over the age of 65 were less likely to have been tested than the general population. On the other hand, women, urbanites, people with more education, and young people were more likely to have been tested than the general population. Consistent with factors throughout the
Alissa Keny-Guyer Says "in Oregon only 41 percent of adults have ever been tested" for HIV. [SEP] Tanzania // that, on average, 5.1 percent of those tested in the 15 to 49 age group were HIV-positive. Anti-retroviral treatment coverage for people living with HIV was 37 percent in 2013, compared to 19 percent in 2011. According to a 2013 report published by the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV and AIDS that compares 2012 with 2001 data, AIDS deaths have decreased 33 percent, new HIV infections have decreased 36 percent, and new HIV infections among children have decreased 67 percent. Women and men have equality for the law. The government signed the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms
Alissa Keny-Guyer Says "in Oregon only 41 percent of adults have ever been tested" for HIV. [SEP] Serosorting // for herpes, gonorrhea, chlamydia, syphilis, hepatitis types A, B and C, and HIV—as well as monthly for HIV, gonorrhea, and chlamydia. Before this program of testing, adult film actors had a very high rate of STDs, but now have only a 20% higher rate of STDs than the general public. Dr. Matthew Golden of King County Public Health, in Washington, conducted a study with sexually active West Coast men and concluded that the patient population did demonstrate limited protection from HIV by serosorting. In his study, 3.5% of the men that used neither condoms nor serosorting became HIV-positive, as compared
Alissa Keny-Guyer Says "in Oregon only 41 percent of adults have ever been tested" for HIV. [SEP] HIV/AIDS in El Salvador // called Make the Decision to Wait to teach adolescents about safer sexual behaviors and to abstain from sex, and in 2005, two major campaigns were launched to combat stigma against people living with HIV/AIDS (PLWHA). President Elías Antonio Saca González declared June 27, 2007, National HIV Testing Day. With the support of the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID), the regional NGO Pan American Social Marketing Organization (PASMO) managed the event’s publicity campaign. The campaign resulted in 54,461 tests, exceeding the 40,000 target. Nearly three times the normal monthly average of tests done in all of 2006 were conducted on
Alissa Keny-Guyer Says "in Oregon only 41 percent of adults have ever been tested" for HIV. [SEP] 1994 Oregon Ballot Measure 16 // medication was 71, with 77.1 percent of patients suffering from malignant neoplasms (cancer). Of the 991, 51.4% were male (48.6% female); 45.5% had a Baccalaureate degree or higher; 45.3% were married; primary end of life concerns were loss of autonomy (91.6%), inability to make life enjoyable (89.7%), and loss of dignity (78.7%). An independent study published in the October 2007 issue of the "Journal of Medical Ethics" reports there was "no evidence of heightened risk for the elderly, women, the uninsured, people with low educational status, the poor, the physically disabled or chronically ill, minors, people with psychiatric illnesses including
Alissa Keny-Guyer Says "in Oregon only 41 percent of adults have ever been tested" for HIV. [SEP] HIV/AIDS in Egypt // general population place Egypt at risk of a broader epidemic. Among officially reported cases, heterosexual intercourse is the primary mode of transmission of HIV (49.1 percent), followed by homosexual intercourse (22.9 percent), renal dialysis (12 percent), and blood transfusion (6.2 percent), according to the National Aids Program (NAP) in an official report issued in January 2008. Males are four times more likely to have HIV than females, but this may be due to more men being tested than women. Other people likely to be exposed to HIV in Egypt include street children, prisoners, and refugees. A United States Agency for
Alissa Keny-Guyer Says "in Oregon only 41 percent of adults have ever been tested" for HIV. [SEP] HIV/AIDS in Egypt // such as for blood donors, foreigners staying in the country for more than six months, and citizens applying for permits to work overseas. Even though voluntary testing was available, people were discouraged from utilizing these services because of the requirement that those who tested positive be identified and reported to the MOHP. According to UNAIDS statistics, about 6,500 people know of their HIV positive status, which is 57 percent of those who are infected. In 2005, the MOHP, with the help of Family Health International (An Egyptian organization funded by U.S. Agency for International Development), established a system of voluntary
Alissa Keny-Guyer Says "in Oregon only 41 percent of adults have ever been tested" for HIV. [SEP] HIV/AIDS in El Salvador // practices among people engaging in high-risk behaviors, and the country’s large mobile population. The National Health Survey conducted in 2002 and 2003 indicated that 32 percent of females aged 15 to 19 were already sexually active. Knowledge about HIV/AIDS remains somewhat limited, as evidenced by one multicenter study in which 40 percent of MSM had false beliefs about the modes of transmission of HIV. Among sex workers, an estimated 90 percent do not use condoms with regular partners. Compounding these issues are S&D toward HIV-infected individuals and at-risk groups, which can deter people from getting tested and receiving adequate support
Alissa Keny-Guyer Says "in Oregon only 41 percent of adults have ever been tested" for HIV. [SEP] HIV/AIDS in Australia // increased testing. In Victoria, HIV notifications have increased over the past three years. This rise is partially explained by the introduction of rapid HIV testing. While approximately 90% of people living with HIV in Victoria are MSM, 20% of the new diagnoses are outside that group. In 2014, the Kirby Institute reported for Australia 1,235 new HIV cases were diagnosed in 2013, with more than 26,000 people living with the virus, and one in seven with HIV not knowing they have the virus. It was reported that the prevalence of HIV in Australia has increased to a 20-year high largely
Utah home-birth rate is double the US average, report says. [SEP] Utah // less frequent now in Salt Lake City, is a reversal of vowels, so that 'farm' and 'barn' sound like 'form' and 'born' and, conversely, 'form' and 'born' sound like 'farm' and 'barn'. In 2000, 87.5% of all state residents five years of age or older spoke only English at home, a decrease from 92.2% in 1990. Utah has the highest total birth rate and accordingly, the youngest population of any U.S. state. In 2010, the state's population was 50.2% male and 49.8% female. According to the Bureau of Economic Analysis, the gross state product of Utah in 2012 was ,
Utah home-birth rate is double the US average, report says. [SEP] Silicon Slopes // proficient, multilingual workforce, speaking over 130 languages. Many residents of Utah lived and worked abroad which contributes to the flexibility and capabilities of immediately contributing to companies. Utah also maintains the youngest population in the United States due to its higher-than-average birth rate. The median age in Utah is 29.6 years, compared to the nationwide median of 37.3 years. This young labor force is very attractive to employers as baby boomers throughout the nation retire and many states find it difficult to replenish their workforce due to falling birth rates. Prominent schools that contribute to the Utah workforce include three
Utah home-birth rate is double the US average, report says. [SEP] Demography of the United States // 2010 and July 2011, compared to 37% in 1990. In 2010 the state with the lowest fertility rate was Rhode Island, with a rate of 1.63, while Utah had the greatest rate with a rate of 2.45. This correlates with the ages of the states' populations: Rhode Island has the ninth-oldest median age in the US—39.2—while Utah has the youngest—29.0. Median age of the U.S. population through history. Source: U.S. Department of Commerce. Bureau of Census, United States Census Bureau and The World Factbook. The U.S. total fertility rate as of 2010 census is 1.931: Other: Source: National Vital statistics
Utah home-birth rate is double the US average, report says. [SEP] Demographics of Utah // Salt Lake metropolitan area. The national LGBT magazine "The Advocate" ranked Salt Lake City as one of the nation's 50 hot spots for the subculture in 2005. Utah has a high total birth rate, and the youngest population of any U.S. state. It is also one of the few non-Southern states that has more males than females. In 2000, 49.9% female and 50.1% male constituted the gender makeup of Utah. Demographics of Utah The United States Census Bureau estimates that the population of Utah was 2,995,919 on July 1, 2015, an 8.40% increase since the 2010 United States Census. The
Utah home-birth rate is double the US average, report says. [SEP] Sub-replacement fertility // whites in the US, after falling to about 1.6 in the 1970s and early 1980s, had increased and is now around 1.89 rather than lower to the 1.6 level common in Europe. It can also be explained by substantial immigration. New England has a rate similar to most Western European countries, while the South, Midwest, and border states have fertility rates considerably higher than replacement. States where The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has a strong presence, most notably Utah, also have higher-than-replacement fertility rates, especially among the LDS population. Heaton and Goodman (1985) found that LDS women
Utah home-birth rate is double the US average, report says. [SEP] Utah // lowest in percentage of teen pregnancies terminated in abortion. However, statistics relating to pregnancies and abortions may also be artificially low from teenagers going out of state for abortions because of parental notification requirements. Utah has the lowest child poverty rate in the country, despite its young demographics. According to the Gallup-Healthways Global Well-Being Index , Utahns ranked fourth in overall well-being in the United States. A 2002 national prescription drug study determined that antidepressant drugs were "prescribed in Utah more often than in any other state, at a rate nearly twice the national average." The data shows that depression
Utah home-birth rate is double the US average, report says. [SEP] Home birth // In 2004, the New Zealand rate for births at home was nearly three times Australia's with a rate of 2.5% and increasing. In the Netherlands, the trend has been somewhat different from other industrialized countries: while in 1965, two-thirds of Dutch births took place at home, that figure has dropped to about 20% in 2013, which is still more than in other industrialized countries. Less than 1% of South Korean infants are born at home. In 2014, a comprehensive review in the "Journal of Medical Ethics" of 12 previously published studies encompassing 500,000 planned home births in low-risk women concluded
Utah home-birth rate is double the US average, report says. [SEP] Provo, Utah // individual, and 4.7% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 3.24 and the average family size was 3.41. 22.3% of residents are under the age of 18, 36.4% from 18 to 24, 24.8% from 25 to 44, 10.5% from 45 to 64, and 5.8% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 23.3 years. For every 100 females, there were 98.2 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 96.4 males. At the 2000 census, 105,166 people, 29,192 households and 19,938 families resided
Utah home-birth rate is double the US average, report says. [SEP] United States // 15 per 1,000 women aged 15–44 remain higher than those of most Western nations. In 2013, the average age at first birth was 26 and 40.6% of births were to unmarried women. The total fertility rate (TFR) in 2016 was 1.82 births per 1000 woman. Adoption in the United States is common and relatively easy from a legal point of view (compared to other Western countries). In 2001, with over 127,000 adoptions, the U.S. accounted for nearly half of the total number of adoptions worldwide. Same-sex marriage is legal nationwide, owing to the Supreme Court's 2015 decision in "Obergefell v.
Utah home-birth rate is double the US average, report says. [SEP] Home birth // 17,000 voluntarily-reported home births in the United States between 2004 and 2010 found an intrapartum infant mortality rate of 1.30 per thousand; early neonatal and late neonatal mortality rates were a further 0.41 and 0.35 per thousand. The survey excluded congenital anomaly-related deaths, as well as births where the mother was transferred to a hospital prior to beginning labor. In October 2013 the largest study of this kind was published in the American Journal of Obstetrics and Gynecology and included data on more than 13 million births in the United States, assessing deliveries by physicians and midwives in and out
California rejects unique intersex surgery ban for some kids. [SEP] Intersex rights in the United States // many reported misinformation. The report calls for a ban on "surgical procedures that seek to alter the gonads, genitals, or internal sex organs of children with atypical sex characteristics too young to participate in the decision, when those procedures both carry a meaningful risk of harm and can be safely deferred." The report was acknowledged as an important contribution to research by the American Academy of Pediatrics. In a 2017 interview for Harper's Magazine, Laurence Baskin, chief of pediatric urology at University of California, San Francisco, told journalist Sarah Topol "that he would recommend early surgery not just for 5-alpha
California rejects unique intersex surgery ban for some kids. [SEP] Intersex rights in the United States // circumstances require emergency intervention". On August 28, California became the first U.S. State to condemn nonconsensual surgeries on intersex children, in Resolution SCR-110. The case of "M.C. v. Aaronson", advanced by interACT with the Southern Poverty Law Center was brought before the courts in 2013. The child in the case was born in December 2004 with ovotestes, initially determined as male, but subsequently assigned female and placed in the care of South Carolina Department of Social Services in February 2005. Physicians responsible for M.C. initially concluded that surgery was not urgent or necessary and M.C. had potential to identify as
California rejects unique intersex surgery ban for some kids. [SEP] Intersex rights in the United States // but for 95 percent of known D.S.D. conditions ... Baskin classifies such operations as corrective surgeries, no different from fixing a cleft palate or clubfoot. "We basically treat them because they have a congenital anomaly"." In response to the 2017 Human Rights Watch report, Associated Press reported opposition to a ban by CARES Foundation, arguing that parents should be able to agree to surgeries to "reduce the size of the clitoris" without considering "moral and philosophical agendas". Kyle Knight of Human Rights Watch responded that there's no evidence of a health risk, and "There are limits to what parents can
California rejects unique intersex surgery ban for some kids. [SEP] Intersex rights in the United States // do to their kids". interACT states that they are "unaware of any jurisdiction in the U.S. that enforces its own FGM laws in cases where the girl undergoing clitoral cutting has an intersex trait". In November 2016, passed a new policy position on patients with differences in sex development, recommending "delay of any surgical interventions and gender-related medical interventions for DSD that are not deemed medically necessary". Associated Press reported in July 2017 that the American Medical Association Board of Trustees is considering a policy statement "urging doctors to defer intersex surgery on infants and young children" "except when life-threatening
California rejects unique intersex surgery ban for some kids. [SEP] Intersex human rights reports // calls for a ban on "surgical procedures that seek to alter the gonads, genitals, or internal sex organs of children with atypical sex characteristics too young to participate in the decision, when those procedures both carry a meaningful risk of harm and can be safely deferred." The report was acknowledged as an important contribution to research by the American Academy of Pediatrics, Associated Press reported on the report and opposition to a ban by CARES Foundation. Intersex human rights reports Intersex people are born with sex characteristics, such as chromosomes, gonads, or genitals that, according to the UN Office of
California rejects unique intersex surgery ban for some kids. [SEP] Intersex rights in Colombia // child could not be altered without the child’s informed consent. In Sentencia SU-337/99, of May 12, 1999, the Court varied the earlier decision on informed consent for genital surgeries in children. The Court ruled in the case of XX, an 8-year old with ambiguous genitalia, androgen insensitivity and XY chromosomes, raised as a girl. Doctors recommended feminizing surgeries, including a gonadectomy, vaginoplasty and clitoroplasty before puberty, but the hospital would not proceed without the consent of the Colombian Institute of Family Welfare and the Office of the Public Advocate (Defensor del Pueblo de la Seccional del Departamento XX). The mother
California rejects unique intersex surgery ban for some kids. [SEP] Human rights in Australia // into involuntary or coerced medical interventions on intersex people, but the report has not been implemented. A recent Family Court case authorising a gonadectomy and consequential surgery on a young child has attracted public commentary for disclosing those medical interventions, their rationales, and a prior clitorectomy and labiaplasty. In March 2017, Australian and New Zealand community organizations issued a joint call for legal reform, including the criminalization of deferrable intersex medical interventions on children, an end to legal classification of sex, and improved access to peer support. Human rights in Australia Human rights in Australia have largely been developed under
California rejects unique intersex surgery ban for some kids. [SEP] Intersex rights in Colombia // was the only option for their daughter. The parents did not examine alternative options to surgery; therefore, their decision did not consider the best interests of the child". In Sentencia T-912/08, the Court ruled in the case of a five-year old child, ruling that parents and child could give joint consent. In cases where the child and parents had different opinions, no surgery could take place until adulthood. On June 4, 2015, the Government issued a decree, signed by the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior enabling simple administrative changes to legal gender by signing a document
California rejects unique intersex surgery ban for some kids. [SEP] InterACT // based on interviews with intersex persons, families and physicians. The report found that "Intersex people in the United States are subjected to medical practices that can inflict irreversible physical and psychological harm on them starting in infancy, harms that can last throughout their lives." The report calls for a ban on "surgical procedures that seek to alter the gonads, genitals, or internal sex organs of children with atypical sex characteristics too young to participate in the decision, when those procedures both carry a meaningful risk of harm and can be safely deferred." On May 14, 2013, interACT, The Southern Poverty
California rejects unique intersex surgery ban for some kids. [SEP] Intersex human rights // (SU-337 of 1999), doctors are obliged to inform parents on all the aspects of the intersex child. Parents can only consent to surgery if they have received accurate information, and cannot give consent after the child reaches the age of five. By then the child will have, supposedly, realized their gender identity. The court case led to the setting of legal guidelines for doctors' surgical practice on intersex children. In April 2015, Malta became the first country to outlaw non-consensual medical interventions in a "Gender Identity Gender Expression and Sex Characteristics Act". The Act recognizes a right to bodily integrity
Nobel for quantum "parlour trick" that could make super computers. [SEP] Quantum computing // of nature, you'd better make it quantum mechanical, and by golly, it's a wonderful problem because it doesn't look so easy." In 1984, BB84 is published, the world's first quantum cryptography protocol by IBM scientists Charles Bennett and Gilles Brassard. In 1993, an international group of six scientists, including Charles Bennett, showed that perfect quantum teleportation is possible in principle, but only if the original is destroyed. In 1994 Peter Shor, at AT&T's Bell Labs discovered an important quantum algorithm, which allows a quantum computer to factor large integers exponentially much faster than the best known classical algorithm. Shor's algorithm
Nobel for quantum "parlour trick" that could make super computers. [SEP] Robert J. Schoelkopf // might eventually lead to revolutionary advances in computing. In 2007, a team of scientists led by Schoelkopf and Steven Girvin made a major breakthrough in quantum computing when it engineered a superconducting communication "bus" to store and transfer information between distant quantum bits, or qubits, on a chip. Their work is the first step to making the fundamentals of quantum computing useful. In 2009, their team demonstrated the first electronic quantum processor which could perform a quantum computation. Schoelkopf's techniques emphasize high-speed, high-sensitivity measurements performed on nanostructures at low temperatures. Together with his former supervisor Daniel Prober and his laboratory
Nobel for quantum "parlour trick" that could make super computers. [SEP] Supertask // for example if the observer were falling into a black hole while observing a counter whose position is fixed relative to the singularity.) Davies in his paper "Building Infinite Machines" concocted a device which he claims is physically possible up to infinite divisibility. It involves a machine which creates an exact replica of itself but has half its size and twice its speed. Still, for either a human or any device, to perceive or act upon the state of the lamp some measurement has to be done, for example the light from the lamp would have to reach an eye
Nobel for quantum "parlour trick" that could make super computers. [SEP] Steven Girvin // problem of building a quantum computer, and on developing a new "circuit QED" using superconducting electrical circuits. The group was successful in experimentally implementing two-qubit quantum algorithms on a superconducting circuit. Girvin co-edited the book "The Quantum Hall Effect", which has been translated to Japanese, Chinese and Russian. Girvin, James P. Eisenstein and Allan H. MacDonald won the 2007 Oliver E. Buckley Condensed Matter Prize for their "Fundamental experimental and theoretical research on correlated many-electron states in low dimensional systems" Steven Girvin Steven M. Girvin is an American physicist, who is the Eugene Higgins Professor of Physics and deputy provost
Nobel for quantum "parlour trick" that could make super computers. [SEP] Quantum computing // topic, in spite of rapid progress, is still in its infancy. There is also a vast amount of flexibility. In 1959 Richard Feynman in his lecture "There's Plenty of Room at the Bottom" states the possibility of using quantum effects for computation. In 1980 Paul Benioff described quantum mechanical Hamiltonian models of computers and the Russian mathematician Yuri Manin motivated the development of quantum computers. In 1981, at a conference co-organized by MIT and IBM, physicist Richard Feynman urged the world to build a quantum computer. He said, "Nature isn't classical, dammit, and if you want to make a simulation
Nobel for quantum "parlour trick" that could make super computers. [SEP] Quantum algorithm // that the Chern-Simons topological quantum field theory (TQFT) can be solved in terms of Jones polynomials. A quantum computer can simulate a TQFT, and thereby approximate the Jones polynomial, which as far as we know, is hard to compute classically in the worst-case scenario. The idea that quantum computers might be more powerful than classical computers originated in Richard Feynman's observation that classical computers seem to require exponential time to simulate many-particle quantum systems. Since then, the idea that quantum computers can simulate quantum physical processes exponentially faster than classical computers has been greatly fleshed out and elaborated. Efficient (that
Nobel for quantum "parlour trick" that could make super computers. [SEP] Quantum computing // The field of quantum computing was initiated by the work of Paul Benioff and Yuri Manin in 1980, Richard Feynman in 1982, and David Deutsch in 1985. Large-scale quantum computers would theoretically be able to solve certain problems much more quickly than any classical computers that use even the best currently known algorithms, like integer factorization using Shor's algorithm (which is a quantum algorithm) and the simulation of quantum many-body systems. There exist quantum algorithms, such as Simon's algorithm, that run faster than any possible probabilistic classical algorithm. A classical computer could in principle (with exponential resources) simulate a quantum
Nobel for quantum "parlour trick" that could make super computers. [SEP] Cavity quantum electrodynamics // ion quantum computer with cavity photons replacing phonons. The 2012 Nobel Prize for Physics was awarded to Serge Haroche and David Wineland for their work on controlling quantum systems. Haroche was born 1944 in Casablanca, Morocco, and in 1971 gained a PhD from Université Pierre et Marie Curie in Paris. He shares half of the prize for developing a new field called cavity quantum electrodynamics (CQED) – whereby the properties of an atom are controlled by placing it in an optical or microwave cavity. Haroche focused on microwave experiments and turned the technique on its head – using CQED to
Nobel for quantum "parlour trick" that could make super computers. [SEP] Quantum computing // can theoretically break many of the public-key cryptosystems in use today. Its invention sparked a tremendous interest in quantum computers. In 1996, The DiVincenzo's criteria are published which is a list of conditions that are necessary for constructing a quantum computer proposed by the theoretical physicist David P. DiVincenzo in his 2000 paper "The Physical Implementation of Quantum Computation". In 2001, researchers demonstrated Shor's algorithm to factor 15 using a 7-qubit NMR computer. In 2005, researchers at the University of Michigan built a semiconductor chip ion trap. Such devices from standard lithography may point the way to scalable quantum computing.
Nobel for quantum "parlour trick" that could make super computers. [SEP] Quantum computing // of Bristol created an all-bulk optics system that ran a version of Shor's algorithm to successfully factor 21. In September 2011 researchers proved quantum computers can be made with a Von Neumann architecture (separation of RAM). In November 2011 researchers factorized 143 using 4 qubits. In February 2012 IBM scientists said that they had made several breakthroughs in quantum computing with superconducting integrated circuits. In April 2012 a multinational team of researchers from the University of Southern California, Delft University of Technology, the Iowa State University of Science and Technology, and the University of California, Santa Barbara, constructed a two-qubit
Princeton revising polices over mental health disabilities. [SEP] Privacy in education // top Princeton admissions official. Some say that acts like these raise the issues of student record privacy in the digital world. University of Oregon In 2015 a woman who said she was raped by three basketball players sued the University of Oregon for disclosing her mental health records to an attorney. This case gave rise to employees from the counseling center to write an open letter to the university community as a form to show that they were disturbed by the university's actions. Yet, officials argue that because the women claimed to have emotional distress then the university had the
Princeton revising polices over mental health disabilities. [SEP] Montgomery Township, New Jersey // wastewater treatment facility and an on-site landfill. Later, it became the New Jersey Neuropsychiatric Institute. Most recently, and until 1998, the property was the New Jersey Department of Human Services' psychiatric care facility "North Princeton Developmental Center". For years there were over 100 buildings on the Property, mostly in substandard, unsafe, unsanitary, dilapidated and/or obsolescent condition. Ninety-two of these buildings were abated and demolished summer 2007. The remaining handful of buildings have been boarded up in anticipation of possible reuse as part of redevelopment. Efforts are ongoing to remediate environmental conditions at the site and repair or demolish the dam
Princeton revising polices over mental health disabilities. [SEP] North Princeton Developmental Center // North Princeton Developmental Center The North Princeton Developmental Center, formerly known as the New Jersey State Village for Epileptics, was a medical facility within Montgomery Township, Somerset County, New Jersey. The facility was home to a variety of mental health institutions throughout the years. In 2011, the former self-sustaining mental health village was slated for demolition to make space for a proposed county park. Demolition was completed in 2012 with plans to begin construction of the conceptual park in 2013. The facility garnered much notoriety over the past decades due to its "ghost town" appearance and mention in the popular
Princeton revising polices over mental health disabilities. [SEP] Office for Civil Rights // announced that it had found Princeton University in violation of Title IX. The Office and Princeton reached an agreement on a package of procedural reforms to bring it into compliance including mandatory training, a public awareness and bystander intervention campaign, reexamination of three years of past sexual violence complaints, improved coordination with law enforcement, and expanded documentation of sexual violence on campus. Office for Civil Rights The Office for Civil Rights (OCR) is a sub-agency of the U.S. Department of Education that is primarily focused on enforcing civil rights laws prohibiting schools from engaging in discrimination on the basis of
Princeton revising polices over mental health disabilities. [SEP] Police reform in the United States // the 2010s is the interactions between police officers and individuals with mental illness. "Twenty-five percent or more of people fatally shot by the police have had a mental disorder, according to various analyses." Experts in criminal justice say that funding for mental health services in many parts of the country is insufficient, so police are likely to encounter mentally ill people. In response to negative reactions from the public to high-profile violent interactions between police and mentally ill individuals, some police departments are increasing their specialized training and changing their tactics for their interactions with mentally ill people. For example,
Princeton revising polices over mental health disabilities. [SEP] New York Civil Liberties Union // NYCLU's position that students are entitled to a hearing when threatened with suspension. During the same year, a federal court approved a consent decree in the Willowbrook case that establishes comprehensive and detailed treatment standards for the mentally disabled. Finally, in a test case brought by the NYCLU, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled the mentally ill cannot be held against their will if they pose no danger to themselves or others. In 1976, ten years of lobbying by NYCLU resulted in enactment of state legislation that requires criminal records be expunged when charges are terminated in favor of the accused.
Princeton revising polices over mental health disabilities. [SEP] Richard Bonnie // Among many other positions, he has been associate director of the National Commission on Marihuana and Drug Abuse (1971–73); secretary of the first National Advisory Council on Drug Abuse (1975–80); chair of Virginia's State Human Rights Committee responsible for protecting rights of persons with mental disabilities (1979–85), chief advisor for the ABA Criminal Justice Mental Health Standards Project (1981–88) and Chair of the Commission on Mental Health Law Reform established by the Chief Justice of Virginia (2006–11). Bonnie has served as an advisor to the American Psychiatric Association Council on Psychiatry and Law since 1979, received the American Psychiatric Association's
Princeton revising polices over mental health disabilities. [SEP] United States v. City of Portland // publicized press conference June 8, 2011, Assistant U.S. Attorney General Thomas E. Perez announced the launch of an investigation to determine whether the Portland Police Bureau engaged in a pattern or practice of excessive or unnecessary use-of-force in their interactions with persons in a protected class, people with actual or perceived mental health disabilities, and whether such conduct deprived individuals of their rights secured by the Fourth and Fourteenth Amendments of the U.S. Constitution. The 18-month-long investigation was prompted by the high number of Portland police officer-involved deaths that involved individuals with mental illness, including Kendra James, James Jahar Perez,
Princeton revising polices over mental health disabilities. [SEP] American Civil Liberties Union of New Jersey // a course at Rutgers Law School. Prior to serving as Special Counsel, Barocas was an Assistant Deputy Public Advocate for the Division of Mental Health Advocacy in Wall, New Jersey, where he advocated for the rights of the mentally ill on individual and hospital-wide bases. He negotiated reform of adolescent behavioral programs and proposed a policy for community placements and for the closure of a psychiatric hospital, which was presented by the Protection and Advocacy Advisory Council to Governor Whitman and was later adopted. Barocas also has copyrights for over 40 comedy and political parody songs. He has performed with
Princeton revising polices over mental health disabilities. [SEP] Ewing v. Goldstein // Ewing v. Goldstein Ewing v. Goldstein (Cal. Ct. App. 2004) is a landmark court case that extended California mental health professional's duty to protect identifiable victims of potentially violent persons, as established by Tarasoff v. Regents of the University of California, to include acting upon communications from third parties that indicate a possible threat. In the "Factual and Procedural Background" section of its ruling, the appellate court found the following facts: Between 1997 and 2001, former police officer Gene Colello received treatment from David Goldstein. One of reasons for seeking treatment was the depression that Colello was experiencing after breaking
According to (Barack) Obama’s newest unconstitutionally enacted law, health care professionals are now required to violate HIPAA privacy laws and submit medical data to the government," which is "then used as justification for gun confiscation. [SEP] Firearm Owners' Privacy Act // to patients if they do not answer questions about guns. Soon after the law was signed by Governor Rick Scott on June 2, 2011, several physicians and physician organizations filed a lawsuit in federal court challenging it. On June 29, 2012, United States District Court for the Southern District of Florida judge Marcia G. Cooke issued a permanent injunction against FOPA on the basis that it unduly burdened physicians' right to free speech. Governor Scott responded by filing an appeal of Cooke's ruling, which sent the case to the United States Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit. In 2014,
According to (Barack) Obama’s newest unconstitutionally enacted law, health care professionals are now required to violate HIPAA privacy laws and submit medical data to the government," which is "then used as justification for gun confiscation. [SEP] Firearm Owners' Privacy Act // Firearm Owners' Privacy Act The Firearm Owners' Privacy Act (often abbreviated FOPA) is a law passed by the Florida Legislature in 2011 in response to concerns raised by Floridians whose physicians asked them about gun ownership. The law bans doctors in the state from asking their patients about guns, and from entering information about guns into patients' medical records. However, doctors are allowed to do both of these things under the law provided they believe it is relevant to the medical care or safety of their patients or the safety of others. The law also prevents physicians from denying care
According to (Barack) Obama’s newest unconstitutionally enacted law, health care professionals are now required to violate HIPAA privacy laws and submit medical data to the government," which is "then used as justification for gun confiscation. [SEP] Firearm Owners' Privacy Act // the law, barring physician discrimination against patients who own guns, not to regulate speech, upholding the provision on that basis. Firearm Owners' Privacy Act The Firearm Owners' Privacy Act (often abbreviated FOPA) is a law passed by the Florida Legislature in 2011 in response to concerns raised by Floridians whose physicians asked them about gun ownership. The law bans doctors in the state from asking their patients about guns, and from entering information about guns into patients' medical records. However, doctors are allowed to do both of these things under the law provided they believe it is relevant to the
According to (Barack) Obama’s newest unconstitutionally enacted law, health care professionals are now required to violate HIPAA privacy laws and submit medical data to the government," which is "then used as justification for gun confiscation. [SEP] Reactions to Kauhajoki school shooting // introducing legislation to aid police officers in accessing information about the mental and physical health of applicants for firearms licenses, and the right to request further information if the applicant had a history of using medication. The question whether or not private persons should be allowed to own handguns was also raised. The Finnish Police increased Internet surveillance, and investigated over 200 threats against schools. In November the police announced the increased surveillance had stopped a potential attack against a school. At the affected college all lessons were cancelled for the remainder of the week, and classes were relocated to
According to (Barack) Obama’s newest unconstitutionally enacted law, health care professionals are now required to violate HIPAA privacy laws and submit medical data to the government," which is "then used as justification for gun confiscation. [SEP] Medical privacy // government is exempted from privacy rules regarding national security. HIPAA additionally allows the authorization of protected health information (PHI) in order to aid in threats to public health and safety as long as it follows the good faith requirement - the idea that disclosing of information is necessary to the benefit of the public. The Model State Emergency Powers Act (MSEHPA) gives the government the power to “suspend regulations, seize property, quarantine individuals and enforce vaccinations” and requires that healthcare providers give information regarding potential health emergencies". In regards to Hurricane Katrina, many people in Louisiana relied on Medicaid and
According to (Barack) Obama’s newest unconstitutionally enacted law, health care professionals are now required to violate HIPAA privacy laws and submit medical data to the government," which is "then used as justification for gun confiscation. [SEP] Reactions to Kauhajoki school shooting // for this, but you can certainly ask how much the Web feeds the dark side of human nature". Like those in the police force, many in the medical profession were reluctant to abide by the new laws. From September 30, gun applicants had to hand in a medical health evaluation (certifying that they were mentally sound enough to bear arms), carried out by a doctor, to gain access to a weapon. The Finnish Medical Association opposed this on the grounds that doctors were already overburdened with work, and Basic Services Minister Paula Risikko suggested that more medical workers could be
According to (Barack) Obama’s newest unconstitutionally enacted law, health care professionals are now required to violate HIPAA privacy laws and submit medical data to the government," which is "then used as justification for gun confiscation. [SEP] Medical privacy // public health benefits, safety, and research while protecting the medical information of individuals. Yet many times, privacy is compromised for the benefits of the research and public health. According to HIPAA, the covered entities that must follow the law's set mandates are health plans, health care clearinghouses, and health care providers that electronically transmit PHI. Business associates of these covered entities are also subject to HIPAA's rules and regulations. In 2008, Congress passed the Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act of 2008 (GINA), which aimed to prohibit genetic discrimination for individuals seeking health insurance and employment. The law also included a provision
According to (Barack) Obama’s newest unconstitutionally enacted law, health care professionals are now required to violate HIPAA privacy laws and submit medical data to the government," which is "then used as justification for gun confiscation. [SEP] 2014 Fort Hood shooting // federal medical privacy laws. Previously, in the wake of the aforementioned 2009 Fort Hood shooting, information sharing regarding medical history was among 78 recommendations suggested to identify the risk of violent behavior. However, this recommendation was not implemented due to "constraints on exchanging information between military and civilian behavioral health care providers". The 2015 report recommended improvements with the level of contact between commanders and their newly assigned soldiers, and that soldiers should register personally owned weapons with their commanders. Ivan A. Lopez-Lopez (October 23, 1979 – April 2, 2014) was an Iraq War veteran who was born in Ponce,
According to (Barack) Obama’s newest unconstitutionally enacted law, health care professionals are now required to violate HIPAA privacy laws and submit medical data to the government," which is "then used as justification for gun confiscation. [SEP] Physician gag law // Physician gag law In the United States, a physician gag law is a law that prohibits physicians from asking their patients about whether the patient owns a gun. In some cases, these laws may also restrict the ability of physicians to counsel their patients about gun safety. The term was first used to describe the "Firearm Owners' Privacy Act," a law that was supported by the National Rifle Association and passed in Florida in 2011, which prohibited doctors from “making written inquiry or asking questions concerning the ownership of a firearm or ammunition by the patient or by a family
According to (Barack) Obama’s newest unconstitutionally enacted law, health care professionals are now required to violate HIPAA privacy laws and submit medical data to the government," which is "then used as justification for gun confiscation. [SEP] Data mining // US Congress via the passage of regulatory controls such as the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA). The HIPAA requires individuals to give their "informed consent" regarding information they provide and its intended present and future uses. According to an article in "Biotech Business Week", "'[i]n practice, HIPAA may not offer any greater protection than the longstanding regulations in the research arena,' says the AAHC. More importantly, the rule's goal of protection through informed consent is approach a level of incomprehensibility to average individuals." This underscores the necessity for data anonymity in data aggregation and mining practices. U.S. information
Mike Coffman Says state Sen. Morgan Carroll's votes made "it easier to sue doctors, small businesses, even nurses. Putting her own shady interests first. [SEP] Morgan Carroll // re-election in 2012 with 59% of the vote, defeating Republican Bill Ross and Libertarian Michele Poague. Carroll sponsored lobbying disclosure laws in 2006 and 2014. During her first year in office, she refused to discuss legislative issues with lobbyists during debate, a practice that led them to complain about her to the Democratic leadership. Her first bill, a workers compensation measure that would allow injured workers to choose their own doctors, was opposed by 240 lobbyists and ultimately failed, as did the other two bills Carroll submitted that year. She is considered an environmentalist, and has been criticized by lobbyists
Mike Coffman Says state Sen. Morgan Carroll's votes made "it easier to sue doctors, small businesses, even nurses. Putting her own shady interests first. [SEP] Morgan Carroll // $10,000 as of September 2016. Carroll raised the majority of her contributions from individual donors. Americans For Prosperity, the conservative advocacy organization backed by the Koch family, alleged that Carroll had conflicts of interest while serving in the state senate. "The Denver Post" rated the claim somewhat true and wrote that AFP's claim of a conflict of interest was not true in that Carroll had not benefited from the bill, but that the Colorado Ethics Board of the General Assembly had ruled that lawmakers should proactively disclose "potential" conflicts of interest. After an unsuccessful campaign to become the next congressional
Mike Coffman Says state Sen. Morgan Carroll's votes made "it easier to sue doctors, small businesses, even nurses. Putting her own shady interests first. [SEP] Morgan Carroll // for oil and gas companies. In 2013, Carroll and fellow Democratic Representative Rhonda Fields sponsored Colorado House Bill 1229, which mandates universal background checks for gun purchases in the state. Carroll was the 2016 Democratic nominee in Colorado's 6th congressional district. She was defeated by incumbent Republican Representative Mike Coffman in the general election, in which she won 42% of the vote. Carroll was endorsed by Democratic Colorado Governor John Hickenlooper, Planned Parenthood, NARAL Pro-Choice America, EMILY's List, the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, and the League of Conservation Voters. A super PAC called Immigrant Voters Wins supported her, spending
Mike Coffman Says state Sen. Morgan Carroll's votes made "it easier to sue doctors, small businesses, even nurses. Putting her own shady interests first. [SEP] Mike Coffman // He won the Republican nomination in the primary election on June 24, 2014, unopposed. He faced Democrat Andrew Romanoff in the general election. Coffman won 52%–43%. Coffman ran for re-election in 2016 as the Republican nominee against Democratic State Senator Morgan Carroll. He defeated Carroll in the general election, winning 51% of the vote to Carroll's 42%. In July 2016, the conservative advocacy group Americans for Prosperity announced plans to launch a major advertising campaign opposing Carroll. Coffman subsequently held a public town hall meeting the following April, where he was challenged and often times shouted down by residents of
Mike Coffman Says state Sen. Morgan Carroll's votes made "it easier to sue doctors, small businesses, even nurses. Putting her own shady interests first. [SEP] Morgan Carroll // Morgan Carroll Morgan Lenore Carroll (born November 24, 1971) is an American politician from Colorado and is currently the Chairwoman of the Colorado Democratic Party. A Democrat, Carroll represented Colorado House District 36 in the city of Aurora from 2004 to 2008, and she represented the state's 29th Senate district from 2009 to 2017. Carroll served as President of the Colorado State Senate from 2013 to 2014 and as minority leader in 2015. Carroll stepped down as minority leader in July 2015 to unsuccessfully run against incumbent Republican Mike Coffman for Colorado's 6th congressional district in the U.S. House of
Mike Coffman Says state Sen. Morgan Carroll's votes made "it easier to sue doctors, small businesses, even nurses. Putting her own shady interests first. [SEP] Steve Beshear // and former governor Julian Carroll declared, "In all the years I've been around the Capitol, I can't recall people expecting so little from a legislative session." Carroll's pessimism was the result of Senate President David Williams' announcement that he would challenge Beshear in the upcoming gubernatorial election, which Carroll believed would disincentivize cooperation between the two leaders. Among the items passed in the legislative session were a bill allowing optometrists to perform eye surgery (a procedure usually reserved for ophthalmologists), a ban on the sale of a psychoactive drug marketed as "bath salts", and a measure allowing community supervision and
Mike Coffman Says state Sen. Morgan Carroll's votes made "it easier to sue doctors, small businesses, even nurses. Putting her own shady interests first. [SEP] Mike Moore (American politician) // the initial round of balloting, behind Democratic state Senator Gene Taylor and Republican Tom Anderson. Taylor went on to defeat Anderson in the runoff. In 1994, he filed the first lawsuit against thirteen tobacco companies, claiming that they should reimburse the State for the costs of treating those with smoking-related illnesses. Attorneys General from several other states joined the suit, with Moore as the lead negotiator. The settlement was worth $246 billion to the states, including $4.1 billion for Mississippi. The Michael Mann-directed film "The Insider" portrays some of the events leading up to this settlement; Moore played himself in
Mike Coffman Says state Sen. Morgan Carroll's votes made "it easier to sue doctors, small businesses, even nurses. Putting her own shady interests first. [SEP] Nancy Argenziano // her legislative career, Argenziano switched to become an Independent in 2011. In 2001, Argenziano was involved in a notable incident in which she delivered 25 lbs of gift-wrapped cow manure to Jodi Chase, a lobbyist for Associated Industries of Florida. AIF represents nursing home providers in Florida and was supporting SB1202, a nursing home reform bill which sought to limit damages in cases where a death did not occur or injuries were not deemed serious. Argenziano was one of the only state senators opposing the bill. Chase apparently entered Argenziano's office uninvited to watch a floor debate around the bill,
Mike Coffman Says state Sen. Morgan Carroll's votes made "it easier to sue doctors, small businesses, even nurses. Putting her own shady interests first. [SEP] Morgan Carroll // during that time. Carroll graduated from Boulder High School in 1990. She worked various jobs, including at a gas station and fast-food restaurant, to pay for her education. She graduated from the University of Colorado Denver in 1996 and from the University of Colorado Law School in 2000. Carroll first ran for the Colorado House of Representatives District 36 in 2004, defeating Republican Jim Parker 55%-45%. She won reelection in 2006 with 62% of the vote against Republican Brian R. Boney. Carroll first ran for the Colorado State Senate District 29 in 2008, defeating Republican Suzanne Andrews 69%-31%. She won
Mike Coffman Says state Sen. Morgan Carroll's votes made "it easier to sue doctors, small businesses, even nurses. Putting her own shady interests first. [SEP] Debbie Wasserman Schultz // Protection Act, whose passage in 2010 was a legislative response to the financial crisis of 2007–08 and the subsequent Great Recession. During the Terri Schiavo case, she was one of the strongest opponents of congressional intervention. She publicly accused President George W. Bush of hypocrisy for signing a 1999 bill as Governor of Texas that allows health care workers to remove life support for terminally ill patients if the patient or family is unable to pay the medical bills. During the debate Wasserman Schultz pointed out that a Texas law signed by then Gov. Bush allowed caregivers to withhold treatment
Baby illness can be scanned in mother's blood: study. [SEP] Birth defect // information, enzyme replacement therapy and organ transplants. Different countries support the screening for a number of metabolic disorders (inborn errors of metabolism (IEM)), and genetic disorders including cystic fibrosis and Duchenne muscular dystrophy. Tandem mass spectroscopy can also be used for IEM, and investigation of sudden infant death, and shaken baby syndrome. Screening can also be carried out prenatally and can include obstetric ultrasonography to give scans such as the nuchal scan. 3D ultrasound scans can give detailed information of structural anomalies. Congenital anomalies resulted in about 632,000 deaths per year in 2013 down from 751,000 in 1990. The types
Baby illness can be scanned in mother's blood: study. [SEP] Cell-free fetal DNA // the fetus. Incompatibility of fetal and maternal RhD antigens is the main cause of Hemolytic disease of the newborn. Approximately 15 percent of Caucasian women, 3 to 5 percent of black Africa women and less than 3 percent of Asian women are RhD negative. Accurate prenatal diagnosis is important because the disease can be fatal to the newborn and because treatment including intramuscular immunoglobulin (Anti-D) or intravenous immunoglobulin can be administered to mothers at risk. PCR to detect RHD (gene) gene exons 5 and 7 from cffDNA obtained from maternal plasma between 9 and 13 weeks gestation gives a high
Baby illness can be scanned in mother's blood: study. [SEP] Rh disease // findings about a family who had a stillborn baby who died of hemolytic disease of the newborn. The mother was aged 25 and it was her second pregnancy and she suffered blood loss at the delivery. Both parents were blood group O and the husband's blood was used to give the mother a blood transfusion, but the mother suffered a severe transfusion reaction. They investigated this transfusion reaction. Since the mother and the father were both blood group O, they concluded that there must be a previously undiscovered blood group antigen that was present on the husband's RBCs (red blood
Baby illness can be scanned in mother's blood: study. [SEP] Blood type // with a blood type which is different from their own. In those cases, the mother can make IgG blood group antibodies. This can happen if some of the fetus' blood cells pass into the mother's blood circulation (e.g. a small fetomaternal hemorrhage at the time of childbirth or obstetric intervention), or sometimes after a therapeutic blood transfusion. This can cause Rh disease or other forms of hemolytic disease of the newborn (HDN) in the current pregnancy and/or subsequent pregnancies. Sometimes this is lethal for the fetus; in these cases it is called hydrops fetalis. If a pregnant woman is known
Baby illness can be scanned in mother's blood: study. [SEP] Sickle cell disease // urinary tract infection, and chest X-ray to look for occult pneumonia should be routinely performed. People who are known carriers of the disease often undergo genetic counseling before they have a child. A test to see if an unborn child has the disease takes either a blood sample from the fetus or a sample of amniotic fluid. Since taking a blood sample from a fetus has greater risks, the latter test is usually used. Neonatal screening provides not only a method of early detection for individuals with sickle cell disease, but also allows for identification of the groups of people
Baby illness can be scanned in mother's blood: study. [SEP] Hemolytic disease of the newborn (anti-Rhc) // no longer used due to risk of worsening the maternal antibody response. Once antigen status has been determined, assessment may be done with MCA scans. MCA scans Middle cerebral artery - peak systolic velocity is changing the way sensitized pregnancies are managed. This test is done noninvasively with ultrasound. By measuring the peak velocity of blood flow in the middle cerebral artery, a MoM (multiple of the median) score can be calculated. MoM of 1.5 or greater indicates severe anemia and should be treated with IUT. There are several intervention options available in early, mid and late pregnancies. In some
Baby illness can be scanned in mother's blood: study. [SEP] Prenatal testing // (Down syndrome), trisomy 18 (Edward syndrome), and trisomy 13 (Patau syndrome) was possible. This method of noninvasive diagnosis is now starting to be heavily used and researched further. Fetal components in samples from maternal blood plasma can be analyzed by genome-wide techniques not only by total DNA, but also by methylated DNA immunoprecipitation (with tiling array), microRNA (such as with Megaplex) and total RNA (RNA-sequencing). Research was conducted to determine how women felt about noninvasive diagnosis of fetal aneuploid using maternal blood. This study was conducted using surveys. It was reported that eighty-two percent of pregnant women and seventy-nine percent
Baby illness can be scanned in mother's blood: study. [SEP] Newborn screening // sickle cell disease, and blood transfusions are used for patients identified with severe thalassemia. Most jurisdictions did not start screening for any of the organic acidemias before tandem mass spectrometry significantly expanded the list of disorders detectable by newborn screening. Quebec has run a voluntary second-tier screening program since 1971 using urine samples collected at three weeks of age to screen for an expanded list of organic acidemias using a thin layer chromatography method. Newborn screening using tandem mass spectrometry can detect several organic acidemias, including propionic acidemia, methylmalonic acidemia and isovaleric acidemia. Cystic fibrosis (CF) was first added to
Baby illness can be scanned in mother's blood: study. [SEP] R. Palmer Beasley // from mothers to babies, since that's the commonest way in nature that blood is shared between people. With that hypothesis I went to Taiwan and, with the Abbott Laboratories test, began screening and detecting carrier pregnant women in the obstetric clinics at the hospitals in Taipei. After some months of doing this, we had determined that almost 20% of the mothers in Taiwan were hepatitis B carriers, which is a phenomenally high rate." That figure contrasts sharply to a rate of less than 1% in the U.S. "About 40% of the babies of those carrier-mothers became infected," said Beasley. Beasley
Baby illness can be scanned in mother's blood: study. [SEP] Cell-free fetal DNA // cffDNA from the plasma of 3 of 25 women with female fetuses contained the Y chromosome-specific signal. The sensitivity of nested PCR in this experiment was 96 percent. The specificity was 88 percent. Microfluidic devices allow the quantification of cffDNA segments in maternal plasma with accuracy beyond that of real-time PCR. Point mutations, loss of heterozygosity and aneuploidy can be detected in a single PCR step. Digital PCR can differentiate between maternal blood plasma and fetal DNA in a multiplex fashion. High throughput shotgun sequencing using tools such as Solexa or Illumina, yields approximately 5 million sequence tags per sample
Sen. Harry Reid voted "against declaring English our national language, twice. [SEP] Political positions of Harry Reid // (R-UT) and Richard Durbin (D-IL) Reid opposed a Constitutional amendment to make English the national language of the United States, calling the proposal "racist." Reid's positions on immigration have changed considerably over a relatively short period of time. Only fifteen years ago his position was in favor of sharply reducing legal immigration and of not amnestying undocumented entrants and overstays. Reid voted in January 1991 to authorize military force in Iraq to liberate Kuwait. On the Senate floor, Reid quoted from John F. Kennedy's 1963 State of the Union speech by saying "the mere absence of war is not Peace".
Sen. Harry Reid voted "against declaring English our national language, twice. [SEP] Harry Reid // John F. Kennedy's 1963 State of the Union speech on the Senate floor, saying "the mere absence of war is not peace." He also voted in support of the 2003 invasion of Iraq. In March 2007, he voted in favor of "redeploying U.S. troops out of Iraq by March 2008", and later that year, said, "As long as we follow [President Bush's] path in Iraq, the war is lost." Reid is a strong advocate of recognizing the Armenian genocide. Reid advocated outlawing prostitution in Nevada. On May 15, 2013, Reid revealed to reporters that his niece is a lesbian as
Sen. Harry Reid voted "against declaring English our national language, twice. [SEP] Emmett Louis Murphy // Senate File 160, known as the Foreign Language Bill, which would make illegal the teaching in “private, denominational, parochial, or public schools” of any subject in any language other than English, stating in a speech, “I fought that vicious foreign language bill” ”. He ran 12th in the primary where only 10 would advance to the general election. Although two of the 12 subsequently dropped out, his request to be added to the definition was denied. However his public stature was quite grown, and in February 1937 he was notified that he would be accepted as assistant to the District
Sen. Harry Reid voted "against declaring English our national language, twice. [SEP] Scott Reid (politician) // the House of Commons and Senate Standing Committees on Official Languages. The comment provoked an immediate reaction from Prime Minister Paul Martin, who warned that Reid’s proposals reflected “the kind of Canada that Stephen Harper wants." Georges Arès, the president of the Fédération des communautés francophones et acadiennes, also expressed concern. Reid clarified that his views did not represent Conservative Party policy, and he resigned as the party’s official languages critic later the same day. Some in the media felt that both the controversy and Reid’s reaction had been overblown. An editorial in the "National Post" argued that “perhaps no
Sen. Harry Reid voted "against declaring English our national language, twice. [SEP] English-only movement // ProEnglish rejects the term "English-only movement" and asks its supporters to refer to the movement instead as "Official English". The U.S. Senate voted on two separate changes to an immigration bill in May 2006. The amended bill recognized English as a "common and unifying language" and gave contradictory instructions to government agencies on their obligations for non-English publications. In what was essentially a replay of the 2006 actions, on June 6, 2007 the US Senate again voted on two separate amendments to a subsequent immigration reform bill that closely resembled the amendments to the 2006 Senate bill. On January 22,
Sen. Harry Reid voted "against declaring English our national language, twice. [SEP] Inhofe Amendment // diminish or expand any existing rights" regarding multilingual services. It passed 58-39. Inhofe proposed his amendment, saying that there should not be a right to demand that government business be conducted in any other language, that there is a unifying effect with a common language, and indicating the importance of knowing English to get ahead in America. Senator Harry Reid, Democrat from Nevada, called the amendment "racist" in a speech before the Senate, arguing that it targeted speakers of Spanish. Senators Bunning (R-KY), Martinez (R-FL), Rockefeller (D-WV) did not vote. Inhofe Amendment The Inhofe Amendment was an amendment to the
Sen. Harry Reid voted "against declaring English our national language, twice. [SEP] Bob Menendez // for both bills. Menendez voted against Senate Amendment 1151, declaring English as the national language of the Federal government of the United States. He voted for the Secure Fence Act of 2006, building 700 miles (1,100 km) of physical barriers and expanding surveillance at the Mexico-United States border, and was a supporter of Senate Amendment 4775, a provision Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2007 which would have appropriated $1.8 billion for the construction of of triple-layered fencing, and of vehicle barriers along parts of the Southwest. On January 28, 2013, Menendez was a member of a bi-partisan group of eight
Sen. Harry Reid voted "against declaring English our national language, twice. [SEP] English-only movement // States' national language that would have made "American" the national language in order to differentiate the United States's language from that of England. This bill did not pass in Congress despite significant support—especially from Irish immigrants who were resentful of British influence. In 1907, US President Theodore Roosevelt wrote, "We have room for but one language in this country, and that is the English language, for we intend to see that the crucible turns our people out as Americans, of American nationality, and not as dwellers in a polyglot boarding house." U.S. English, the nation's oldest and largest organization advocating
Sen. Harry Reid voted "against declaring English our national language, twice. [SEP] Scott Reid (politician) // the existing system of official bilingualism, adding that its recommendations were "sensible" and "very difficult to refute". The "Calgary Herald" described the book as “a remarkable study: Informed, provocative, even visionary.” In a 1996 essay, "Penumbras for the People", (1996) Reid advocated the adoption of a law that would permit Parliament to invoke Section 33 of the "Charter of Rights" (the so-called "Notwithstanding Clause", which permits Parliament and the provincial legislatures to re-enact laws that have been struck down by the courts as being in violation of the Charter), only if its use had first been authorized in a national
Sen. Harry Reid voted "against declaring English our national language, twice. [SEP] Political positions of Harry Reid // voted against the bill. "The Wall Street Journal's" editorial page called his vote, in context with his earlier statement, "Reid's "mission accomplished" moment". Reid supports a constitutional amendment to prevent flag desecration. Reid has also criticized Senate Republicans for bringing up anti-desecration legislation, calling it one of "the 'pet' issues of the right wing". Reid strongly supports use of the death penalty, having voted in favor of limiting death penalties appeals and executing criminals who were minors when they committed their crime. Reid supports legislation that would cut $15 billion in tax breaks for large oil companies and put the
Women "are still paid 82 cents for every dollar a man earns in Texas. [SEP] Women's empowerment // where women are paid less than men are for performing the same job. When taking the median earnings of men and women who worked full-time, year-round, government data from 2014 showed that women made $0.79 for every dollar a man earned. The average earnings for working mothers came out to even less—$0.71 for every dollar a father made, according to a 2014 study conducted by the National Partnership for Women and Children. While much of the public discussion of the "wage gap" has focused around women getting equal pay for the same work as their male peers, many women struggle
Women "are still paid 82 cents for every dollar a man earns in Texas. [SEP] Pink-collar worker // and for simply trying to lighten the mood by laughing or talking while they worked. In the 1937 a woman's average yearly salary was $525 compared to a man's salary of $1,027. In the 1940s two-thirds of the women who were in the labor force suffered a decrease in earnings; the average weekly paychecks fell from $50 to $37. This gap in wage stayed consistent, as women in 1991 only earned seventy percent of what men earned regardless of their education. Later on in the 1970s and 1980s as women began to fight for equality, they fought against discrimination in
Women "are still paid 82 cents for every dollar a man earns in Texas. [SEP] Gender in public administration // exactly the same job. Though equality in this aspect has improved, it still isn't truly equal. (Equal Pay Act of 1963 helped to change this). These cultural holdovers from early eras have influenced the current inequity in pay that still persists today - women currently earn 77.8 cents for every dollar that a man earns. According to Domonic A. Bearfield of Texas A & M University, "this is particularly true for female federal employees. According to Hsieh and Win-slow (2006), although women have made gains in overall representation, inequality exists among women of different racial and ethnic groups." Often when
Women "are still paid 82 cents for every dollar a man earns in Texas. [SEP] Glass ceiling // EU Member States in 2008. A paper by political activist website "nationalpartnership.org" suggests that as of April 2017, women in the United States were on average paid "80 cents for every dollar paid to men, amounting to an annual gender wage gap of $10,470". It may help from a research perspective to note that there are many disagreeing viewpoints on this issue, and the research cited here is presented in favor of the side that asserts society's view on minorities is the cause of the pay gap. Moreover, "based on the human capital theory, not only the general gender-specific pay
Women "are still paid 82 cents for every dollar a man earns in Texas. [SEP] Equal pay for equal work // pay equity study in 1973 and another in 1977. The results clearly showed that when comparing male and female dominated jobs there was almost no overlap between the averages for similar jobs and in every sector, a twenty percent gap emerged. For example, a food service worker earned $472 per month, and a Delivery Truck Driver earned $792, though they were both given the same amount of "points" on the scale of comparable worth to the state. Unfortunately for the state, and for the female state workers, his successor Governor Dixie Lee Ray failed to implement the recommendations of the
Women "are still paid 82 cents for every dollar a man earns in Texas. [SEP] Women Employed // goals, and identify local education and training resources. Despite many improvements in women's economic status over the past three decades, employment discrimination and unfairness in the workplace are still a fact of life for many women. On average, women make only 80 cents for every dollar a man makes, and can lose an immense amount of wages over a lifetime due to the wage gap which persists despite education level. A disproportionate number of women are clustered in low-paying, part-time jobs, often without benefits or dependable hours. Women Employed promotes equal pay, fair workplace practices, and work-family balance. Women Employed
Women "are still paid 82 cents for every dollar a man earns in Texas. [SEP] Chicken Ranch (Texas) // Chicken Ranch was preferred because many of the girls were allegedly University of Texas students. Each prostitute would have between five and twenty customers per day. In the 1950s, they were charged $15 for fifteen minutes ($ in today's terms). The employees were required to give 75% of their earnings to Milton, who paid for all of their living and medical expenses. At its peak in the 1960s, the ranch earned more than $500,000 per year ($ in today's terms), with the prostitutes keeping an additional $300 per week for themselves ($ in today's terms). Edna Milton Chadwell died in
Women "are still paid 82 cents for every dollar a man earns in Texas. [SEP] Laredo, Texas // depends on changes to Mexico's economy, that status of immigration laws (along with daily border crossings: shoppers and commercial trade), and terrorism. In 2014, according to the financial research company NerdWallet, Laredo had the worst pay for women of any city in the United States, with a large gender gap: an average annual salary of $24,700 for women, compared to nearly $35,000 for men. The gender pay gap in Laredo increased 25 percent between 2007 and 2012. Only the wealthy city of Frisco in the Dallas-Fort Worth metroplex, had a greater pay gap within Texas than did Laredo. According to
Women "are still paid 82 cents for every dollar a man earns in Texas. [SEP] Gender pay gap in the United States // women with the smallest pay gap relative to white men. The average woman is expected to earn $430,480 less than the average white man over a lifetime. Native American women can expect to earn $883,040 less, Black women earn $877,480 less, and Latina women earn $1,007,080 less over a lifetime. Asian American women's lifetime pay deficit is $365,440. Any given raw wage gap can be dissected into an "explained" part, due to differences in characteristics such as education, hours worked, work experience, and occupation, and/or an "unexplained" part, which is typically attributed to discrimination. This may be further explained when
Women "are still paid 82 cents for every dollar a man earns in Texas. [SEP] California Fair Pay Act // than the rates paid to employees of the opposite sex in the same establishment for equal work on jobs". Because of the vagueness of this law, employers are able to find loopholes and pay women in California much lower than their male co-workers. As of 2015, female workers make only 80 cents for every dollar earned by male workers thus putting the gender wage gap of 20%. Over 38.8 billion dollars is lost due to the wage gap between men and women. On October 6, 2015, Governor Jerry Brown signed the bill into law and the amendment took effect on
Facebook post Says Anthony Fauci, Bill Gates, George Soros and Jeffrey Epstein are connected with Moderna, Inc., and its efforts to create the coronavirus vaccine. [SEP] Ciro de Quadros // Janeiro, Brazil, 1968. In 2003, de Quadros joined the Sabin Vaccine Institute, a non-profit organization honoring the legacy of Albert Sabin, developer of the oral polio vaccine. de Quadros is instrumental in the Institute's international immunization advocacy programs, where he works on issues such as the introduction of new vaccines, e.g. rotavirus, rubella, human papilloma virus, pneumococcal and others, and on issues related to the sustainability of national immunization programs. He is also on the faculty at Johns Hopkins School of Hygiene and Public Health and the School of Medicine of the George Washington University. He died of pancreatic cancer
Facebook post Says Anthony Fauci, Bill Gates, George Soros and Jeffrey Epstein are connected with Moderna, Inc., and its efforts to create the coronavirus vaccine. [SEP] Moderna // programs. Moderna will fund and lead discovery and preclinical development. AstraZeneca will lead early clinical development. The companies will share late-stage development costs and co-commercialize products in US with 50:50 profit sharing. In January 2016, Moderna announced a new agreement with Merck to license a vaccine program for an undisclosed virus – mRNA 1566 and a group of related new vaccine candidates. In June 2016, Moderna entered into a new collaboration with Merck to develop mRNA-based personalized cancer vaccines to treat multiple types of cancer. Moderna received a $200 million upfront payment to lead R&D efforts through proof-of-concept and to
Facebook post Says Anthony Fauci, Bill Gates, George Soros and Jeffrey Epstein are connected with Moderna, Inc., and its efforts to create the coronavirus vaccine. [SEP] Moderna // well as a $50 million equity investment in Moderna. In May 2015, Moderna launched Elpidera, a venture focused exclusively on developing messenger RNA (mRNA) based medicines for the treatment of rare diseases. On October 22, 2015, Moderna launched its fourth venture, Caperna, focused on personalized cancer vaccines. In January 2016, Moderna announced the start of a Phase 1 clinical study in Europe for mRNA 1440 and filed an IND with the U.S. FDA for mRNA 1851. mRNA 1440 and mRNA 1851 are infectious disease vaccines. In January 2016, Moderna and AstraZeneca announced a new collaboration to develop two mRNA immuno-oncology
Facebook post Says Anthony Fauci, Bill Gates, George Soros and Jeffrey Epstein are connected with Moderna, Inc., and its efforts to create the coronavirus vaccine. [SEP] Richard Schlegel // on the E5, E6, and E7 proteins of the human papillomavirus. In 1988, Schlegel began working with A. Bennett Jenson, a member of the Georgetown University faculty. When Schlegel began working as an associate professor at Georgetown University in 1990, their work gained momentum. In 1995, they published a paper in the "Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences" that demonstrated that their vaccine could protect against a virus like that seen in cervical cancer. The main patent on the vaccine was granted in 2005, and the Food and Drug Administration approved it in June 2006. In 2003, Schlegel became
Facebook post Says Anthony Fauci, Bill Gates, George Soros and Jeffrey Epstein are connected with Moderna, Inc., and its efforts to create the coronavirus vaccine. [SEP] Trevor Neilson // the United Nations and the International AIDS Vaccine Initiative. In this role, Neilson was asked by Bobby Shriver, son of Sargent and Eunice Shriver and nephew of President John F. Kennedy if Bill Gates would support an idea that he and Bono, the Irish musician and activist had. Shriver and Bono wanted to create a version of the National Rifle Association for the poorest people in the world, specifically Africans who lived under a dollar a day and grappled with AIDS, Tuberculosis, Malaria, famine and other problems. Shriver and Bono’s idea was to create a powerful political voice for these
Facebook post Says Anthony Fauci, Bill Gates, George Soros and Jeffrey Epstein are connected with Moderna, Inc., and its efforts to create the coronavirus vaccine. [SEP] Middle East respiratory syndrome // pneumonia and acute renal failure. After routine diagnostics failed to identify the causative agent, Zaki contacted Ron Fouchier, a leading virologist at the Erasmus Medical Center (EMC) in Rotterdam, the Netherlands, for advice. Fouchier sequenced the virus from a sample sent by Zaki. Fouchier used a broad-spectrum "pan-coronavirus" real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) method to test for distinguishing features of a number of known coronaviruses (such as OC43, 229R, NL63, and SARS-CoV), as well as for RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp), a gene conserved in all coronaviruses known to infect humans. While the screens for known coronaviruses were all negative, the
Facebook post Says Anthony Fauci, Bill Gates, George Soros and Jeffrey Epstein are connected with Moderna, Inc., and its efforts to create the coronavirus vaccine. [SEP] Hilary Koprowski // the vaccine was being used on four continents. Albert Sabin's early work with attenuated-live-virus polio vaccine was developed from attenuated polio virus that Sabin had received from Koprowski. In addition to his work on the Polio vaccine, Koprowski (along with Stanley Plotkin and Tadeusz Wiktor) did significant work on an improved vaccine against rabies. The group developed the HCDV rabies vaccine in the 1960s at the Wistar Institute. It was licensed for use in the United States in 1980. Koprowski was President of Biotechnology Foundation Laboratories, Inc, and Head of the Center for Neurovirology at Thomas Jefferson University. In 2006
Facebook post Says Anthony Fauci, Bill Gates, George Soros and Jeffrey Epstein are connected with Moderna, Inc., and its efforts to create the coronavirus vaccine. [SEP] Leslie Collier // 1998 award in the advanced edited book category.<br>He was also joint editor of Developments in Antiviral Chemotherapy (1980).He was a co-author of Human Virology (1993). Leslie Collier Leslie Harold Collier (9 February 1921 – 14 March 2011) was a scientist responsible for developing a freeze-drying method to produce a more heat stable smallpox vaccine in the late 1940s. The development of his vaccine production method played a large role in enabling the World Health Organization to initiate its global smallpox eradication campaign in 1967. Collier was a co-editor of the eighth edition and editor-in-chief of the five-volume ninth edition of
Facebook post Says Anthony Fauci, Bill Gates, George Soros and Jeffrey Epstein are connected with Moderna, Inc., and its efforts to create the coronavirus vaccine. [SEP] George Siber // 2014 he co-founded Affinivax together with Richard Malley, Fan Zhang, Yingjie Lu, Steve Brugger, and Kamran Tavangar with seed funding from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, and serves on the Board of Directors. Siber joined ClearPath Vaccine Company in 2012 and became its Chief Scientific Officer in 2013. Siber was appointed to the Board of Trustees of the International Vaccine Institute in Korea in 2014 and chairs the Board's Science Committee. Siber has served on numerous scientific advisory committees including Variation Biotechnologies in Cambridge (2008–09), Ligocyte Pharmaceuticals in Bozeman, Missouri (2008–12), Ancora Pharmaceuticals Medford, Massachusetts (2008–12), Prothena Biosciences (previously
Facebook post Says Anthony Fauci, Bill Gates, George Soros and Jeffrey Epstein are connected with Moderna, Inc., and its efforts to create the coronavirus vaccine. [SEP] Hilary Koprowski // he is chair of the department of radiation oncology at Christiana Hospital in Delaware. While at Lederle Laboratories, Koprowski created the world's first polio vaccine, based on an orally administered attenuated polio virus. In researching a potential polio vaccine, he had focused on live viruses that were attenuated (rendered non-virulent) rather than on killed viruses (the latter became the basis for the injected vaccine subsequently developed by Jonas Salk). Koprowski viewed the live vaccine as more powerful, since it entered the intestinal tract directly and could provide lifelong immunity, whereas the Salk vaccine required booster shots. Also, administering a vaccine
NJ targets pollution in poorer areas with 6 lawsuits. [SEP] ExxonMobil // Environmental Protection sued ExxonMobil for $8.9 billion for lost wetland resources at Constable Hook in Bayonne and Bayway Refinery in Linden. Although a New Jersey Superior Court justice was believed to be close to a ruling, the Christie Administration repeatedly asked the judge to wait, since they were reaching a settlement with ExxonMobil's attorneys. On Friday, February 19th, 2015, lawyers for the Christie administration informed the judge that a deal had been reached. Details of the $225 million settlement - roughly 3% of what the state originally sought - were not immediately released. Christopher Porrino served as Chief Counsel to
NJ targets pollution in poorer areas with 6 lawsuits. [SEP] Passaic River // and Tierra Solutions Inc. to clean a portion of the polluted river. A New Jersey Superior Court judge, ruling in July and September 2011, stated that Occidental and Maxus Exergy Corporation (a subsidiary of YPF) are liable for remediation in other portions of the river. In 2013, several corporate defendants agreed to pay the State of New Jersey $130 million for ecological damages related to Passaic River pollution. However, it is unclear as to whether the state will actually use this money for clean-up efforts. The New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection (NJDEP) has issued notices banning commercial fishing and
NJ targets pollution in poorer areas with 6 lawsuits. [SEP] Allegheny Energy // causes smog, acid rain, and different respiratory disease. "New Jersey continues to pursue litigation to protect our citizens' health and meet clean air quality standards," Gov. Jon S. Corzine said. "This decision proves that New Jersey can and will pursue action to enforce the Clean Air Act's protections even when the federal government abdicates its own responsibility to do so." The 2005 suit claimed that three plants at issue in the litigation were at the time emitting in total hundreds of thousands of tons of pollutants a year. It also claimed that the three plants were putting out more nitrogen
NJ targets pollution in poorer areas with 6 lawsuits. [SEP] Governorship of Chris Christie // in damages for environmental contamination at two sites, less than 3% of the $8.9 billion that the state's lawyers had sought, and extended the compensation to cover other damages not named in the original lawsuit. Environmentalists were apoplectic, slamming the settlement as wholly inadequate. David Pringle, campaign director for the state chapter of Clean Water Action, called it "the biggest corporate subsidy in state history". Jeff Tittel of the Sierra Club called this move "a violation of the public trust." The New Jersey State Senate also condemned the deal. Now-former commissioner of the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection Bradley
NJ targets pollution in poorer areas with 6 lawsuits. [SEP] Carneys Point Township, New Jersey // home to the Dupont Corporation Chamber Works, a facility covering that was listed No. 4 on the "Mother Jones" top 20 polluters of 2010, legally discharging over of toxic chemicals into New Jersey and Delaware River waterways. In 2016, the township initiated a $1.1 billion lawsuit against the corporation, accusing it of divesting the Chambers Works to Chemours without first remediating the property as required by law to address the of pollutants emitted into the soil and water in the century that the facility has been in operation. The Census Bureau's 2006-2010 American Community Survey showed that (in 2010 inflation-adjusted
NJ targets pollution in poorer areas with 6 lawsuits. [SEP] ExxonMobil-New Jersey environmental contamination settlement // which was also highly critical of the deal, said it will further weaken environmental protection efforts that Christie had already undermined throughout his tenure as governor. Environment New Jersey and the Delaware Riverkeeper also advocated the settlement be overturned. NY/NY Baykeeper executive director Debbie Mans suggested that Exxon could not be trusted to finish the cleanup properly, suggesting that anyone who believes they would is "dreaming". Bradley M. Campbell is an attorney and former commissioner of the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection, and administrator of the United States Environmental Protection Agency’s mid-Atlantic region from 1999 to 2001, who initiated
NJ targets pollution in poorer areas with 6 lawsuits. [SEP] Robert F. Kennedy Jr. // Hudson Riverkeeper. Kennedy and his students also sued dozens of municipal waste-water treatment plants to force compliance with the Clean Water Act. In 2010, a Pace lawsuit forced ExxonMobil to clean up tens of millions of gallons of oil from legacy refinery spills in Newtown Creek in Brooklyn, New York. On April 11, 2001, Men's Journal recognized Kennedy with its "Heroes" Award for his creation of the Pace Environmental Litigation Clinic. Kennedy and his Pace Environmental Litigation Clinic received other awards for successful legal work cleaning up the environment. The Pace Clinic became a model for similar environmental law clinics
NJ targets pollution in poorer areas with 6 lawsuits. [SEP] Environment America // schools, solar projects on school campuses, Californian cities' solar power production, "green job" training programs within the state, and the costs of fossil fuels. In 2009, Environment Texas and the Sierra Club filed similar lawsuits against Chevron Phillips for alleged violations of pollution limits and the Shell Oil Company for alleged illegal air pollution emissions. Shell Oil Company agreed to pay a $5.8 million settlement, reduce emissions from its Deer Park refinery by 80%, upgrade chemical units, and reduce gas flaring. The following year, the environmental groups sued the largest oil refinery in the United States, Exxon Mobil, accusing it
NJ targets pollution in poorer areas with 6 lawsuits. [SEP] ExxonMobil-New Jersey environmental contamination settlement // suggested the settlement was rushed by the administration to plug immediate budget shortfalls. In an op-ed in NJ.com, state Senator Raymond Lesniak called for the state's acting attorney general John Jay Hoffman to resign for his role in the settlement. Environmental Advocates immediately slammed the settlement as wholly inadequate. David Pringle, campaign director for the state chapter of Clean Water Action, called it "the biggest corporate subsidy in state history". “Governor Christie has abandoned his responsibility to protect the public trust’’ said Pringle, advocating that the deal be overturned. Jeff Tittel, director of the state's chapter of the Sierra Club,
NJ targets pollution in poorer areas with 6 lawsuits. [SEP] ExxonMobil-New Jersey environmental contamination settlement // In June 2018, The New Jersey Surpeme Court ruled that challengers to the settlement had not standing, thus preventing any further recourse. ExxonMobil-New Jersey environmental contamination settlement The Exxon Mobil-New Jersey Environmental Pollution Settlement was a 2015 legal settlement between Exxon Mobil Corporation and the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection, over contaminated sites at oil refinery plants and other facilities at Bayway Refinery in Linden and Bayonne Refinery in Bayonne, New Jersey dating back to the Standard Oil's use of the properties starting in the 1870s. The settlement was controversially settled by Governor Chris Christie's Administration for far less
Studies have demonstrated that cooking with aluminum foil can result in the ingestion of aluminum, which is a risk factor for Alzheimer's disease. [SEP] Cookware and bakeware // aluminium. Aluminium exposure has been suggested as a risk factor for Alzheimer's disease. The Alzheimer's Association states that "studies have failed to confirm any role for aluminum in causing Alzheimer's." The link remains controversial. Copper provides the highest thermal conductivity among non-noble metals and is therefore fast heating with unparalleled heat distribution "(see: Copper in heat exchangers)." Pots and pans are formed from copper sheets of various thicknesses, with those in excess of 2.5 mm considered commercial (or "extra-fort") grade. Between 1 mm and 2.5 mm wall thickness is considered utility ("fort") grade, with thicknesses below 1.5 mm often requiring
Studies have demonstrated that cooking with aluminum foil can result in the ingestion of aluminum, which is a risk factor for Alzheimer's disease. [SEP] Aluminium chlorohydrate // long-term use of antiperspirants and Alzheimer's disease. There is no adequate evidence that exposure to aluminium in antiperspirants leads to progressive dementia and Alzheimer's disease. Heather M. Snyder, the senior associate director of medical and scientific relations for the Alzheimer's Association, has stated, "There was a lot of research that looked at the link between Alzheimer's and aluminium, and there hasn't been any definitive evidence to suggest there is a link". The International Journal of Fertility and Women's Medicine found no evidence that certain chemicals used in underarm cosmetics increase the risk of breast cancer. Ted S. Gansler, the director
Studies have demonstrated that cooking with aluminum foil can result in the ingestion of aluminum, which is a risk factor for Alzheimer's disease. [SEP] Neurotoxin // with age, and have been shown to correlate with Alzheimer’s Disease, implicating it as a neurotoxic causative compound of the disease. Despite its known toxicity, aluminum is still extensively utilized in the packaging and preparing of food, while other toxic metals such as lead have been almost entirely phased-out of use in these industries. Mercury is capable of inducing CNS damage by migrating into the brain by crossing the BBB. Mercury exists in a number of different compounds, though methylmercury (MeHg), dimethylmercury and diethylmercury are the only significantly neurotoxic forms. Diethylmercury and dimethylmercury are considered some of the most potent
Studies have demonstrated that cooking with aluminum foil can result in the ingestion of aluminum, which is a risk factor for Alzheimer's disease. [SEP] Alzheimer's disease // such as ionic copper, iron, and zinc is disrupted in AD, though it remains unclear whether this is produced by or causes the changes in proteins. These ions affect and are affected by tau, APP, and APOE, and their dysregulation may cause oxidative stress that may contribute to the pathology. The quality of some of these studies has been criticised, and the link remains controversial. The majority of researchers do not support a causal connection with aluminium. Smoking is a significant AD risk factor. Systemic markers of the innate immune system are risk factors for late-onset AD. There is tentative
Studies have demonstrated that cooking with aluminum foil can result in the ingestion of aluminum, which is a risk factor for Alzheimer's disease. [SEP] Aluminium // pain, poor memory, insomnia, depression, asthma, irritable bowel syndrome, or other symptoms upon contact with products containing aluminium. Exposure to powdered aluminium or aluminium welding fumes can cause pulmonary fibrosis. Fine aluminium powder can ignite or explode, posing another workplace hazard. Food is the main source of aluminium. Drinking water contains more aluminium than solid food; however, aluminium in food may be absorbed more than aluminium from water. Major sources of human oral exposure to aluminium include food (due to its use in food additives, food and beverage packaging, and cooking utensils), drinking water (due to its use in municipal
Studies have demonstrated that cooking with aluminum foil can result in the ingestion of aluminum, which is a risk factor for Alzheimer's disease. [SEP] Aluminium // impaired by toxic amounts of aluminium. An accident in England revealed that millimolar quantities of aluminium in drinking water cause significant cognitive deficits. Orally ingested aluminium salts can deposit in the brain. There is research on correlation between neurological disorders, including Alzheimer's disease, and aluminium levels, but it has been inconclusive so far. Aluminium increases estrogen-related gene expression in human breast cancer cells cultured in the laboratory. In very high doses, aluminium is associated with altered function of the blood–brain barrier. A small percentage of people have contact allergies to aluminium and experience itchy red rashes, headache, muscle pain, joint
Studies have demonstrated that cooking with aluminum foil can result in the ingestion of aluminum, which is a risk factor for Alzheimer's disease. [SEP] Reuse of bottles // is also a concern, but PVC is no longer used for water bottles. Another common material used to make reusable drinking bottles is aluminum. However, aluminum also has health safety concerns. A study by the U.S. National Library of Medicine, National Institutes of Health found that aluminum levels were over 20-times higher in the elderly than in middle aged people. The study cited a correlation between aluminum levels and “densities of senile plaques and neurofibrillary tangles.” Furthermore, it found that lowering the amount of brain aluminum by using chelation was shown to slow the progression of Alzheimer’s Disease. This is
Studies have demonstrated that cooking with aluminum foil can result in the ingestion of aluminum, which is a risk factor for Alzheimer's disease. [SEP] Copper in health // lipids or other macromolecules. While the cause and progression of Alzheimer's disease are not well understood, research indicates that, among several other key observations, iron, aluminum, and copper accumulate in the brains of Alzheimer's patients. However, it is not yet known whether this accumulation is a cause or a consequence of the disease. Research has been ongoing over the past two decades to determine whether copper is a causative or a preventive agent of Alzheimer's disease. For example, as a possible causative agent or an expression of a metal homeostasis disturbance, studies indicate that copper may play a role in
Studies have demonstrated that cooking with aluminum foil can result in the ingestion of aluminum, which is a risk factor for Alzheimer's disease. [SEP] Microwave oven // with thin metal films can also be destroyed or damaged by microwaving. Aluminium foil is thick enough to be used in microwave ovens as a shield against heating parts of food items, if the foil is not badly warped. When wrinkled, aluminium foil is generally unsafe in microwaves, as manipulation of the foil causes sharp bends and gaps that invite sparking. The USDA recommends that aluminium foil used as a partial food shield in microwave cooking cover no more than one quarter of a food object, and be carefully smoothed to eliminate sparking hazards. Another hazard is the resonance of
Studies have demonstrated that cooking with aluminum foil can result in the ingestion of aluminum, which is a risk factor for Alzheimer's disease. [SEP] Aluminium foil // is about 80%. Aluminium is used for packaging as it is highly malleable: it can be easily converted to thin sheets and folded, rolled or packed. Aluminium foil acts as a total barrier to light and oxygen (which cause fats to oxidise or become rancid), odours and flavours, moistness, and germs, and so it is used broadly in food and pharmaceutical packaging, including long-life packs (aseptic packaging) for drinks and dairy goods, which allows storing without refrigeration. Aluminium foil containers and trays are used to bake pies and to pack takeaway meals, ready snacks and long life pet foods. Aluminium
Philippines to cull 200,000 fowl after bird flu outbreak. [SEP] 2017 Central Luzon H5N6 outbreak // where the avian flu originated had a practice of setting up quails above ducks. The outbreak caused a drop of the farm gate prices of poultry. The prices dropped to to per kilogram ( to per pound) from the average price of per kilogram ( per pound). The poultry industry has estimated that it suffered a loss per day. As of August 23, 2017, the outbreak already costed the country's poultry industry . Samahang Industriya ng Agrikultura (SINAG), an agriculture group, called for the Department of Agriculture's response to the incident to be more discreet saying that their handling of
Philippines to cull 200,000 fowl after bird flu outbreak. [SEP] 2017 Central Luzon H5N6 outbreak // will be quarantined for 21 days. The quarantine zone was extended as far as and was also imposed in Jaen and San Isidro, Nueva Ecija. This zone was reduced back to 1 kilometer on August 31, 2017. 500 soldiers has been mobilized to aid the culling efforts. By August 25, more than 470 thousand chickens, ducks, and quails has been culled. By September 2017, more than 600 thousand birds have been culled. Through a circular dated on August 11, 2017, the Department of Agriculture imposed a temporary ban against transporting birds and poultry products from Pampanga to other parts of
Philippines to cull 200,000 fowl after bird flu outbreak. [SEP] 2017 Central Luzon H5N6 outbreak // the bird flu situation in the country was raised to stage 2 following the confirmation of the outbreak which started in Pampanga. A quarantine zone was imposed centering Barangay San Carlos of San Luis which covered an area . The quarantine radius covers five barangays in San Luis, Mexico and Santa Ana towns. Within the quarantine zone a total of 200 thousand birds wild or domesticated will be culled during a three-day period. The corpses will be buried in a highly elevated place. Animals within the designated area will be quarantined for 90 days while those in the surrounding area
Philippines to cull 200,000 fowl after bird flu outbreak. [SEP] 2017 Central Luzon H5N6 outbreak // by farms in the last week of April 2017. The first farm to be affected by the disease was reportedly a quail farm. The Department of Agriculture (DA) confirmed the avian influenza outbreak on August 11, 2017 and a state of calamity was declared by the provincial government of Pampanga on the same day. By that time a total of 116,000 birds in farms has been identified to have the virus with 37,000 birds already dead due to the disease. On August 18, 2017, Agriculture Secretary Manny Piñol confirmed occurrence of bird flu in the towns of Jaen and San
Philippines to cull 200,000 fowl after bird flu outbreak. [SEP] Swine influenza // officers investigated the outbreak of swine flu in Nueva Ecija and central Luzon, Philippines. The mortality rate is less than 10% for swine flu, unless there are complications like hog cholera. On July 27, 2007, the Philippine National Meat Inspection Service (NMIS) raised a hog cholera "red alert" warning over Metro Manila and five regions of Luzon after the disease spread to backyard pig farms in Bulacan and Pampanga, even if these tested negative for the swine flu virus. Since November 2009, 14 deaths as a result of swine flu in Northern Ireland have been reported. The majority of the
Philippines to cull 200,000 fowl after bird flu outbreak. [SEP] Avian influenza // point and beyond that a 5 km radius where all fowl was to be vaccinated. This culling method was indiscriminate as a large proportion of the poultry inside these areas were small backyard flocks which did not travel great enough distances to carry infection to adjacent villages without human effort and may have not been infected at all. Between 2004 and 2005, over 100 million chickens were culled in Asia to contain H5N1. The risk of mass culling of birds and the resulting economic impact led farmers who were reluctant to report sick poultry. The culls often preempted actual lab
Philippines to cull 200,000 fowl after bird flu outbreak. [SEP] 2017 Central Luzon H5N6 outbreak // Isidro in Nueva Ecija. After the strain of the bird flu was confirmed to be H5N6 which can be transmitted to humans, it was reported on August 25, that Department of Health is monitoring 34 farm workers in Nueva Ecija and Pampanga as suspected human cases of the disease. Agriculture Secretary Piñol declared the outbreak officially over on September 2, 2017 and eased quarantine measures. The strain of the avian influenza virus is not of the H5N1 strain according to the Research Institute for Tropical Medicine which conducted testings on samples of the virus from infected birds. The samples were
Philippines to cull 200,000 fowl after bird flu outbreak. [SEP] 2017 Central Luzon H5N6 outbreak // disease. The Department of Agriculture declared that they were able to "effectively contain" the outbreak. The government body will conduct a post-crisis analysis with poultry stakeholders where the DA will suggest greater bio-security measure in farms in the country. Agriculture Secretary Piñol said that many of the farms he visited in Pampanga lacked "basic bio-security facilities, like a simple footbath and vehicle disinfection facility" and a "disposal area for dead fowls or wastes within the farm area". 2017 Central Luzon H5N6 outbreak From April to September 2017 in the Philippines, an outbreak of H5N6 avian influenza or bird flu affected
Philippines to cull 200,000 fowl after bird flu outbreak. [SEP] 2017 Central Luzon H5N6 outbreak // Luzon as well as banned the transfer of live poultry and poultry products from Luzon to Visayas and Mindanao to prevent the spread of the disease. After consulting with biosecurity experts, the ban was partially lifted by August 23 but the transport of poultry from within the quarantine areas centered on affected towns in Pampanga and Nueva Ecija remains. It is yet to be determined how avian influenza was successfully transmitted to the Philippines. The Department of Agriculture either suspects that the virus was transmitted by migratory birds or through the smuggling of Peking Ducks through Subic Port. The farm
Philippines to cull 200,000 fowl after bird flu outbreak. [SEP] 2017 Central Luzon H5N6 outbreak // 2017 Central Luzon H5N6 outbreak From April to September 2017 in the Philippines, an outbreak of H5N6 avian influenza or bird flu affected poultry in at least three towns in Central Luzon; San Luis in Pampanga and Jaen and San Isidro in Nueva Ecija. The occurrence is the first avian flu outbreak recorded in the Philippines. While the occurrence of the disease was reported as early as April 2017, it was only on August 11, 2017 that the avian flu was confirmed. The outbreak was officially declared over in September 2017. Occurrence of avian influenza in Pampanga was first reported
Drug for refractory psoriatic arthritis shows promise in clinical trial [SEP] Psoriatic arthritis // tablet form and taken by mouth. Side effects include headaches, back pain, nausea, diarrhea, fatigue, nasopharyngitis and upper respiratory tract infections, as well as depression and weight loss. Patented in 2014 and manufactured by Celgene, there is no current generic equivalent available on the market. A review found tentative evidence of benefit of low level laser therapy and concluded that it could be considered for relief of pain and stiffness associated RA. Retinoid etretinate is effective for both arthritis and skin lesions. Photochemotherapy with methoxy psoralen and long-wave ultraviolet light (PUVA) are used for severe skin lesions. Doctors may use
Drug for refractory psoriatic arthritis shows promise in clinical trial [SEP] Psoriatic arthritis // as the IL-12/IL-23 inhibitor ustekinumab. Biologics may increase the risk of minor and serious infections. More rarely, they may be associated with nervous system disorders, blood disorders or certain types of cancer. A first-in-class treatment option for the management of psoriatic arthritis, apremilast is a small molecule phosphodiesterase-4 inhibitor approved for use by the FDA in 2014. By inhibiting PDE4, an enzyme which breaks down cyclic adenosine monophosphate, cAMP levels rise, resulting in the down-regulation of various pro-inflammatory factors including TNF-α, interleukin 17 and interleukin 23, as well as the up-regulation of anti-inflammatory factor interleukin 10. It is given in
Drug for refractory psoriatic arthritis shows promise in clinical trial [SEP] Ixekizumab // months of treatment (depending on the dosing scheme), and 40% of patients experienced a complete absence of psoriasis symptoms (PASI100). In the placebo group, PASI75 was reached in 4% of patients, and PASI100 in none; in the group of patients receiving etanercept, an older anti-psoriasis drug, PASI75 was reached in 48%. Until the 60th study week, 11–44% of ixekizumab treated patients relapsed (again, depending on the dosing scheme), as compared to 84% under placebo. In December 2017 the US FDA approved it for active psoriatic arthritis. The drug is contraindicated for patients with certain infections such as active tuberculosis. In
Drug for refractory psoriatic arthritis shows promise in clinical trial [SEP] Psoriatic arthritis // sulfasalazine. These immunosuppressant drugs can also reduce psoriasis skin symptoms but can lead to liver and kidney problems and an increased risk of serious infection. The most recent class of treatment is called biological response modifiers or biologics has been developed using recombinant DNA technology. Biologic medications are derived from living cells cultured in a laboratory. Unlike traditional DMARDS that affect the entire immune system, biologics target specific parts of the immune system. They are given by injection or intravenous (IV) infusion. Biologics prescribed for psoriatic arthritis are TNF-α inhibitors, including infliximab, etanercept, golimumab, certolizumab pegol and adalimumab, as well
Drug for refractory psoriatic arthritis shows promise in clinical trial [SEP] GSK2831781 // of IMP731 can prevent, for many months, Th1-driven skin inflammation in the tuberculin-induced DTH model in primates. This evidence suggested to GSK the potential of psoriasis as an initial proof-of-concept indication for GSK2831781. GSK2831781's first clinical trial is a Phase I in both psoriasis patients and healthy individuals. The trial is expected to recruit around 63 subjects, half of whom will be healthy and half of whom will have plaque psoriasis. The healthy subjects will be given BCG in order to track DTH and subsequent response to antibody treatment. The study will be randomized, double blind, placebo-controlled, and single ascending
Drug for refractory psoriatic arthritis shows promise in clinical trial [SEP] Upadacitinib // did not appear to be dose-related. A single case of non-melanoma skin cancer was reported in the 24 mg twice daily group. Abbvie has planned a total of six phase III trials that will evaluate over 4,000 patients with moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis. Two phase III trials are planned studying patients with psoriatic arthritis and one in patients with ulcerative colitis. Filgotinib is also a selective inhibitor of JAK1. Upadacitinib Upadacitinib (code name ABT-494) is a drug which is currently under investigation for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, Crohn's disease, ulcerative colitis, atopic dermatitis and psoriatic arthritis. It was
Drug for refractory psoriatic arthritis shows promise in clinical trial [SEP] Tofacitinib // investigational drug in psoriasis. Tofacitinib has demonstrated its effectiveness for plaque psoriasis in Phase 3 randomized, controlled trials in comparison to placebo and to etanercept. In particular, a 10 mg twice-daily dose of tofacitinib was shown to be noninferior to etanercept 50 mg subcutaneously twice weekly. Based on preclinical studies in a mouse model of the disease, tofacitinib has been investigated for the treatment of alopecia areata. Early case reports suggested potential efficacy, as did a phase II open-label clinical trial, published in tandem with a phase II clinical trial showing the same for ruxolitinib. In a June 2015 case
Drug for refractory psoriatic arthritis shows promise in clinical trial [SEP] Tildrakizumab // $80 million. Upon product approval, Sun Pharmaceutical will be responsible for regulatory activities, including subsequent submissions, pharmacovigilance, post approval studies, manufacturing and commercialization of the approved product. As of March 2014, the drug was in phase III clinical trials for plaque psoriasis. The two trials enrolled nearly 2000 patients. In 2016, tildrakizumab became the first IL-23p19 inhibitor to demonstrate positive results in Phase-3 clinical trials for the treatment of moderate-to-severe plaque psoriasis, further validating the importance of the role of IL-23 in psoriasis. Sun Pharma signed a licensing pact with Spain's Almirall for marketing tildrakizumab in Europe In March 2018,
Drug for refractory psoriatic arthritis shows promise in clinical trial [SEP] Ponesimod // Ponesimod Ponesimod (INN, codenamed ACT-128800) is an experimental drug for the treatment of multiple sclerosis (MS) and psoriasis. It is being developed by Actelion. In a 2009–2011 Phase II clinical trial including 464 MS patients, ponesimod treatment resulted in fewer new active brain lesions than placebo, measured during the course of 24 weeks. In a 2010–2012 Phase II clinical trial including 326 patients with psoriasis, 46 or 48% of patients (depending on dosage) had a reduction of at least 75% Psoriasis Area and Severity Index (PASI) score compared to placebo in 16 weeks. Common adverse effects in studies were temporary
Drug for refractory psoriatic arthritis shows promise in clinical trial [SEP] Adalimumab // and older, and is approved for the treatment of that condition. In RA, it has been approved for use alone, or with methotrexate or similar medicines, in the U.S. since 2002. In 2003, adalimumab began undergoing trials for use in treating psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis. Adalimumab has been shown to reduce the signs and symptoms of, and is approved for treatment of, ankylosing spondylitis in adults. Adalimumab has been shown to reduce the signs and symptoms of moderate to severe Crohn's disease. It has been approved for that use in the UK since 2009. Adalimumab may be effective and well
Lawmakers ready for ‘fast and furious’ session. [SEP] ATF gunwalking scandal // and we'll hold somebody accountable." On May 3, 2011, Attorney General Holder testified to the House Judiciary Committee that he did not know who approved Fast and Furious, but that it was being investigated. He also stated that he "probably heard about Fast and Furious for the first time over the last few weeks," a claim which would later be questioned as explained below. In June, ATF Agent Vince Cefalu, who helped to publicize Fast and Furious, was served with termination papers, in a move by the agency he described as politically motivated retaliation. He had been at odds with
Lawmakers ready for ‘fast and furious’ session. [SEP] The Furious Sessions // The Furious Sessions The Furious Sessions is a musical project developed for the Spanish newspaper El País by the Sol de Sants Studios in Barcelona and the RiD vídeo crew. A big part of the major Spanish indie bands have recorded a "Furious Session", which consist in a live video take of one song in the studio. With the years the project has grown into a bigger show, with international bands such as Vintage Trouble, Femi Kuti, Dungen, Lloyd Cole, Avishai Cohen, The Wild Feathers, Glasvegas, Rodrigo Amarante or Morcheeba. It started in 2011 when Alberto Sol de Sants, Javier
Lawmakers ready for ‘fast and furious’ session. [SEP] Fast & Furious: Supercharged // room. Agent Novak wants to stop Roman, but Dominic Toretto and Letty appear, followed by Hobbs, who has a bigger gun and takes Novak away. Screeching cars in the background alert the team that trouble is ahead. The riders put on their 3D glasses. The team makes way for their vehicles and begins the chase in a parking lot underground, where Owen Shaw appears to seek revenge on Dominic, leading a chase outside on the freeway. While similar to Hollywood’s, Florida’s ride is a stand-alone ride. Guests enter from the San Francisco area of the park. The facade is meant
Lawmakers ready for ‘fast and furious’ session. [SEP] Eric Holder // alleged government coverup. In October 2011, 7,600 pages of documents were released that Issa claimed may have indicated Holder was sent memos in regard to Operation Fast and Furious earlier than he at first claimed, contradicting Holder's sworn testimony before the House Judiciary Committee in which he said he only recently became aware of Operation Fast and Furious in the first half of 2011. In April 2012, Issa announced that his committee was drafting a Contempt of Congress resolution against Holder in response to the committee being "stonewalled by the Justice Department." On June 19, 2012, Issa met with Holder
Lawmakers ready for ‘fast and furious’ session. [SEP] ATF gunwalking scandal // Judiciary Committee, who would become a major figure in the investigation of "gunwalking". At the same time, information began leaking to various bloggers and Web sites. On January 25, 2011, Burke announced the first details of the case to become officially public, marking the end of Operation Fast and Furious. At a news conference in Phoenix, he reported a 53-count indictment of 20 suspects for buying hundreds of guns intended for illegal export between September 2009 and December 2010. Newell, who was at the conference, called Fast and Furious a "phenomenal case," while denying that guns had been deliberately allowed
Lawmakers ready for ‘fast and furious’ session. [SEP] 2 Fast 2 Furious // Monica Fuentes to bring down drug lord Carter Verone. The film saw a majority of shooting being done on location in Miami, and was released on June 6, 2003, grossing over $236 million worldwide from an estimated $76 million budget. It is followed by "" (2006) and "Fast & Furious" (2009). After letting Dominic Toretto (Vin Diesel) escape from the authorities, Brian O'Conner (Paul Walker) relocates from Los Angeles to Miami and makes a living by participating in illegal street races. Tej Parker (Ludacris) organizes a local street race, involving Suki, Orange Julius, and Slap Jack, however, the race lacks
Lawmakers ready for ‘fast and furious’ session. [SEP] Fast & Furious: Showdown // Fast & Furious: Showdown Fast & Furious: Showdown is a cooperative racing video game developed by Firebrand Games. It was published by Activision for Xbox 360, PlayStation 3, Wii U, Nintendo 3DS, and Microsoft Windows. The game is based on "The Fast and the Furious" series, and bridges the story between the movies "Fast Five" and "Fast & Furious 6". The player takes control of many of the major The Fast and the Furious characters, except for the noticeably absent Dominic Toretto. The story begins with a cut scene featuring Monica Fuentes finding Riley Hicks digging around through files in
Lawmakers ready for ‘fast and furious’ session. [SEP] ATF gunwalking scandal // killed by guns linked to the operation. Reflecting on the operation, Attorney General Eric Holder said that the United States government is "...losing the battle to stop the flow of illegal guns to Mexico," and that the effects of Operation Fast and Furious will most likely continue to be felt for years, as more walked guns appear at Mexican crime scenes. In April 2011, a large cache of weapons, 40 traced to Fast and Furious but also including military-grade weapons difficult to obtain legally in the US such as an anti-aircraft machine gun and grenade launcher, was found in the
Lawmakers ready for ‘fast and furious’ session. [SEP] Fast & Furious (2009 film) // Fast & Furious (2009 film) Fast & Furious (alternatively known as The Fast and the Furious 4, or Fast & Furious 4) is a 2009 American action film directed by Justin Lin and written by Chris Morgan. It is the fourth installment of "The Fast and the Furious" franchise. The film, which stars Vin Diesel, Paul Walker, Michelle Rodriguez, and Jordana Brewster, is set between the second and installments and bridges from the first film into a present-day setting, with main members of the original cast reprising their roles. Originally released on April 3, 2009, it received negative reviews upon
Lawmakers ready for ‘fast and furious’ session. [SEP] Fast & Furious: Supercharged // is a black Dodge Charger next to a beige house. The tour guide, who is apologizing for the "unplanned" event, is interrupted by Luke Hobbs, telling guests that they will be sent to a safe location. This is because Owen Shaw and his gang are after a high-valued witness on the tram. The tram enters the garage and is given an introduction to Roman Pearce and Letty Ortiz, two of the franchise's characters. The tram drives further into the garage, where, in a Pepper's ghost hologram, a party is interrupted by Agent Novak, who escorts the partygoers out of the
France struggling to curb rate of coronavirus pandemic, health official says. [SEP] Coronavirus // 2013, a case of contamination from human to human in France was confirmed by the French Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. In addition, cases of person-to-person transmission have been reported by the Ministry of Health in Tunisia. Two confirmed cases seem to have caught the disease from their late father, who became ill after a visit to Qatar and Saudi Arabia. By Oct. 30 2013, there were 124 cases and 52 deaths in Saudi Arabia. After the Dutch Erasmus Medical Centre sequenced the virus, the virus was given a new name, Human Corona Virus-Erasmus Medical Centre (HCoV-EMC). The final
France struggling to curb rate of coronavirus pandemic, health official says. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // United Kingdom, France, Germany, and the United Arab Emirates. According to a European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) publication, on April 2014, Tunisia had a total of 3 cases with 1 fatality. In May 2015, the first case in South Korea was confirmed in a man who had visited several Middle Eastern countries. As of 16 June 2015, a total of 150 cases has been infected, including 18 deaths, according to the World Health Organization (WHO). As of 29 June 2015, 32 people in South Korea have died from this outbreak, with 182 confirmed cases of infection. There
France struggling to curb rate of coronavirus pandemic, health official says. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // MERS had infected at least 60 people with cases reported in Jordan, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates (UAE), Tunisia, Germany, the United Kingdom (UK), France and Italy, with a death toll of 38. Saudi officials expressed great concern that millions of Muslims from around the world would potentially be exposed to the virus during the autumn Hajj, or pilgrimage to Mecca. In May 2014, the WHO said it was monitoring the situation as global cases of MERS appeared to be on the rise, but said the situation did not yet constitute a health emergency. On 3 June 2014,
France struggling to curb rate of coronavirus pandemic, health official says. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic in France // to avoid the spread of the disease. The French government lags behind the decision of the World Health Organization to upgrade to phase 6. It is currently in phase 5A in France. A mandatory mass vaccination plan has been discussed. This vaccination plan is currently implemented, it is free and not mandatory. In July 2010, France initially ordered 1,46 doses per inhabitant, the third largest amount among members of the Global Health Security Initiative (GHSI), behind the United Kingdom and Canada. In January, 50 million of the initial 94 million doses were cancelled. The French government asks Europe to decide
France struggling to curb rate of coronavirus pandemic, health official says. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // the same room as the first patient was confirmed by French Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. France reported its first death from MERS near the end of May 2013. On 28 May 2013, a report by the Associated Press said a French patient died of the novel coronavirus related to SARS. Fifty percent of those infected have died. On 20 April 2014, Greece reported its first MERS-CoV case. The infected individual was a 69-year-old Greek male who had returned to Greece on April 17 from Saudi Arabia. People with close contact with the infected man were identified and are
France struggling to curb rate of coronavirus pandemic, health official says. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic in France // to cancel all flights to Mexico. Stocks of Tamiflu and Relenza are 33 million. On 1 May, the French Health Minister confirmed, during the 8 p.m. TF1 news, that 2 cases of A(H1N1) flu have been detected in France. The government discusses the possibility of ordering 100 million vaccine doses against the flu from three companies (GlaxoSmithKline, Sanofi and Novartis). The French government plans to vaccinate the entire French population (65 million inhabitants) The detailed situation by region is updated by the National Institute of Health 2009 flu pandemic in France The 2009 flu pandemic, involving an outbreak of a
France struggling to curb rate of coronavirus pandemic, health official says. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic in Europe // THL, (13 November 2009) said they will no longer report deaths caused by H1N1. As of 28 April there were twenty suspected cases of swine flu being investigated in France. Since 25 April, over 100 cases of Influenza-like illness have been reported, of which 30 were identified as possible cases. 10 of those cases have since been excluded. On 30 April, the number of suspected cases was revised to 50 (including 4 probable cases). On 1 May, the French Health Minister confirmed, during the 8pm TF1 news that two cases of A(H1N1) flu had been detected in France. On 4
France struggling to curb rate of coronavirus pandemic, health official says. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // a nurse who came in contact with the deceased patient are suspected to have contracted the disease. The victim's son-in-law is also reported to have been infected. According to Dr. Gooya, the infection of 1 out of the 3 suspected patients is confirmed and more tests are under way to determine the situation of the other two patients. On 7 May 2013, a case was confirmed in Nord departement of France in a man who had previously traveled to Dubai, United Arab Emirates. On 12 May 2013, in a case of human to human transmission, a man previously hospitalized in
France struggling to curb rate of coronavirus pandemic, health official says. [SEP] Responses to the West African Ebola virus epidemic // also donated $500,000 to affected countries. France has committed €70 million in aid to fight the epidemic. This includes the provision of clinical testing facilities and the construction of a 50-bed treatment centre which will be managed by the French Red Cross. Additionally they are supporting other organisations working in the area and the wider international effort. The country also dispatched 20 experts from the EPRUS institute to Guinea to fight the spread of the events. The Pasteur Institute also plans to set up a center of expertise in Conakry in order to provide improved responses in the future. The
France struggling to curb rate of coronavirus pandemic, health official says. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic by country // and 30% in city areas. On 27 April, the Spanish Ministry of Health and Social Policy announced its first case (the first in Europe) in a 23-year-old man who had recently returned from Mexico on 22 April and had been quarantined on the 25th. The day the European Union health commissioner advised Europeans not to travel to the United States or Mexico unless urgent.<ref name="Guardian 27/4"></ref> On 14 June, it was reported that the United Kingdom had its first confirmed death. As of 22 December, every European country, apart from the 5 microstates had confirmed deaths. France had 27; Spain,
Zambia says new cases dropping in deadly cholera outbreak. [SEP] 2008 Zimbabwean cholera outbreak // were detected in the Limpopo River on 3 December 2008. By 12 December 2008, 11 deaths and 859 infections had been recorded in South Africa, rising to 2,100 cases and 15 deaths by 14 January 2009, and to 12,000 cases and 59 deaths by 10 March. The South African government set up medical facilities and drinking water supplies at the Beitbridge border post and deployed the National Outbreak Response Team and additional medical personnel to Musina. Anthony Turton, a political scientist and Unit Fellow with the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) in South Africa, who had earlier warned
Zambia says new cases dropping in deadly cholera outbreak. [SEP] 2008 Zimbabwean cholera outbreak // South Africa, with one death recorded in Kafue District in Zambia and none in Botswana or Namibia by 9 December 2008. In 2009, cases increased, with 4,354 cases and 55 deaths reported by 10 February 2009 in Zambia and 1,596 cases and 14 deaths in Katanga, the southernmost province of the DR Congo. In Mozambique, cholera spread to 10 out of 11 provinces, with a total of 9,533 cases by 1 Jan to 1 Mar 2009 and 119 deaths by 17 March. Four health workers also died in a mob attack, blamed on "misinformation and misunderstanding in efforts to combat
Zambia says new cases dropping in deadly cholera outbreak. [SEP] 2012 Sierra Leonean cholera outbreak // people and infected more than 25,000 others in Sierra Leone and Guinea since February 2012, when the epidemic was reported. On 4 September 2012, the death toll increased to 350. On 12 September, Dr. Amara Jambai, the Director of Disease Surveillance and Control in the Ministry of Health and Sanitation, reported that cholera infection in Sierra Leone dropped as a result of the activities of the government and other organizations. For the period of January to mid-August 2012, more than 11,600 cholera cases were officially recorded by the Ministry of Health and Sanitation in Sierra Leone. By 30 August, reported
Zambia says new cases dropping in deadly cholera outbreak. [SEP] 2012 Sierra Leonean cholera outbreak // decreased from 2,110 to 1,418 in Sierra Leone and from 1,152 to 346 in Guinea. According to the data of the UN Children's Fund (UNICEF) and the World Health Organization, nearly 841 new cases were reported in at the beginning of October 2012. It was 433 in the second week of October. On 17 August 2012, Sierra Leonean President Ernest Bai Koroma announced that the outbreak was a national public health crisis. At this time the cholera outbreak had a mortality rate of 1.8% in the country, nearly double the threshold for a state of emergency. By the end of
Zambia says new cases dropping in deadly cholera outbreak. [SEP] 2008 Zimbabwean cholera outbreak // provinces and 54 districts. The disease spread to reach all of Zimbabwe's ten provinces. The attack rate was highest in Beitbridge, Chegutu, Mudzi and Zvimba Districts (above 1,000 cases per 100,000 people or 1.0%). The number of cases reported by the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs escalated from 30 on 1 September 2008 to 15,572 by 10 December. According to the Red Cross, around 46% of reported deaths occur en route to clinics and hospitals. The head of the British Department for International Development in Harare said that "there are probably twice as many people with
Zambia says new cases dropping in deadly cholera outbreak. [SEP] Zimbabwe // cholera epidemic. By December 2008 more than 10,000 people had been infected in all but one of Zimbabwe's provinces and the outbreak had spread to Botswana, Mozambique, South Africa and Zambia. On 4 December 2008 the Zimbabwe government declared the outbreak to be a national emergency and asked for international aid. By 9 March 2009 The World Health Organization (WHO) estimated that 4,011 people had succumbed to the waterborne disease since the outbreak began in August 2008, and the total number of cases recorded had reached 89,018. In Harare, the city council offered free graves to cholera victims. There had
Zambia says new cases dropping in deadly cholera outbreak. [SEP] 2012 Sierra Leonean cholera outbreak // have been successfully used earlier in 2012 by MSF in Guinea Bissau and by Partners in Health in Haiti. 2012 Sierra Leonean cholera outbreak , a cholera outbreak in Sierra Leone had caused the deaths of 392 people. It was the country's largest outbreak of cholera since first reported in 1970 and the deadliest since the 1994–1995 cholera outbreak. The outbreak has also affected Guinea, which shares a reservoir near the coast. This was the largest cholera outbreak in Africa in 2012. Abdulai Bayraytay, the spokesman of the Sierra Leonean government, stated that as of 1 October 2012 there were
Zambia says new cases dropping in deadly cholera outbreak. [SEP] 2008 Zimbabwean cholera outbreak // ministry and USAID also contradicted Mugabe's statements and called on him to allow aid to reach the people in need. 2008 Zimbabwean cholera outbreak The 2008 Zimbabwean cholera outbreak was an epidemic of cholera affecting much of Zimbabwe from August 2008 until June 2009. The outbreak began in Chitungwiza in Mashonaland East Province in August 2008, then spread throughout the country so that by December 2008, cases were being reported in all 10 provinces. In December 2008, The Zimbabwean government declared the outbreak a national emergency and requested international aid. The outbreak peaked in January 2009 with 8,500 cases reported
Zambia says new cases dropping in deadly cholera outbreak. [SEP] 2012 Sierra Leonean cholera outbreak // cases increased to 13,934 according to the World Health Organization (WHO). The UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) reported that ten of Sierra Leone's thirteen districts were affected. The outbreak occurred primarily in eight districts until August 2012: Port Loko, Kambia, Tonkolili, Bo, Moyamba, Bombali, Pujehun and the Western Area. However, twelve districts became affected by the outbreak by September 2012. Of these districts, the one most affected is the Western Area, which includes the capital, Freetown. This area witnessed 4,965 cases and 63 deaths from 1 January to mid-August 2012. The number of cases and deaths
Zambia says new cases dropping in deadly cholera outbreak. [SEP] 2014–15 African cholera outbreak // Volta region still reported cases of Cholera while in the rest of Ghana the outbreak was declared over. As of January 11 the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Ghana and Nigeria are the countries with highest number of new cases of the disease in 2015. 2014–15 African cholera outbreak Declared in June 2014, the West and Central African cholera outbreak as of January 25, 2015 claimed 1,683 registered deaths and over 91,361 reported cases with a reported case fatality rate (CFR) of 2% in 11 countries, which is 3 times more than in 2013. The case fatality ratio is high
Aid groups descend on Indonesia quake zone; deaths reach 102. [SEP] 2016 Aceh earthquake // death toll increased to 54 when 2 additional fatalities were reported in Bireuën Regency. On the afternoon of 7 December, the death toll jumped to 92, while army official had told Metro TV that 97 people were killed in the quake. On the evening, the death toll was revised to 97. Indonesian authorities confirmed that 73 people were seriously injured in the incident. At least 80 critically injured people were transported to Bireun Hospital as hospitals in Pidie and Pidie Jaya were overwhelmed. An additional 38 doctors were placed on standby. As the hospital lacks an intensive care unit, treatment
Aid groups descend on Indonesia quake zone; deaths reach 102. [SEP] Effect of the 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake on Indonesia // estimates that 655,000 people are homeless and sheltering in scattered refugee camps across the province. As of January 23, 2005 the Health Ministry reported 173,981 dead while the Social Affairs Ministry registered 114,978 killed. On 25 January 2005 Health Minister Fadilah Supari updated the estimated death total to 220,000. On 7 April 2005 the estimated number of missing was reduced by more than 50,000 giving a final total of 167,540 dead and missing. Northern Sumatra took damage from the earthquake itself as a tsunami landed on it. However, most of the damage was the result of the tsunami that struck
Aid groups descend on Indonesia quake zone; deaths reach 102. [SEP] 2016 Aceh earthquake // were admitted to the nearest hospital for bone fractures. Search and rescue teams were immediately assembled and deployed to the scene, including the Disaster Victims Identification team (DVI). Coordination centres were set up in the hardest-hit areas. The Indonesian Volcanology and Geologic Disaster Mitigation departments, and the Ministry of Energy and Human Resources were also sent to the disaster area. One person was reportedly killed due to falling debris. Further search and rescue operations discovered more deaths in Pidie Jaya. The Vice Regent of Pidie Jaya Regency, Said Mulyadi, stated that at least 18 people were killed in the quake,
Aid groups descend on Indonesia quake zone; deaths reach 102. [SEP] 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake and tsunami // Geological Survey a total of 227,898 people died (see table below for details). Measured in lives lost, this is one of the ten worst earthquakes in recorded history, as well as the single worst tsunami in history. Indonesia was the worst affected area, with most death toll estimates at around 170,000. In an initial report by Siti Fadilah Supari, the Indonesian Minister of Health at the time, estimated the death total to be as high as 220,000 in Indonesia alone, giving a total of 280,000 fatalities. However, the estimated number of dead and missing in Indonesia were later reduced by
Aid groups descend on Indonesia quake zone; deaths reach 102. [SEP] Effect of the 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake on Indonesia // accounts gave the number of dead at 122 via the Ministry of Health, while various unconfirmed sources (mostly from phone calls by relatives living in Jakarta) report death tolls of over 600; others say the number is more likely to go well over 1000. Reports have surfaced that the small islets off the coast of Nias island in the Sirombu district are still relatively intact, but high waves still prevent locals from attempting to reach the islands. Confirmation and communications to the islands are further hampered by damage to telecommunication infrastructures, where phone lines are broken and radio networks have
Aid groups descend on Indonesia quake zone; deaths reach 102. [SEP] 2016 Aceh earthquake // to a lack of medical staff in the city, which resulted in many injured being untreated. At noon on 7 December 2016, the death toll was revised by Indonesian authorities to 45, according to the Head of Health Instance of Pidie Jaya, later rose to 49. The Indonesian National Board for Disaster Management sent around 740 personnel to Pidie Jaya from Pidie, consisting of the Indonesian National Army and Pidie Regency's Tagana. The death toll was later revised again to 52, as rescuers retrieved more bodies under the rubble. Most of the dead were residents in Pidie Jaya Regency. The
Aid groups descend on Indonesia quake zone; deaths reach 102. [SEP] 5 August 2018 Lombok earthquake // conducted by authorities revealed that more than 1,470 people had been seriously wounded and more than 165,000 people had been displaced by the earthquake. He added that there were still some areas that couldn't be reached by rescuers. On 18 August, 469 people were confirmed dead. Authorities, however, warned that the death toll may rise. On 25 August, the Indonesian Ministry of Social Affairs confirmed that 565 people had been killed by all of the August tremors. Widespread damage was reported in Lombok Island. Officials stated that structures in North Lombok Regency, in which the epicentre of the earthquake was
Aid groups descend on Indonesia quake zone; deaths reach 102. [SEP] Countries affected by the 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake and tsunami // Andaman and Nicobar Islands. In the meantime, the death toll was slashed down by 1,458, and the number of missing by 2,927 on the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. Indonesia's Ministry of Health confirmed 131,028 deaths on June 18, 2005, mainly in the northern province Aceh of the island Sumatra. Some 37,000 people are missing. Despite its proximity to the incident, Malaysia escaped the kind of damage that struck countries thousands of miles further away (most of its western coast is shielded by Sumatra). The number of deaths currently stands at 68 with 5 people missing. In the Maldives, 82 were
Aid groups descend on Indonesia quake zone; deaths reach 102. [SEP] 2012 Indian Ocean earthquakes // 39-year-old man in Lhokseumawe died from heart attacks or shock. Injuries were reported in Aceh Singkil, including a child who was critically injured by a falling tree. The quake prompted people in Indonesia, Thailand and India to leave their homes and offices in fear of tsunamis. People headed for higher ground in parts of Indonesia and Malaysia. In Aceh, where 31,000 people were killed in the 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake and tsunami, people were reported weeping. Some people used cars and motorcycles to reach higher ground. Patients were reportedly wheeled out of hospitals, some with drips attached to their arms.
Aid groups descend on Indonesia quake zone; deaths reach 102. [SEP] 2018 Papua New Guinea earthquake // collaboration with local and international agencies. Over 544,000 people were reported to be affected by the quake, with half of them being targeted for assistance, and more than 26,000 displaced across the western parts of the country. On March 15, nearly three weeks after the earthquake, UNICEF estimated that 275,000 people were in need of urgent humanitarian assistance, including 125,000 children. The quake and its aftershocks caused panic in Jayapura, the capital of Indonesia's Papua province. The country's National Board for Disaster Management later confirmed that several buildings were damaged in the Boven Digoel Regency, including a mosque, a military
Dominican hospital under scrutiny after 14 newborns die. [SEP] Abortion in the Dominican Republic // and introduced by President Leonel Fernández as Proposal 21. The Dominican Gynecology and Obstetrics Society warned that the number of maternal deaths will increase considerably, because pregnancies can not be interrupted. The society’s president, Aldrian Almonte, said the current figure of 160 deaths for each 100,000 live births per year will increase, because doctors would be reluctant to proceed from fear of being charged in cases where they must decide on the interruption of a pregnancy to preserve the mother’s life. Dr. Altamonte asked, “I would like of the honorable legislators to tell me what are we going to do
Dominican hospital under scrutiny after 14 newborns die. [SEP] Norfolk and Norwich University Hospital // from the superbug. In 2006 an outbreak of a community-acquired infection Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus Aureus on the neonatal intensive care unit at the hospital, resulted in five babies carrying the organism and possibly contributing to the death of one baby. The hospital was placed on black alert in November 2007 when it ran out of beds for a time. Ambulances were forced to queue outside the building while non-urgent patients were discharged to free up beds and a major incident emergency plan implemented. In March 2011 several wards in the hospital were closed as a result of an outbreak of the
Dominican hospital under scrutiny after 14 newborns die. [SEP] Furness General Hospital scandal // 2010, having destroyed evidence to the contrary. The independently issued Morecambe Bay Investigation Report was published in 2015, stating a 'lethal mix' of 'serious and shocking' failings had led to the deaths of eleven babies and one mother. The report recommended a national review of maternity care and thorough investigations of staff members involved by the General Medical Council and Nursing and Midwifery Council. Numerous investigations have discovered serious failings, corruption and cover-ups on every level; investigations continue and no individual has been held accountable for the deaths at FGH. The criminal investigation into the scandal was concluded in April
Dominican hospital under scrutiny after 14 newborns die. [SEP] Dignity Health St. Joseph's Hospital and Medical Center // Human Research Protection Office provides for the regulatory and compliance oversight of all research conducted at Dignity. The hospital in late 2009 had as a patient a mother of four who was 11 weeks pregnant and suffering from a severe case of pulmonary hypertension. Doctors estimated that her chance of dying if she continued the pregnancy was "close to 100 percent". An ethics board approved an abortion to save the life of the mother, even though the hospital was Catholic and within the Diocese of Phoenix. A religious sister, Sister Margaret Mary McBride, who was a vice president at the
Dominican hospital under scrutiny after 14 newborns die. [SEP] Dr. Jose Fabella Memorial Hospital // of Health. The hospital is considered as a "baby factory" and ground zero of the Philippines’ overpopulation crisis. The reputation of the hospital as a baby factory is well justified as no other hospital in the country has a higher birth rate. The maternity ward at the Hospital continues to overflow with hundreds of new mothers. Not enough beds for everyone, so four or five mothers share one bed. The hospital suffers from extreme heat during the summer. Fabella caters to the greater Manila area, and even at the height of storms and typhoons, some women would brave the floods
Dominican hospital under scrutiny after 14 newborns die. [SEP] Hospital General de la Plaza de la Salud // medical advances. • CENTOX, the first Poison control center in the Dominican Republic. • Followed the successful pregnancy, delivery and birth of the first sextuplets in the Dominican Republic with only 26 and a half weeks of gestation. The children are now 4 years of age and healthy (2009). •Pediatric intensive care unit (PICU) as a national reference of care. •Pacemaker Clinic •Hemodialysis Unit • Center for Integrated medicine •Thorax Pain Unit • Organ and tissue transplantation program., which has a Transplant Counsel and an Organ Captivity Coordination Unit. The program achieved the first kidney transplant from a deceased donor
Dominican hospital under scrutiny after 14 newborns die. [SEP] Baba Raghav Das Medical College // against them, and to get promotions. Other medical practitioners have blamed the hospital's negligence as a major factor behind the high number of child deaths. Over these years, several politicians visited the hospital after each incident of mass child deaths. They made promises to upgrade the hospital facilities, but no such upgrades were done. In 2017, 175 children died of encephalitis (out of a total 1,256 deaths at the hospital). The deaths attracted media attention and generated political controversy in August 2017, when 296 children died (including 77 of encephalitis). However, the total number of child deaths (including encephalitis-related child
Dominican hospital under scrutiny after 14 newborns die. [SEP] Lucia de Berk // the case was reopened by the Supreme Court of the Netherlands, as new facts had been uncovered that undermined the previous verdicts. De Berk was freed, and her case was re-tried; she was exonerated in April 2010. As a result of an unexpected death of a baby (Amber) in the Juliana Kinderziekenhuis (JKZ, Juliana Children's Hospital) in The Hague on 4 September 2001, earlier deaths and cardiopulmonary resuscitations were scrutinised. Between September 2000 and September 2001 there appeared to have been nine incidents, which earlier had all been thought unremarkable but now were considered medically suspicious. Lucia de Berk had
Dominican hospital under scrutiny after 14 newborns die. [SEP] Bambino Gesù Hospital // report public. While some the 2014 report's recommendations were implemented, others were not. The Vatican later commissioned a second inquiry after a three-day hospital visit in 2015 and concluded that nothing was amiss after all. The hospital called the AP’s report a “hoax” that “contained false, dated and gravely defamatory accusations and conjectures". After Associated Press published the report, the Holy see released the following statement: “No hospital is perfect. Vatican spokesman Greg Burke. "But it is false and unjust to suggest that there are serious threats to the health of children at Bambino Gesu”. On 13 July 2017, it
Dominican hospital under scrutiny after 14 newborns die. [SEP] Abortion in the Dominican Republic // medicine if they treated her. It took 10 weeks of debate before lawmakers decided that it would not be illegal for Esperancita to receive treatment to save her life. Dr. Antonio Cabrera reported that Esperancita had died on August 17, 2012, shortly after suffering a miscarriage followed by cardiac arrest. She was 13 weeks pregnant at the time of her miscarriage. Abortion in the Dominican Republic Abortion in the Dominican Republic is completely illegal. The Dominican Republic is one of the few countries of the world which have a complete ban on abortion, without an exception for saving maternal life.
The typical Wisconsin worker makes $5,000 less each year than our neighbors in Minnesota" under Gov. Scott Walker’s policies. [SEP] Scott Walker (politician) // were cut by $2 billion. More than 100,000 jobs were created in the state of Wisconsin. Overall, Wisconsin performed above the national average. However it has yet to regain all the jobs lost during and after the Great Recession of 2007–2009. Walker proposed the Wisconsin Budget Repair Bill on February 11, 2011, estimated to save Wisconsin $30 million in the current fiscal year and $300 million over the next two years. The bill requires additional contributions by state and local government workers to their health care plans and pensions, amounting to roughly an 8% decrease in the average government worker's
The typical Wisconsin worker makes $5,000 less each year than our neighbors in Minnesota" under Gov. Scott Walker’s policies. [SEP] Scott Walker (politician) // Critics argued that his proposals would help only the wealthy and that cutting the salaries of public employees would adversely affect state services, while supporters argued that tax cuts for businesses would spur the economy and create jobs. Walker indicated he would refuse an $810 million award from the federal Department of Transportation to build a high speed railroad line from Madison to Milwaukee as he believed it would cost the state $7.5 million per year to operate and would not prove profitable. This was in spite of offers by the mayor of Madison and the Dane County executive to
The typical Wisconsin worker makes $5,000 less each year than our neighbors in Minnesota" under Gov. Scott Walker’s policies. [SEP] 2011 Wisconsin protests // local governments almost $1.5 billion, outweighing the reductions in state aid in the budget. He added that the unions claim they are willing to accept concessions, but their actions spoke louder than their words. During the three weeks following the publication of the opinion piece, local unions across the state pursued contracts without new pension or health-insurance contributions. Walker cited Governor Mitch Daniels as an example for his own budget repair when they repealed collective bargaining in Indiana in 2005, and claims it helped government become more efficient and responsive. He said the average pay for Indiana state employees has
The typical Wisconsin worker makes $5,000 less each year than our neighbors in Minnesota" under Gov. Scott Walker’s policies. [SEP] Scott Walker (politician) // Wisconsin system and the state prisons. Other estimates of the subsidies go as high as $4.8 billion, which meant that the cost of the subsidy per job (assuming 13,000 jobs) was more than $346,000. Depending on how many jobs are created, the cost per job may go as high as more than a million dollars. Walker exempted the firm from Wisconsin's environmental rules regarding wetlands and streams. Walker and the Trump administration rolled back air pollution limits in the area of the plant, overruling objections of Environmental Protection Agency staff. The plant was estimated to contribute significantly to air pollution
The typical Wisconsin worker makes $5,000 less each year than our neighbors in Minnesota" under Gov. Scott Walker’s policies. [SEP] The Agenda Project // slashed Amtrak’s funding every year. In 2015 Gov. and GOP presidential candidate Scott Walker slashed the budget for Wisconsin’s public education system by $250 million, the deepest in the history of Wisconsin’s higher education, leaving 41,000 without student aid. Scott Walker’s suggestion to people who want to escape poverty is to “learn more and earn more”. His suggestion for those who follow that advice and are now drowning in student loans is… "hold your breath.” With the help of One Wisconsin Now, Think Progress, StudentDebtCrisis.org, and Wisconsin Jobs Now, the “Hold Your Breath” ad had been widely distributed to highlight
The typical Wisconsin worker makes $5,000 less each year than our neighbors in Minnesota" under Gov. Scott Walker’s policies. [SEP] 2011 Wisconsin protests // compensation." In January 2011, the state legislature passed a series of bills providing additional tax cuts and deductions for businesses at "a two-year cost of $67 million." In early February, the Walker administration projected a budget shortfall in 2013 (Wisconsin functions on two-year budgets) of $3.6 billion and a $137 million shortfall for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2011. The Walker-backed bill proposed to alleviate the budget shortfall included taking away the ability of public sector unions to bargain collectively over pensions and health care and limiting pay raises of public employees to the rate of inflation, as well
The typical Wisconsin worker makes $5,000 less each year than our neighbors in Minnesota" under Gov. Scott Walker’s policies. [SEP] 2011 Wisconsin protests // least $25 million a year and possibly as much as $36 million in 2012 from health care benefit changes due to not having to negotiate with unions. This is offset by about $14 million in cuts in state aid. This contrasts with Mayor Tom Barrett's initial comments in March, after the Walker administration and the nonpartisan Legislative Fiscal Bureau released figures on the extent of the aid cuts in the state budget. Racine County estimates it will save over $1.5 million in employee pension contributions that resulted from recent state collective bargaining changes. In addition, county employees will be more
The typical Wisconsin worker makes $5,000 less each year than our neighbors in Minnesota" under Gov. Scott Walker’s policies. [SEP] Scott Walker (politician) // health insurance for the state's school districts. The changes to collective bargaining made it easier for school districts to change health insurance providers and negotiate better premiums. Walker claims that Wisconsin school districts have saved an estimated $30 million as a result of the change. In August 2012, the first investigation, which had been launched by John Chisholm, Milwaukee County District Attorney, a Democrat, into missing funds, was rolled into a second John Doe probe based on a theory that Governor Walker's campaign had illegally coordinated with conservative groups engaged in issue advocacy during the recall elections. The initial John
The typical Wisconsin worker makes $5,000 less each year than our neighbors in Minnesota" under Gov. Scott Walker’s policies. [SEP] 2011 United States public employee protests // to fund the West Virginia Occupational and Safety Act, which was passed in 1987 to regulate workplace safety but has never been funded. Legislation proposed by Republican Governor of Wisconsin Scott Walker to address a projected $3.6 billion budget shortfall has sparked protests in Wisconsin. The legislation would require state employees to contribute 5.8% of their salaries to cover pension costs, contribute 12.6% towards their health care premiums, and would limit collective bargaining rights for most public employee union members. Democrats and union leaders offered to accept the increased cost of benefits but not the removal of bargaining rights. Walker
The typical Wisconsin worker makes $5,000 less each year than our neighbors in Minnesota" under Gov. Scott Walker’s policies. [SEP] Scott Walker (politician) // less than half of his salary) during his first term, and reduced his give-back to $10,000 per year during his second term. During his eight years in office, there were disputes with the county board "over taxes, privatization of public services, quality of parks and public buildings, and delivery of social services", according to the "Milwaukee Journal Sentinel". The County Board approved several budgets over Walker's veto and he never submitted a budget with a higher property tax than the board had approved the prior year. During Walker's tenure the number of county employees was reduced by over 20% and
Apple has reopened all 42 China stores. [SEP] Apple Store // one of the 13 authorized Apple resellers in Kunming. In a follow-up report, Reuters indicated that local authorities in Kunming had closed two fake Apple Stores in that city due to lack of official business permits, but allowed three other such stores to stay open, including the one that had attracted international attention. The operators of that store had applied for a reseller license from Apple. At the time of the report, only four legitimate Apple Stores had opened in China, with two in Beijing and two in Shanghai. Following these events, more real Apple Stores in China began opening,
Apple has reopened all 42 China stores. [SEP] Censorship of the iTunes Store // access restricted sites in China were also removed later. The Apple News application bundled with iOS 9 is disabled in China for all users as well, of which all contents, including the articles already downloaded to the device, are not available to read in China. Apple's iBooks and iTunes Movies, available in China since September 2015, were both shut down in China in April 2016, less than seven months after the launch. The services were disabled by the State Administration of Press, Publication, Radio, Film and Television of China after the authority introduced regulations imposing strict curbs on online publishing,
Apple has reopened all 42 China stores. [SEP] Apple Store // an early one being the Shenzhen Apple Store on November 3, 2012. Apple Store Apple Store is a chain of retail stores owned and operated by Apple Inc. The stores sell Mac personal computers, iPhone smartphones, iPad tablet computers, iPod portable media players, Apple Watch smartwatches, Apple TV digital media players, software, and select third-party accessories. The first Apple Stores were originally opened as two locations in May 2001 by then-CEO Steve Jobs, after years of attempting but failing store-within-a-store concepts. Seeing a need for improved retail presentation of the company's products, he began an effort in 1997 to revamp
Apple has reopened all 42 China stores. [SEP] Apple Store // to offer those renovations. With some limit area closed, some stores are renovated by only adding Video Wall. Apple Yorkdale in Canada seems to be the first store getting this update, followed by Apple Vitoria Gardens in U.S., Apple Holiday Plaza Shenzhen in China and so on. All Apple Stores feature a Genius Bar, where customers can receive technical advice or set up service and repair for their products. The Genius Bar provides software support for macOS and hardware service on products that are not classified vintage or obsolete. However, in most cases the Geniuses will at least attempt to
Apple has reopened all 42 China stores. [SEP] IPhone // the first time that Apple has simultaneously launched two models and the inclusion of China in the list of markets contributed to the record sales result. Apple also announced that, , 200 million devices were running the iOS 7 update, making it the "fastest software upgrade in history." An Apple Store located at the Christiana Mall in Newark, Delaware, US claimed the highest iPhones sales figures in November 2013. The store's high sales results are due to the absence of a sales tax in the state of Delaware. The finalization of a deal between Apple and China Mobile, the world's
Apple has reopened all 42 China stores. [SEP] App Store (iOS) // the China app store. When this situation changes the app store will once again offer the "New York Times" app for download in China". The following July, it was reported that Apple had begun to remove listings in China for apps that circumvent government Internet censorship policies and new laws restricting virtual private network (VPN) services. Apple issued a statement, explaining that the app removals were a result of developers not complying with new laws in China requiring a government license for businesses offering VPNs, and that "These apps remain available in all other markets where they do business". In
Apple has reopened all 42 China stores. [SEP] Apple Store // accessories wall. Apple also added Forum Displays to all stores to provide better Today at Apple experience. All allows customers to try Apple or third-party products before buying just like they could do in the new design stores. Starting May 2018, Apple renew its stores in a new way, by adding Video Wall to stores around the world, and upgrade some stores like Apple Palo Alto and Apple Causeway Bay in Hong Kong with Avenue Walls which feature the same design as the new stores ones. Apple closed Apple Regent Street in the UK and Apple Wangfujing in Beijing, China
Apple has reopened all 42 China stores. [SEP] Apple Store // respective operating systems. iOS devices prevent passcodes from being enabled and Mac computers revert to original state after a reboot. Additionally, in case of theft, a security measure renders devices useless, by activating a "kill switch" disabling them once out-of-reach of the store's Wi-Fi network. In 1993, Apple opened a store at its Apple Campus in Cupertino, California. The store is the only place in the world where Apple merchandise can be purchased, including T-shirts, mugs, and pens. In June 2015, the store was closed for renovations, and in September it was reopened, offering a new design and, for the
Apple has reopened all 42 China stores. [SEP] Apple Store // seem to have gone to mimic the look and feel of a real Apple Store." The fake Apple Store was mentioned by U.S. presidential contender Mitt Romney in the . Chinese law prohibits retailers from copying the look and feel of competitors' stores, but enforcement is lax. According to "The Wall Street Journal", unauthorized Apple resellers are found throughout China; the blogger's original post noted that two such stores were located within walking distance of the first knockoff, one of them with a misspelled sign reading "Apple Stoer". An employee of the first knockoff confirmed that the store was not
Apple has reopened all 42 China stores. [SEP] Apple Store // first time, selling iPhones, a notable product omission from years past. In July 2011, an American expatriate blogger who lives in the southwestern Chinese city of Kunming reported on her discovery of what she called "the best ripoff store we had ever seen"—a fake Apple Store, complete with the glass exterior, wood display tables, winding staircase and large promotional posters found in legitimate Apple Stores, and with employees wearing lanyards and the same T-shirts as actual Apple Store employees. "The Wall Street Journal" reported that the store had "gotten widespread international attention for the remarkable lengths to which its proprietors
Turkey will hire more medics, stop exporting face masks: minister. [SEP] Rachael Maskell // can and use every space they had to offer to aid people fleeing war in Syria and Northern Iraq, she said "we are in the midst of a humanitarian crisis that is getting worse, I am incensed that Turkey is hosting over one and a half million refugees and our government says we will open our borders to no more than six men, women and children a year in each constituency." Maskell spoke in the Trade-Union Bill 2nd Reading debate on 14 September 2015. She referred the house to her Register of Interests as a member of Unite the Union
Turkey will hire more medics, stop exporting face masks: minister. [SEP] Selahattin Özmen // Gothenburg, Sweden and in 2006 in Hamburg, Germany (http://www.selahattinozmen.com.tr/biyografi) Selahattin Özmen performed Turkey's third face transplant, first woman-to-woman and first three-dimensional (with bone tissue), face transplant, a partial face transplant, on March 17, 2012 on Hatice Nergis, a twenty-year-old woman, at Gazi University's hospital in Ankara. The patient from Kahramanmaraş had lost six years ago her upper jaw including mouth, lips, palate, teeth and nasal cavity by a firearm accident, and was since then unable to eat. She had undergone in the past around 35 reconstructive plastic surgery operations. The donor was a 28-year-old woman in Istanbul, who committed suicide.
Turkey will hire more medics, stop exporting face masks: minister. [SEP] Akdeniz University // students, and 1,305 post-graduates. On January 21, 2011, Turkish surgeon Dr. Ömer Özkan and his team successfully performed the country’s first-ever full face transplant at the university's hospital in Antalya. The 19-year-old patient, Uğur Acar's face was badly burnt in a house fire when he was a baby. The donor was 39-year-old Ahmet Kaya, who died on January 20. The surgery team accomplished at the same time another transplant, a double-arm and one-leg limb transplant, on Atilla Kavdı using the organs of the same donor. Surgeon Dr. Ömer Özkan performed on May 16, 2012 with his team country's fourth face
Turkey will hire more medics, stop exporting face masks: minister. [SEP] Face transplant // by Özkan, at Akdeniz University hospital following a 6.5-hour operation, making it the fifth such operation to take place in the country. It was the 25th face transplant operation in the world. The donor was Andrzej Kucza, a 42-year-old Polish tourist who was declared brain dead following a heart attack on July 14 while swimming in Turkey's sea resort Muğla. The 27-year-old patient Recep Sert came immediately from Bursa to Antalya for the surgery in late July 2017. On 23 August 2013, surgeon Ömer Özkan and his team at Akdeniz University performed the sixth face transplant surgery in Turkey. Salih
Turkey will hire more medics, stop exporting face masks: minister. [SEP] 2016–present purges in Turkey // ministry, 838 health officials, and hundreds others from other ministries, 631 academics, 8 members of the Council of State). In early February 2017, the Turkish government dismissed more than 4,400 public servants from their jobs, including over 300 university teachers. On 14 February 2017, the Turkish government arrested 834 people with alleged links with PKK. The mass arrest has been linked to the constitutional referendum, to which most Kurdish factions are opposed. After the April 16 referendum, 38 activists denouncing irregularities were detained. On 26 April 2017, 1009 police officers were accused of being a secret Gulenist network within the
Turkey will hire more medics, stop exporting face masks: minister. [SEP] Medical tourism // of people each year travel Turkey for their medical treatments. Turkey is especially becoming a hub for hair transplant surgery. In February 2018 it was reported that the country was the worst place for botched plastic surgery operations on British people with Dr Mehmet Kaya of Marmaris singled out for criticism. The president of the British Association of Aesthetic Plastic Surgeons said operations were performed on people who were not appropriate for surgery, and that unscrupulous practitioners have endangered their health for profit. The National Health Service is publicly owned. It attracts medical tourism principally to specialist centres in London.
Turkey will hire more medics, stop exporting face masks: minister. [SEP] Ayşen Gürcan // in Turkey to wear a headscarf. The appointment was seen as significant due to the staunchly secular political traditions of Turkey, which until recently banned the use of the headscarf by MPs and civil servants. It was claimed that Davutoğlu had to phone her 8 times to invite her to become a Minister, since she was abroad while the interim government was being formed. Amid several controversial tweets on her "Twitter" account, Gürcan claimed that if a Muslim family women did not know how to make börek [a form of pasty originating from Turkey], then that family would fall apart.
Turkey will hire more medics, stop exporting face masks: minister. [SEP] Face transplant // country's fourth and their second full face transplant. The face and ears of 27-year-old patient Turan Çolak from Izmir were burnt when he fell into an oven when he was three and half years old. The donor was Tevfik Yılmaz, a 19-year-old man from Uşak who had attempted suicide on 8 May. He was declared brain dead in the evening hours of 15 May after having been in intensive care for seven days. His parents donated all his organs. On 18 July 2013, the face of a Polish man was successfully given to a Turkish man in a transplant performed
Turkey will hire more medics, stop exporting face masks: minister. [SEP] 2016–present purges in Turkey // Turkish police force, and were detained. 9,100 policemen have been suspended On 29 April 2017, Turkey blocked Wikipedia and dismissed 3,974 more civil servants. The NYT qualified the move as "an expand[ing] crackdown on dissent and free expression". On 5 June, the Turkish interior ministry announces that 130 people, living outside the country and suspected of militant links, will lose their citizenship unless they return to Turkey within three months and meet government standards. Named suspects include U.S.-based cleric Fethullah Gülen, and Peoples' Democratic Party leaders Faysal Sariyildiz, Tuğba Hezer, and Özdal Üçer. (Reuters) 15 June 2017, UN Mechanism for
Turkey will hire more medics, stop exporting face masks: minister. [SEP] Guy Fawkes mask // Samuel Muston of "The Independent" downplayed the effect of the ban. The "Manama Voice" reported that use of mask in protests increased following the ban. The masks were used by anti-government protestors in Thailand in 2012, and by protestors in Turkey in 2013. They were also used in protests in Brazil and Egypt in 2013. In May 2013, the government of Saudi Arabia banned the importation of the masks, and said that it would confiscate any found on sale. The Ministry of Islamic Affairs stated that the mask is "a symbol of rebels and revenge", and warned imams and parents
Rick Perry Says President Barack Obama’s overturning of the Mexico City Policy means federal tax dollars can be used "to fund abortion all over the world. [SEP] Mexico City policy // being used only against foreign NGOs, while not invoked against U.S. NGOs. President Bill Clinton rescinded the Mexico City policy on January 22, 1993. He referred to the policy as being "excessively broad" and stated that it had "undermined efforts to promote safe and efficacious family planning programs in foreign nations". On January 22, 2001, President George W. Bush reinstated the policy by executive order, stating, "It is my conviction that taxpayer funds should not be used to pay for abortions or advocate or actively promote abortion, either here or abroad. It is therefore my belief that the Mexico City
Rick Perry Says President Barack Obama’s overturning of the Mexico City Policy means federal tax dollars can be used "to fund abortion all over the world. [SEP] Mexico City policy // day, the 36th anniversary of the "Roe v. Wade" decision and the day of the large March for Life in Washington. Both of Obama's predecessors had taken action on respective January 22nds at the beginnings of their first terms. The Vatican condemned Obama's repeal of the policy almost immediately. The Sandbæk Report of the European Union, which calls for the funding of the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA), was seen by some Catholic commentators as a contrast to the Mexico City policy. The European commissioner Poul Nielson said that the European Union wished to "fill the decency gap" left by
Rick Perry Says President Barack Obama’s overturning of the Mexico City Policy means federal tax dollars can be used "to fund abortion all over the world. [SEP] Mexico City policy // States Congress signed by 233 members condemning the policy. The forum has stated that the policy "undermines internationally agreed consensus and goals". Supporters of the policy have argued, using the example of the Philippines, that the ban prevents overseas health organizations from using U.S. government funds to contravene the contraception and abortion laws of the countries in which they operate. Supporters also argue that the policy prevents the health agencies from promoting abortion at the expense of other birth control methods. President Obama in his rescinding of the policy on January 23, 2009, had chosen not to act the previous
Rick Perry Says President Barack Obama’s overturning of the Mexico City Policy means federal tax dollars can be used "to fund abortion all over the world. [SEP] Abortion in the United States // opposition has been extended under the Foreign Assistance Act: in 1973 Jesse Helms introduced an amendment banning the use of aid money to promote abortion overseas, and in 1984 the Mexico City Policy prohibited financial support to any overseas organization that performed or promoted abortions. The "Mexico City Policy" was revoked by President Bill Clinton and subsequently reinstated by President George W. Bush. President Barack Obama overruled this policy by Executive Order on January 23, 2009, and it was reinstated on January 23, 2017, by President Donald Trump. The risk of death due to legal abortion has fallen considerably since
Rick Perry Says President Barack Obama’s overturning of the Mexico City Policy means federal tax dollars can be used "to fund abortion all over the world. [SEP] Mexico City policy // instituted by U.S. President Ronald Reagan in 1984. The final language of the 1984 policy was negotiated by the deputy chairman of the U.S. delegation, Alan Keyes, then an Assistant Secretary of State. After the establishment of the Mexico City policy, organizations were required to meet its specified conditions in order to be eligible for federal funding from the United States, and as a result, several international abortion agencies no longer received a portion of their funds from this source. The International Planned Parenthood Federation (IPPF) did not alter its operation and lost more than 20% of its total funding.
Rick Perry Says President Barack Obama’s overturning of the Mexico City Policy means federal tax dollars can be used "to fund abortion all over the world. [SEP] First 100 days of Donald Trump's presidency // its face" and violates "the separation of powers doctrine and deprives [the plaintiffs] of their Tenth and Fifth Amendment rights." Trump's appointment of a conservative justice, Neil Gorsuch, his reinstatement of the Mexico City Policy, and his signing H.J. Res. 43—HHS Title X Funding for Planned Parenthood Rule are in keeping with his pro-life policy. On January 23, Trump signed a Presidential Memorandum on the Mexico City Policy regarding federal funding to foreign NGOs. This is a key point in the abortion debate as foreign NGOs that receive US federal funding will no longer be able to offer, promote or
Rick Perry Says President Barack Obama’s overturning of the Mexico City Policy means federal tax dollars can be used "to fund abortion all over the world. [SEP] Mexico City policy // Clinton in January 1993, then re-instituted in January 2001 as Republican President George W. Bush took office, rescinded on January 23, 2009, as Democratic President Barack Obama took office and reinstated on January 23, 2017, as Republican President Donald Trump assumed the office. The policy requires non-governmental organizations to "agree as a condition of their receipt of [U.S.] federal funds" that they would "neither perform nor actively promote abortion as a method of family planning in other nations". The policy has exceptions for abortions done in response to rape, incest, or life-threatening conditions. The policy has significant impacts internationally. All
Rick Perry Says President Barack Obama’s overturning of the Mexico City Policy means federal tax dollars can be used "to fund abortion all over the world. [SEP] Phil Harvey // (NGOs) receiving federal funding to refrain from performing or promoting abortion services as a method of family planning in other countries. In "DKT Memorial Fund Ltd. vs. USAID", Harvey and two foreign NGOs fought to have the Mexico City Policy overturned. Ultimately, the DC Circuit U.S. Court of Appeals ruling contributed to the policy being used only against foreign NGOs, while not invoked against U.S. NGOs. The policy was removed by President Bill Clinton in 1993, re-imposed by George W. Bush in 2001 and removed again by Barack Obama in 2009. In 1989, Harvey founded DKT International, named for the
Rick Perry Says President Barack Obama’s overturning of the Mexico City Policy means federal tax dollars can be used "to fund abortion all over the world. [SEP] Rick Perry 2012 presidential campaign // Obama were overblown, as Catholic organizations had received $1.5 billion in federal grant monies in the last two years of Obama's administration. Perry gave an interview to the "Des Moines Register" editorial board arguing against the Supreme Court decisions to end prayer in schools. He said the rulings were made by "eight unelected and, frankly, unaccountable judges" and called the Supreme Court Justice Sonia Sotomayor "Montemayor." The next day, he delivered a speech criticizing a $535 million bailout the Obama administration gave to the solar power industry, saying it was "lost to the country Solyndra", in spite of the fact
Rick Perry Says President Barack Obama’s overturning of the Mexico City Policy means federal tax dollars can be used "to fund abortion all over the world. [SEP] Political positions of Harry Reid // by pregnancy and birth-related expenses borne by Medicaid. The bill received Republican opposition and failed. Reid voted in favor of an amendment that would over-turn the Mexico City Policy. The policy bans U.S. aid to overseas health organizations that give men and women birth control, provide information about abortion procedures, or that perform abortion procedures as part of a "family planning policy". Opponents of the policy argue that the ban keeps funds from going to non-governmental organizations distributing condoms and USAID-donated birth control and has resulted in an increase in unwanted pregnancies, and thus an increase in the rate of
A driver in Las Vegas shouted "Allahu Akbar" as she deliberately struck multiple pedestrians with her vehicle, and police have been instructed to suppress that detail of the story. [SEP] 2011 Tel Aviv nightclub attack // by the onrushing car. According to the testimonies of police and people present at the scene, the driver was slumped over the steering wheel and the incident was initially perceived as an accident, but as a police officer approached to assist the driver, he began screaming "Allahu Akbar", emerged from the car and "brutally" stabbed a nightclub security officer who had approached the car to assist the presumed accident victim, before being subdued by Yitzhak Assaraf, manager of the nightclub, together with security guards Oleg Chritov and Grigory Sokolov. The three men who subdued the terrorist were injured in the
A driver in Las Vegas shouted "Allahu Akbar" as she deliberately struck multiple pedestrians with her vehicle, and police have been instructed to suppress that detail of the story. [SEP] Sean Hannity // said that "Allahu Akbar" can be used under the most "beautiful circumstances" in the immediate aftermath of the 2017 New York City truck attack wherein a terrorist shouted "Allahu Akbar". Fox News omitted that Tapper had said that the use of "Allahu Akbar" in the terrorist attack was not one of these beautiful circumstances. A headline on FoxNews.com was preceded by a tag reading "OUTRAGEOUS". The Fox News Twitter account distorted the statement even more, saying "Jake Tapper Says 'Allahu Akbar' Is 'Beautiful' Right After NYC Terror Attack" in a tweet that was later deleted. Even after the Fox News
A driver in Las Vegas shouted "Allahu Akbar" as she deliberately struck multiple pedestrians with her vehicle, and police have been instructed to suppress that detail of the story. [SEP] Würzburg train attack // Late on 18 July 2016, a youth with a hatchet and a knife injured four Hong Kongers on a train in Würzburg, Germany. A fifth person, a woman who was walking her dog, was "hit with the axe twice in the face" and seriously injured. The perpetrator was located by the police about from the train. As they approached him, he tried to attack and was shot dead. He reportedly shouted ""Allahu Akbar"!" during the attack, according to Oliver Platzer, a spokesman for the Bavarian Interior Ministry. Public prosecutor Erik Ohlenschlagern said police heard the attacker call out ""Allahu Akbar"!"
A driver in Las Vegas shouted "Allahu Akbar" as she deliberately struck multiple pedestrians with her vehicle, and police have been instructed to suppress that detail of the story. [SEP] Takbir // said "Allāhu akbar" after receiving a life sentence in 2010 for his attempted bombing. During the incident aboard American Airlines Flight 1561 in 2011, the person attempting to bash his way into the cockpit was heard shouting "Allāhu akbar". Mohammed Merah recorded himself shouting "Allahu akbar" as he killed three French paratroopers in the 2012 Midi-Pyrénées shootings. In the 2014 Jerusalem synagogue attack witnesses reported that the perpetrators screamed "Allāhu akbar" as they axed and shot at the worshippers. The killers in the January 2015 "Charlie Hebdo" shooting in Paris shouted "Allāhu akbar" during their attack. During the November 2015
A driver in Las Vegas shouted "Allahu Akbar" as she deliberately struck multiple pedestrians with her vehicle, and police have been instructed to suppress that detail of the story. [SEP] 2017 Fresno shootings // parked vehicles, one that struck a nearby building, and a sixth that has yet to be recovered. Witnesses said that the gunman cursed as he fired. Officers responding to shotspotter reports found Muhammad running down the street, and managed to arrest him. During the arrest, Muhammad shouted, ""Allahu Akbar"!" Several bullets and speedloaders for a .357 Magnum revolver were recovered from his person, but no firearm was found. According to Chief Jerry Dyer, the gun was wrapped in clothing and picked up by a Hispanic male who had met up with Muhammad shortly after the shootings and then fled the
A driver in Las Vegas shouted "Allahu Akbar" as she deliberately struck multiple pedestrians with her vehicle, and police have been instructed to suppress that detail of the story. [SEP] Quebec City mosque shooting // and shouted "Allahu Akbar" before shooting. Police later determined that there was only one gunman and said only one of the detained individuals was considered a suspect. The other individual was released shortly afterwards, and is considered a witness. He later said he was outside the mosque when he heard the shooting and went inside when it ceased. He added that he mistook the arrival of the armed police as the shooter returning and fled after which he was arrested. According to an affidavit released to the media in March, he was administering first aid to the victims when he
A driver in Las Vegas shouted "Allahu Akbar" as she deliberately struck multiple pedestrians with her vehicle, and police have been instructed to suppress that detail of the story. [SEP] Takbir // beheaded in Iraq in 2004, the perpetrators can be heard shouting "Allāhu akbar". And in the 2007 Fort Dix attack plot, a group of radical Islamists who were convicted of plotting an attack on the Fort Dix military base in New Jersey had videotaped themselves shooting weapons and shouting "Allāhu akbar". In 2008, Aafia Siddiqui is alleged to have fired at US interrogators while yelling "Allāhu akbar". During the 2009 Fort Hood shooting, witnesses reported that gunman Nidal Malik Hasan shouted "Allāhu akbar" before opening fire, killing 13 people and wounding 30 others. Times Square bomber Faisal Shahzad smiled and
A driver in Las Vegas shouted "Allahu Akbar" as she deliberately struck multiple pedestrians with her vehicle, and police have been instructed to suppress that detail of the story. [SEP] Luigi Brugnaro // Germane to these actions and statements he has engaged in a series of verbal back and forths with the entertainer and activist Elton John, who maintains a home in the city. On August 24 2017, Mayor Luigi Brugnaro ordered Italian police to shoot on site anyone shouting "Allāhu akbar". In his statement, he said: "We need to increase our security when it comes to terrorism. We had four would be terrorists arrested in Venice a few months ago who wanted to blow up the Rialto bridge. They said they wanted to go and meet Allah so we will send them
A driver in Las Vegas shouted "Allahu Akbar" as she deliberately struck multiple pedestrians with her vehicle, and police have been instructed to suppress that detail of the story. [SEP] Trolley Square shooting // bought the guns in a pawn shop. In the light of the War on Terrorism some commentators, including John Gibson and U.S. Representative Chris Cannon suggested that Talović repeatedly shouted "Allahu Akbar" prior to his death, suggesting a religious motive, citing video of the rampage which supposedly captures Talović's religious shouting. After being told that police investigators had not uncovered any evidence to support his claims, Cannon's spokesman said the congressman accepts that Talović did not yell anything of a religious nature. FBI agent Patrick Kiernan stated that he had no reason to suspect terrorism. Ajka Omerović was quoted as
A driver in Las Vegas shouted "Allahu Akbar" as she deliberately struck multiple pedestrians with her vehicle, and police have been instructed to suppress that detail of the story. [SEP] Takbir // Paris attacks, witnesses reported hearing gunmen shouting "Allāhu akbar" before opening fire in the Bataclan theatre, killing 89 people. When Russian ambassador to Turkey Andrei Karlov was assassinated on 19 December 2016 at Ankara, the capital of Turkey, after shooting the ambassador the shooter shouted "Allāhu akbar" and "Do not forget Aleppo", referring to Russia helping the Syrian government conquer the eastern part of the city of Aleppo only a few days prior to the assassination. Following the 2017 Barcelona attacks, the mayor of Venice, Luigi Brugnaro, has said that anyone shouting "Allāhu akbar" in St Mark's Square will be
Global spa, wellness industry estimated at $3.4 trillion: report. [SEP] Wellness tourism // alone (United States, Germany, Japan, France, Austria) account for more than half the market (59 percent of expenditures). As of 2014, the US is the largest wellness tourism market, with $180.7 billion in annual, combined international and domestic expenditures. The US is the top destination for inbound international wellness tourism, with 7.1 million international, inbound trips. Europe and high-income Asian countries are primary sources of wellness tourists traveling to the US. Domestic tourism accounts for the majority (94 percent) of wellness trips in North America. Americans and Canadians receive—and take—few vacation days compared to workers in other countries making domestic,
Global spa, wellness industry estimated at $3.4 trillion: report. [SEP] Wellness tourism // weekend trips the most popular wellness travel option. Europe is the second largest wellness tourism market, with $158.4 billion in annual, combined international and domestic expenditures; the region ranks highest in number of wellness trips with 216.2 million, compared to North America's 171.7 in 2013. Europeans have long believed in health benefits derived from mineral baths, saunas, thalassotherapy, and other natural and water-based treatments. Thermal resorts and hotels in Turkey and Hungary cater to wellness tourists, many of whom are subsidized by host countries such as Norway and Denmark seeking to mitigate costs of medical procedures for patients with chronic
Global spa, wellness industry estimated at $3.4 trillion: report. [SEP] Economy of India // 2015 and 2020, to reach US$280 billion, buoyed by rising incomes, greater health awareness, increased precedence of lifestyle diseases, and improved access to health insurance. The ayurveda industry in India recorded a market size of $4.4 billion in 2018. The Confederation of Indian Industry estimates that the industry will grow at a CAGR 16% until 2025. Nearly 75% of the market comprises over-the-counter personal care and beauty products, while ayurvedic well-being or ayurvedic tourism services accounted for 15% of the market. The logistics industry in India was worth over $160 billion in 2016, and grew at a CAGR of 7.8%
Global spa, wellness industry estimated at $3.4 trillion: report. [SEP] Wellness tourism // 68 percent of expenditures (or $299 billion). International wellness tourism represents 16 percent of wellness travel and 32 percent of expenditures ($139 billion market). The wellness tourism market includes primary and secondary wellness tourists. Primary wellness tourists travel entirely for wellness purposes while secondary wellness tourists engage in wellness-related activities as part of a trip. Secondary wellness tourists constitute the significant majority (87 percent) of total wellness tourism trips and expenditures (85 percent). Wellness travelers pursue diverse services, including physical fitness and sports; beauty treatments; healthy diet and weight management; relaxation and stress relief; meditation; yoga; and health-related education. Wellness
Global spa, wellness industry estimated at $3.4 trillion: report. [SEP] Wellness tourism // conditions requiring expensive surgeries. The Asia-Pacific region ranks as the third largest with $6.4 billion in annual, combined international and domestic expenditures. Wellness traditions date back thousands of years in this region, and some of those wellness practices (e.g., Ayurveda, traditional Chinese medicine (TCM), yoga, hilot, Thai massage) incorporate preventive, curative, and therapeutic aspects that lie in the cross-over area between wellness and medical tourism. Latin America-Caribbean is the fourth largest region for wellness tourism in terms of number of trips and expenditures. Domestic tourism accounts for about 71 percent of wellness tourism trips, and 54 percent of wellness tourism
Global spa, wellness industry estimated at $3.4 trillion: report. [SEP] World Drug Report // at much higher prices than Southwest and Southeast Asia). Another fundamental problem with the drug data they cite is that it reflects not the “ trade flow but the estimate of turnover.” The article projects an estimated valuation number for global drug market to be at $20–25 billion annually which is a stark contrast to the UNDCP’s $500 billion. In their book Sex, Drugs, and Body Counts: The Politics of Numbers In Global Crime and Conflict,Peter Andreas, Kelly M. Greenhill too argue that these figures may be, and in fact often are, distorted and manipulated. They write, “ Illicitness makes
Global spa, wellness industry estimated at $3.4 trillion: report. [SEP] Wellness tourism // in Asia, the Middle East/North Africa, Sub-Saharan Africa and developing countries, wellness tourism is expected to grow 50 percent faster than the overall tourism industry over the next five years. Market is expected to grow through 2014. Wellness tourists are generally high-yield tourists, spending, on average, 130 percent more than the average tourist. In 2013, International wellness tourists spend approximately 59 percent more per trip than the average international tourist; domestic wellness tourists spend about 159 percent more than the average domestic tourist. Domestic wellness tourism is significantly larger than its international equivalent, representing 84 percent of wellness travel and
Global spa, wellness industry estimated at $3.4 trillion: report. [SEP] Huda Beauty // popular brand wants to be one of the bully problems or one of the solutions. This ends by Kattan’s replied posts and apology online. The beauty industry is estimated to be worth $445 billion. A key driver to its rapid growth are influencers on visually focused social platforms like YouTube, Instagram and Pinterest who build blog-to-brand businesses such as Fenty Beauty. According to "Forbes", the barrier to entry for cosmetic businesses has fallen, as entrepreneurs with a strong social media following can hire laboratories to test formulae on a contract basis and can sell their products through stores such as
Global spa, wellness industry estimated at $3.4 trillion: report. [SEP] Cannabis industry // addition of ancillary products and services amounts to an economic impact that is estimated at four times the value of direct sales of cannabis. Based on this multiplier, the total economic impact of the cannabis industry in the United States was $16-$18 billion in 2016 and is expected to reach $47.6-$68.4 billion by 2021 . Multiple trade associations have been incepted to cater to the emerging cannabis industry. In North America, the most prominent is the National Cannabis Industry Association which is focused on "advancing the interests of the legitimate and responsible cannabis industry". Other trade organizations include the National
Global spa, wellness industry estimated at $3.4 trillion: report. [SEP] Wellness tourism // Wellness tourism Wellness tourism is travel for the purpose of promoting health and well-being through physical, psychological, or spiritual activities. While wellness tourism is often correlated with medical tourism because health interests motivate the traveler, wellness tourists are proactive in seeking to improve or maintain health and quality of life, often focusing on prevention, while medical tourists generally travel reactively to receive treatment for a diagnosed disease or condition. Within the US $3.4 trillion spa and wellness economy, wellness tourism is estimated to total US$494 billion or 14.6 percent of all 2013 domestic and international tourism expenditures. Driven by growth
US experts reviewing low-carb, other diets for guidelines. [SEP] Low-carbohydrate diet // found that reducing dietary fat intake had no effect on coronary heart disease and had no effect on overall mortality. The authors of this meta-analysis conclude that the available evidence from randomized controlled trials does not support the recommendation of the 2015 - 2020 Dietary Guidelines for Americans that people reduce their fat intake. As with other diet plans, people who restrict calories with a low-carbohydrate diet might lose weight. In the case of low-carbohydrate diets, weight loss is helped by the increased feeling of fullness. A very low-carbohydrate diet performs slightly better than a low-fat diet for long-term weight
US experts reviewing low-carb, other diets for guidelines. [SEP] Low-carbohydrate diet // diets (low-GI diets) or low-glycemic-load diets (low-GL diets), in particular the Low GI Diet. The low-insulin-index diet, is similar, except it is based on measurements of direct insulemic responses i.e., the amount of insulin in the bloodstream to food rather than glycemic response to the amount of glucose in the bloodstream. Although such diet recommendations mostly involve lowering nutritive carbohydrates, some low-carbohydrate foods are discouraged, as well (e.g., beef). Low-carbohydrate diets are not an option recommended in the current Dietary Guidelines for Americans, which instead recommends a low fat diet. A systematic review of 62,421 participants in 10 dietary trials
US experts reviewing low-carb, other diets for guidelines. [SEP] Low-carbohydrate diet // Low-carbohydrate diet Low-carbohydrate diets or low-carb diets are dietary programs that restrict carbohydrate consumption. Foods high in easily digestible carbohydrates (e.g., sugar, bread, pasta) are limited or replaced with foods containing a higher percentage of fats and moderate protein (e.g., meat, poultry, fish, shellfish, eggs, cheese, nuts, and seeds) and other foods low in carbohydrates (e.g., most salad vegetables such as spinach, kale, chard and collards), although other vegetables and fruits (especially berries) are often allowed. The amount of carbohydrate allowed varies with different low-carbohydrate diets. Low-carbohydrate diets are not well-defined. the conflicting definitions of "low-carbohydrate" diets have complicated research
US experts reviewing low-carb, other diets for guidelines. [SEP] Low-carbohydrate diet // such as the AHA in 2001 and the American Kidney Fund in 2002 Low-carbohydrate advocates did some adjustments of their own, increasingly advocating controlling fat and eliminating "trans" fat. In the United States, the diet has continued to garner attention in the medical and nutritional science communities, and also has inspired a number of hybrid diets that include traditional calorie-counting and exercise regimens. Low-carbohydrate diet Low-carbohydrate diets or low-carb diets are dietary programs that restrict carbohydrate consumption. Foods high in easily digestible carbohydrates (e.g., sugar, bread, pasta) are limited or replaced with foods containing a higher percentage of fats and
US experts reviewing low-carb, other diets for guidelines. [SEP] Low-carbohydrate diet // a reported negligible effect on insulin levels in obese subjects. Most vegetables are low- or moderate-carbohydrate foods (in the context of these diets, fiber is excluded because it is not a nutritive carbohydrate). Some vegetables, such as potatoes, have high concentrations of starch, as do maize and rice. Most low-carbohydrate diet plans accommodate vegetables such as broccoli, spinach, cauliflower, and peppers. The Atkins diet recommends that most dietary carbs come from vegetables. Nevertheless, debate remains as to whether restricting even just high-carbohydrate fruits, vegetables, and grains is truly healthy. Contrary to the recommendations of most low-carbohydrate diet guides, some individuals
US experts reviewing low-carb, other diets for guidelines. [SEP] Obesity // interventions are recommended by the United States Preventive Services Task Force. In the short-term low carbohydrate diets appear better than low fat diets for weight loss. In the long term; however, all types of low-carbohydrate and low-fat diets appear equally beneficial. A 2014 review found that the heart disease and diabetes risks associated with different diets appear to be similar. Promotion of the Mediterranean diets among the obese may lower the risk of heart disease. Decreased intake of sweet drinks is also related to weight-loss. Success rates of long-term weight loss maintenance with lifestyle changes are low, ranging from 2–20%.
US experts reviewing low-carb, other diets for guidelines. [SEP] Low-carbohydrate diet // such, are relatively new and the results are still debated in the medical community. Supporters and opponents of low-carbohydrate diets frequently cite many articles (sometimes the same articles) as supporting their positions. One of the fundamental criticisms of those who advocate the low-carbohydrate diets has been the lack of long-term studies evaluating their health risks. This has begun to change as longer term studies are emerging. A meta-analysis of five clinical trials including 447 individuals found that low fat and low carbohydrate diets are equally effective for weight loss up to one year. Advocates of low-carbohydrate diets generally dispute any
US experts reviewing low-carb, other diets for guidelines. [SEP] Low-carbohydrate diet // into the subject. The American Academy of Family Physicians defines low-carbohydrate diets as diets that restrict carbohydrate intake to 20 to 60 grams per day, typically less than 20% of caloric intake. A 2016 review of low-carbohydrate diets classified diets with 50g of carbohydrate per day (less than 10% of total calories) as "very low" and diets with 40% of calories from carbohydrates as "mild" low-carbohydrate diets. In a 2015 review Richard D. Feinman and colleagues proposed that a very low carbohydrate diet had less that 10% caloric intake from carbohydrate, a low carbohydrate diet less than 26%, a medium
US experts reviewing low-carb, other diets for guidelines. [SEP] Low-carbohydrate diet // carbohydrate diet less than 45%, and a high carbohydrate diet more than 45%. The National Academy of Medicine recommends a minimum intake of 130 g of carbohydrate per day. The FAO and WHO similarly recommend that the majority of dietary energy come from carbohydrates. A popular misconception driving adoption of the diet for weight loss, is that by reducing carbohydrate intake dieters can in some way avoid weight gain from the calories in other macronutrients. However any weight loss resulting from a low-carbohydrate diet probably comes merely from reduced overall calorie intake. A category of diets is known as low-glycemic-index
US experts reviewing low-carb, other diets for guidelines. [SEP] Dieting // found that low-fat diets (without intentional restriction of caloric intake) resulted in average weight loss of over habitual eating. Low-carbohydrate diets such as Atkins and Protein Power are relatively high in protein and fats. Low-carbohydrate diets are sometimes "ketogenic" (i.e., they restrict carbohydrate intake sufficiently to cause ketosis). Low-calorie diets usually produce an energy deficit of 500–1,000 calories per day, which can result in a weight loss per week. One of the most commonly used low-calorie diets is Weight Watchers. The National Institutes of Health reviewed 34 randomized controlled trials to determine the effectiveness of low-calorie diets. They found that
Missouri physicians warn against bug-borne diseases. [SEP] Bourbon virus // is suspected to be transmitted by ticks or insects, and avoidance of bites is recommended to reduce risk of infection. In June 2017 a 58-year-old female Missouri State Park employee died from an infection of the Bourbon virus after it had been misdiagnosed for a significant period of time. The virus was discovered in 2014 by Olga Kosoy, Amy Lambert and colleagues from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) in Fort Collins, Colorado, in a sample of blood from the case patient. Tests had previously ruled out a wide range of tick-borne diseases including anaplasmosis, babesiosis, ehrlichiosis, Q
Missouri physicians warn against bug-borne diseases. [SEP] Bourbon virus // transmitted by a tick or insect, the main prevention method recommended is the avoidance of tick and insect bites. Bourbon virus Bourbon virus is an RNA virus in the genus "Thogotovirus" of the family "Orthomyxoviridae", which is similar to Dhori virus and Batken virus. It was first identified in 2014 in a man from Bourbon County, Kansas, United States, who died after being bitten by ticks. The case is the eighth report of human disease associated with a thogotovirus globally, and the first in the Western hemisphere. As of May 2015, a case was discovered in Stillwater, Oklahoma (the patient
Missouri physicians warn against bug-borne diseases. [SEP] Heartland virus // Regional Medical Center in St. Joseph, Missouri. The virus was first proven to infect humans in June 2009 when two farmers, living apart, presented with fever, fatigue, diarrhea, thrombocytopenia, and leukopenia. The Lone Star Tick transmits the virus to people when feeding on blood. The "Heartland virus" is part of the "Bunyavirales" order of viruses which contain 3 segments of −ssRNA. The genus of the virus is "Phlebovirus" and the species is the "Heartland virus". The "SFTS virus" from China, discovered in 2011, is a related species causing a similar disease. In 2013, researchers from the CDC and Missouri Western
Missouri physicians warn against bug-borne diseases. [SEP] Mosquito-borne disease // Mosquito-borne disease Mosquito-borne diseases or mosquito-borne illnesses are diseases caused by bacteria, viruses or parasites transmitted by mosquitoes. They can transmit disease without being affected themselves. Nearly 700 million people get a mosquito-borne illness each year resulting in over one million deaths. Diseases transmitted by mosquitoes include: malaria, dengue, West Nile virus, chikungunya, yellow fever, filariasis, tularemia, dirofilariasis, Japanese encephalitis, Saint Louis encephalitis, Western equine encephalitis, Eastern equine encephalitis, Venezuelan equine encephalitis, Ross River fever, Barmah Forest fever, La Crosse encephalitis, and Zika fever. as well as newly detected Keystone virus. The female mosquito of the genus "Anopheles" carry the
Missouri physicians warn against bug-borne diseases. [SEP] Medical entomology // congestion of nasal passages and asthma. There are many insects that bite including Mosquitoes, Biting Midges, Sandflies, Black flies, Horse Flies, Stable flies. Through feeding, insects or other arthropod vectors can transmit diseases to humans. Medical Entomologists and other medical professionals have helped to develop vaccines that can prevent humans from contracting some of those diseases. They have also developed ways to prevent the arthropods from biting humans. According to a study by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention published in May 2018, illnesses caused by insect bites have tripled from 2004 to 2016. Minor Bibliography Sistach, Xavier. Insectos
Missouri physicians warn against bug-borne diseases. [SEP] Makram N. Kaiser // his research conducted at the United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). His dissertation resulted in the publication of five scientific papers describing a new subgenus and species of "Argas", a rearing method for argasids, vector relationships and transmission of Quaranfil and Nyamanini viruses, and the inability of the fowl argasid "Argas persicus" (which also parasitizes wild birds) to transmit St. Louis encephalitis virus. The last finding resolved an important epidemiological question concerning tick involvement in the American viral encephalitides. After completing his undergraduate education at Cairo University, Kaiser joined US Naval Medical Research Unit No. 3 (NAMRU-3),
Missouri physicians warn against bug-borne diseases. [SEP] Robert A. Holekamp // an interest in apiology and began beekeeping. He continued the hobby upon his return to St. Louis, and Holekamp became among the first to engage in urban apiculture in the United States. Concerned about the spread of foulbrood disease among bees in Missouri, Holekamp proposed a bill and successfully lobbied both houses of the Missouri State Legislature to pass a law to address the epidemic. When the measure was unexpectedly vetoed by Governor Joseph W. Folk in 1908, Holekamp personally appealed to the Governor and convinced him to change his mind. Holekamp's bill created the state office of bee inspector,
Missouri physicians warn against bug-borne diseases. [SEP] Bourbon virus // test blood samples from people in Kansas who have recently experienced similar unexplained symptoms. It is unknown whether the virus can infect non-human animals, and studies are ongoing to investigate this. The case patient reported multiple tick bites, including a blood-filled tick in the shoulder area that was observed a few days before the onset of symptoms. Based on the history of the case patient, the virus is considered to be possibly tick-borne, but this has not been proven. Most thogotoviruses are transmitted solely by ticks, but the similar Batken virus has also been isolated from mosquitoes. Studies to establish
Missouri physicians warn against bug-borne diseases. [SEP] Mosquito-borne disease // mostly by "Aedes aegypti" mosquitoes. Other viral diseases like epidemic polyarthritis, Rift Valley fever, Ross River fever, St. Louis encephalitis, West Nile fever, Japanese encephalitis, La Crosse encephalitis and several other encephalitic diseases are carried by several different mosquitoes. Eastern equine encephalitis (EEE) and Western equine encephalitis (WEE) occurs in the United States where it causes disease in humans, horses, and some bird species. Because of the high mortality rate, EEE and WEE are regarded as two of the most serious mosquito-borne diseases in the United States. Symptoms range from mild flu-like illness to encephalitis, coma and death. Viruses carried
Missouri physicians warn against bug-borne diseases. [SEP] June 2008 Midwest floods // flooded buildings was one of major concern. Contact with polluted water and flood soaked item can cause rashes, and if it comes in contact with a skin cut, a variety of infections. Public officials warned of a potential increase in waterborne diseases such as dysentery as well as an increased population of mosquitoes, which can carry West Nile virus. Free tetanus shots were being offered in many areas, including Cedar Rapids and Iowa City. In addition to physical disease, residents were warned of potential mental health problems. Parents were told to expect developmental regressions in child survivors of the flood,
United States health care facilities face an intravenous bag shortage because of the devastation wreaked by Hurricane Maria in September 2017. [SEP] Hurricane Maria // since. This has caused a months long shortage in medical supplies in the United States, especially IV bags. Small IV bags often come pre-filled with saline or common drugs in solution, and have forced health care providers to scramble behind the scenes for alternative methods of drug delivery. In January 2018, when the shortage was projected to ease, flu season hit and led to a spike in patients. By the end of January 2018, approximately 450,000 customers remained without power island-wide. On February 11, an explosion and fire damaged a power substation in Monacillo, causing a large blackout in northern
United States health care facilities face an intravenous bag shortage because of the devastation wreaked by Hurricane Maria in September 2017. [SEP] Economic policy of the Nicolás Maduro administration // blame since 86% of medical supplies are imported. An "Associated Press" report dated February 2014 noted that "legions of the sick across the country" were being "neglected by a health care system doctors say is collapsing after years of deterioration." Doctors at one hospital "sent home 300 cancer patients ... when supply shortages and overtaxed equipment made it impossible for them to perform non-emergency surgeries." The government, which controlled "the dollars needed to buy medical supplies," had "simply not made enough" dollars available for those supplies, the AP reported. As a result, "many patients began dying from easily treatable illnesses
United States health care facilities face an intravenous bag shortage because of the devastation wreaked by Hurricane Maria in September 2017. [SEP] 2017–18 United States flu season // hospitals normally go through hundreds of IV bags a day to replenish fluids and give drugs, but during the shortage, some hospitals had resorted to directly injecting drugs into the vein via an IV push. "Time" also published an article arguing that the United States had become complacent concerning the flu, and that more needed to be done. 2017–18 United States flu season The 2017–18 United States flu season refers to influenza activity taking place in the United States from late 2017 through early 2018. The dominant strain of influenza was H3N2. In all states except Hawaii and Oregon, the
United States health care facilities face an intravenous bag shortage because of the devastation wreaked by Hurricane Maria in September 2017. [SEP] Healthcare in Venezuela // and Clinics explained how in less than a month, shortages of 53 medical products rose to 109 products and explained how the CADIVI system is to blame since 86% of supplies are imported with private sector hospitals claiming they owe suppliers billions of dollars in order to pay for debts. In early 2015, only 35% of hospital beds were available and 50% of operating rooms could not function due to the lack of resources. In March 2015, a Venezuelan NGO, Red de Medicos por la Salud, reported that there was a 68% shortage of surgical supplies and a 70% shortage
United States health care facilities face an intravenous bag shortage because of the devastation wreaked by Hurricane Maria in September 2017. [SEP] Hurricane Maria // 28, 44 percent of the population remained without drinking water and the U.S. military was shifting from "a short term, sea-based response to a predominantly land-based effort designed to provide robust, longer term support" with fuel delivery a top priority. A joint Army National Guard and Marine expeditionary unit (MEU) team established an Installation Staging Base at the former Roosevelt Roads Naval Station; they transported via helicopter Department of Health and Human Services assessment teams to hospitals across Puerto Rico to determine medical requirements. On September 29, the amphibious assault ship which had been providing relief activities to the island
United States health care facilities face an intravenous bag shortage because of the devastation wreaked by Hurricane Maria in September 2017. [SEP] Hurricane Maria // Juan on October 3. A couple of days later, "Comfort" departed on an around the island tour to assist, remaining a dozen miles off shore. Patients were brought to the ship by helicopter or boat tender after being referred by Puerto Rico's Department of Health. However, most of the 250 bed floating state-of-the-art hospital went unused despite overburdened island clinics and hospitals because there were few referrals. Governor Rosselló explained on or about October 17 that "The disconnect or the apparent disconnect was in the communications flow" and added "I asked for a complete revision of that so that we
United States health care facilities face an intravenous bag shortage because of the devastation wreaked by Hurricane Maria in September 2017. [SEP] Crisis in Venezuela // lack of resources. In March 2015, a Venezuelan NGO, Red de Medicos por la Salud, reported that there was a 68% shortage of surgical supplies and a 70% shortage of medicines in Venezuelan pharmacies. In May 2015, the Venezuelan Medical Federation said that 15,000 doctors had left the public health care system because of shortages of drugs and equipment and poor pay. In August 2015 Human Rights Watch said “We have rarely seen access to essential medicines deteriorate as quickly as it has in Venezuela except in war zones”. By the end of 2015, the Government reported that of all
United States health care facilities face an intravenous bag shortage because of the devastation wreaked by Hurricane Maria in September 2017. [SEP] Effects of Hurricane Irma in Florida // and found many patients suffering from heat stroke or a fever, with some having a body temperature as high as . Over 100 patients were transported to nearby hospitals due to respiratory distress and heat-related issues, though at least 8 died at the nursing home, with a total of 12 patients ultimately perishing. A lawyer hired by the family of one victim stated that the facility had more than a week to prepare and accused the nursing home of putting profits ahead of safety. In October, Governor Scott implemented emergency rules requiring assisted living facilities and nursing homes to have
United States health care facilities face an intravenous bag shortage because of the devastation wreaked by Hurricane Maria in September 2017. [SEP] Healthcare in Cuba // such as aspirin and antibiotics are conspicuously absent or only available on the black market. Surgeons lack basic supplies and must re-use latex gloves. Patients must buy their own sutures on the black market and provide bedsheets and food for extended hospital stays. The Cuban government blames the shortages on the embargo and states that those with more severe chronic diseases receive medicines. However, other sources suggest that those with such diseases lack medicines. It is also suggested that in some cases the local non-dollar stocks have been shipped abroad. The U.S. State Department has argued that during the economic
United States health care facilities face an intravenous bag shortage because of the devastation wreaked by Hurricane Maria in September 2017. [SEP] USNS Comfort (T-AH-20) // Ecuador, Colombia, El Salvador, Nicaragua, Guatemala, Costa Rica, and Haiti. During this mission, the ship's crew set up medical and surgical civil action program sites. These temporary medical clinics included primary care, internal medicine, obstetrics, and pediatric physicians as well as physical therapy, dental, radiology, laboratory, and pharmacy services. On board the ship general surgery, ophthalmology, oral and maxillofacial, and orthopedic surgeries were performed on pre-screened patients. On 29 September 2017, the ship set sail for Puerto Rico to bring assistance to the island after Hurricane Maria had hit it nine days earlier. She arrived the evening of October 3,
Wisconsin bill "grants drug companies and medical device manufacturers immunity from injuries and deaths caused by their products. [SEP] New England Compounding Center meningitis outbreak // settlement plan received prior approval from the official committee of unsecured creditors in the bankruptcy case. In September 2013, Michigan U.S. Representative Fred Upton introduced the Drug Quality and Security Act (H.R. 3204; 113th Congress) in response to the meningitis outbreak. Rep. Upton's district had three deaths and 19 total deaths occurred in Michigan. The bill passed the United States House of Representatives on September 28, 2013 by a voice vote and in November the United States Senate began working on a bill that would modify the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to grant the FDA more authority to
Wisconsin bill "grants drug companies and medical device manufacturers immunity from injuries and deaths caused by their products. [SEP] Mike Fitzpatrick // the sale and trafficking of illicit goods. Since December 2014, Fitzpatrick has been a leading voice in Congress on medical device safety. He has pressed the FDA after dangerous medical devices remained in use after causing serious injury and death. On June 8, 2016, Fitzpatrick and Representative Louise Slaughter (D-NY) introduced two bills to reform the medical device review and approval process. The first bill, Ariel Grace's Law, would allow victims of dangerous medical devices to seek legal recourse. The second bill, the Medical Device Guardians Act, would require physicians to identify and report unsafe medical devices and would protect
Wisconsin bill "grants drug companies and medical device manufacturers immunity from injuries and deaths caused by their products. [SEP] Public Readiness and Emergency Preparedness Act // immunity from liability at any time, thereby conferring upon drug companies legal immunity for harm caused by their misconduct. The immunity that could be conferred on drug and vaccine manufacturers can be applied regardless of wrongdoing by affected drug companies. Numerous consumer organizations vigorously opposed the legislation, including A-CHAMP, Eagle Forum, and Public Citizen, as well as first responder organizations representing nurses, firemen and veterans. A-CHAMP ran a series of full page advertisements in various publications in opposition to PREPA. Because the legislation delegaties broad legislative power to the executive branch of government, opponents view it as a violation of
Wisconsin bill "grants drug companies and medical device manufacturers immunity from injuries and deaths caused by their products. [SEP] Bill Monning // corporations, leaving farm workers without anyone to file a claim against. "This measure is modeled after previous legislation in the garment manufacturing and car wash industries to address fraudulent successor business scams," said Monning "The workers most affected and victimized by such unscrupulous practices are farm workers." In 2015, Monning co-sponsored, with Lois Wolk (D-Davis), SB 128, the California End of Life Option Act. The bill was modeled after Oregon's Death With Dignity Act (1994). The law authorizes adults with six months or less to live to request a doctor's prescription for life-ending medication. It passed the California Senate easily,
Wisconsin bill "grants drug companies and medical device manufacturers immunity from injuries and deaths caused by their products. [SEP] Health care in the United States // public. The FDA reviews and approves products and establishes drug labeling, drug standards, and medical device manufacturing standards. It sets performance standards for radiation and ultrasonic equipment. One of the more contentious issues related to drug safety is immunity from prosecution. In 2004, the FDA reversed a federal policy, arguing that FDA premarket approval overrides most claims for damages under state law for medical devices. In 2008 this was confirmed by the Supreme Court in Riegel v. Medtronic. On June 30, 2006, an FDA ruling went into effect extending protection from lawsuits to pharmaceutical manufacturers, even if it was found
Wisconsin bill "grants drug companies and medical device manufacturers immunity from injuries and deaths caused by their products. [SEP] Biodefense and Pandemic Vaccine and Drug Development Act of 2005 // top recipient in the Senate was the bill's sponsor, Senator Richard Burr, who received $288,684, according to the non-partisan Center for Responsive Politics. Senator Burr said the legislation "creates a true partnership" between the federal government, the pharmaceutical industry and academia to "walk the drug companies through the Valley of Death" in bringing a new vaccine or drug to market. Exemptions from open records and meetings laws would streamline the development process, safeguard national security and protect the proprietary interests of drug companies, say Republican backers of the bill. Senator Chris Dodd (D-Connecticut) said "Their plan will protect companies that
Wisconsin bill "grants drug companies and medical device manufacturers immunity from injuries and deaths caused by their products. [SEP] Public Readiness and Emergency Preparedness Act // fundamental principles of the US Constitution. Senator Edward Kennedy issued a statement demanding repeal of the PREPA legislation, while condemning the liability provisions as a giveaway to the drug industry. Kennedy said the bill makes it "essentially impossible" for injured parties to sue for damages, and that the measure allows common diseases to be used as a reason to activate the liability shield. Kennedy also notes that one of the drug companies that lobbied for PREPA is Sanofi Pasteur, which is under Food and Drug Administration (FDA) investigation for being connected to at least five cases of Guillain–Barré syndrome caused
Wisconsin bill "grants drug companies and medical device manufacturers immunity from injuries and deaths caused by their products. [SEP] Contaminated haemophilia blood products // against the companies, the bill allowed an estimated additional 75 eligible persons to file suits. The plaintiffs alleged that the companies manufactured and sold blood factor products as beneficial "medicines" that were, in fact, contaminated with HIV and/or HCV and resulted in the mass infection and/or deaths of thousands of hemophiliacs worldwide. The companies' failure to follow US federal law and conduct tests against viral hepatitis increased the risk of plasma containing HIV entering plasma pools. Contaminated haemophilia blood products Contaminated haemophilia blood products were a serious public health problem in the late 1970s up to 1985. These products caused
Wisconsin bill "grants drug companies and medical device manufacturers immunity from injuries and deaths caused by their products. [SEP] 41st Canadian Parliament // require healthcare institutions to report adverse drug reactions and medical device incidents. The Minister of Transport introduced the "Safeguarding Canada's Seas and Skies Act" implemented the International Convention on Liability and Compensation for Damage in Connection with the Carriage of Hazardous and Noxious Substances by Sea, extends civil and criminal immunity to oil spill response operations, and adds new reporting requirements to oil handling facilities. The same minister also introduce the "Safe and Accountable Rail Act" establishes minimum liability insurance levels for railway companies and creates a new compensation fund financed by shippers for use to cover damages from railway
Wisconsin bill "grants drug companies and medical device manufacturers immunity from injuries and deaths caused by their products. [SEP] Fred Upton // grant the Food and Drug Administration more power to regulate drug compounding in the wake of the New England Compounding Center meningitis outbreak. Upton indicated that three of the deceased were from his district. The bill passed in the House and was being debated in the Senate. On December 13, 2016, President Obama signed Upton's 21st Century Cures Act into law. The bill, co-sponsored by Upton and Diana DeGette (D-CO) passed the House 392 to 26 and the Senate 94 to 5. The act establishes funds for biomedical research and to develop and implement a strategic plan for biomedical research.
I’ll Take a Sperm Test, to Go: First at-Home Male-Infertility Test Debuts [SEP] Clearblue // occurred (1-2, 2-3 or over 3 weeks) alongside a pregnant result. It was released in Europe in 2008 and in the U.S in August 2013 under the name “Clearblue Advanced Digital Pregnancy Test with Weeks Estimator.” Clearblue has also launched ovulation and fertility home diagnostic products to help women identify their fertile days and to maximize their chances of conception. In 1989, Clearblue released the first one-step home ovulation test, enabling women to measure their surge in Luteinising Hormone (LH) to determine their most fertile days. In 1999, the brand launched the world’s first dual-hormone fertility monitor, which allowed women
I’ll Take a Sperm Test, to Go: First at-Home Male-Infertility Test Debuts [SEP] Joseph D. Schulman // diagnoses and treatments in human genetics and infertility, and is now an international company in these fields. The Institute was the first in the United States to introduce transvaginal non-surgical IVF (replacing laparoscopy and now the standard method worldwide), and also to report pregnancies using ICSI (intracytoplasmic sperm injection) for the treatment of severe male infertility. The Institute also was one of the first centers in the world to introduce chorionic villus sampling (CVS) as an earlier alternative to amniocentesis for prenatal diagnosis, the first to offer clinical testing for certain common mutations in the BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes which
I’ll Take a Sperm Test, to Go: First at-Home Male-Infertility Test Debuts [SEP] Carl Axel Gemzell // modern infertility therapy such as IVF. First pregnancies were achieved in 1961 and Gemzell recognized early that multiple pregnancy and the ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome were major side effect of the therapy. Gemzell’s pituitary gonadotropin preparation was soon replaced by FSH extracts from urine of postmenopausal women by a method that was developed by Piero Donini and later marketed as Pergonal. Decades later pituitary extractions were proven to be unsafe as Creutzfeldt–Jakob disease could be transmitted. In 1960 Gemzell and Leif Wide presented a pregnancy test based on in-vitro hemagglutination inhibition, a first step away from in-vivo pregnancy testing. This test
I’ll Take a Sperm Test, to Go: First at-Home Male-Infertility Test Debuts [SEP] Takehiko Ogawa // Takehiko Ogawa In 2011, Ogawa and his colleagues succeeded to produce functional sperm from spermatogonial stem cells with the testis of mouse using an organ culture method, which was the first demonstration of mammalian. The result could change views about fertility and spermatogenesis and result in new diagnostics for male infertility as well as treatment and follow-up of patients with cancer. In 2014, his research group reported that a sample of frozen testicle has been used to produce live offspring in experiments on mice, and this breakthrough could have important implications for boys with cancer who become infertile due to
I’ll Take a Sperm Test, to Go: First at-Home Male-Infertility Test Debuts [SEP] Clearblue // three-step process using a dipstick and small tray. In 1988, Clearblue launched the first one-step pregnancy test with the invention of lateral flow technology. This one-step test gave a result in 3 minutes, subsequently reduced to a 1-minute result when Clearblue introduced the world’s first one-minute home pregnancy test in 1996. In 2003, Clearblue released the first digital pregnancy test to show the result in words ‘Pregnant’ or ‘Not Pregnant’ on a digital screen. In 2008, Clearblue released the Clearblue Digital Pregnancy Test with Conception Indicator. It was the first and only pregnancy test which showed the time since ovulation
I’ll Take a Sperm Test, to Go: First at-Home Male-Infertility Test Debuts [SEP] Pregnancy test // after fertilization of the egg, and in the urine 10. Obstetric ultrasonography may also be used to detect pregnancy. Obstetric ultrasonography was first practiced in the 1960s; the first home test kit for hCG was invented in 1968. The kits went on the market in the United States and Europe in the mid-1970s. At the beginning of the 1930s, Hillel Shapiro and Harry Zwarenstein, who were researchers at the University of Cape Town, discovered that if urine from a pregnant female was injected into the South African Xenopus toad and the toad ovulated, this indicated that the woman was pregnant.
I’ll Take a Sperm Test, to Go: First at-Home Male-Infertility Test Debuts [SEP] Paul J. Turek // the human sperm membrane. In this test, the sperm is exposed to a hypososmotic solution consisting of a 50:50 mixture of 150 mosmol fructose and 150 mosmol sodium citrate. The tails of normal sperm will swell when exposed to this solution, whereas damaged sperm with low motility will not swell measurably. Although a moving or motile sperm was traditionally required for use with this technique, some infertile men have genetically immotile sperm and are unable to take advantage of this technology to become fathers. In early research in this area, Turek tried to understand more about how sperm “viability” relates
I’ll Take a Sperm Test, to Go: First at-Home Male-Infertility Test Debuts [SEP] Male infertility // the scrotum can reveal a varicocele, but the impact of detecting and surgically correct a varicocele on sperm parameters or overall male fertility is debated. The volume of the semen sample, approximate number of total sperm cells, sperm motility/forward progression, and % of sperm with normal morphology are measured. This is the most common type of fertility testing. Semen deficiencies are often labeled as follows: There are various combinations of these as well, e.g. "Teratoasthenozoospermia", which is reduced sperm morphology and motility. Low sperm counts are often associated with decreased sperm motility and increased abnormal morphology, thus the terms "oligoasthenoteratozoospermia"
I’ll Take a Sperm Test, to Go: First at-Home Male-Infertility Test Debuts [SEP] Fertility testing // semen testing and genetic testing, as other factors such as impotence are obvious. Semen can be tested for sperm count, sperm motility, sperm morphology, pH, volume, fructose content, and acrosome activity. Checks are also made to identify undescended testicles and retrograde ejaculation, along with medical history, such as cancer treatment, radiation, drug use, etc. In some cases the hamster zona-free ovum test may also be used to diagnose fertility. Genetic testing and chromosomal analysis can rule out some other causes of male infertility, such as Klinefelter syndrome. A recent study identified epigenetic patterns in male sperm that may contribute to
I’ll Take a Sperm Test, to Go: First at-Home Male-Infertility Test Debuts [SEP] Paul J. Turek // to “motility." Subsequently, his team evolved the Hypoosmotic Swelling Test into a therapeutic tool that harmlessly and physiologically “pokes” a non-moving sperm to determine whether it is alive and therefore able to be used for ICSI. This technique was subsequently applied to men with genetically immotile sperm with success and this technique is now used routinely in many reproductive centers worldwide. Concerned about the risk of transmitting genetic male infertility or other genetic issues to offspring with the use of modern assisted reproductive techniques such as ICSI, Turek founded a unique, trademarked program called PROGENI (Program in the Genetics of
Nursing home with most virus deaths fined $10K a day. [SEP] Medicare (United States) // obstructive pulmonary disease and bronchiectasis. The highest penalties on hospitals are charged after knee or hip replacements, $265,000 per excess readmission. The goals are to encourage better post-hospital care and more referrals to hospice and end-of-life care in lieu of treatment, while the effect is also to reduce coverage in hospitals that treat poor and frail patients. The total penalties for above-average readmissions in 2013 are $280 million, for 7,000 excess readmissions, or $40,000 for each readmission above the US average rate. Part A fully covers brief stays for rehabilitation or convalescence in a skilled nursing facility and up to
Nursing home with most virus deaths fined $10K a day. [SEP] Eli Lilly and Company // uses, particularly for the treatment of dementia in the elderly. The $1.415 billion penalty included an $800 million civil settlement and a $515 million criminal fine. The US Justice Department said the criminal fine of $515 million was the largest ever in a healthcare case and the largest criminal fine for an individual corporation ever imposed in a US criminal prosecution of any kind. "That was a blemish for us," John C. Lechleiter, CEO of Lilly, told "The New York Times". "We don't ever want that to happen again. We put measures in place to assure that not only do
Nursing home with most virus deaths fined $10K a day. [SEP] Neponsit Beach Hospital // the Health and Hospitals Corporation endangered the lives of the 300 residents, and deceived them about plans to later return to the Neponsit Home. It also found that the hasty evacuation was unnecessary. Based on the report, the Health Care Financing Administration fined the HHC $3,050 per day for every day the former residents remained in sub-par housing, totaling $450,000. In December 1998, a portion of the complex, the Neponsit Adult Day Health Care which provided outpatient physical therapy, was relocated to the gymnasium of the Young Israel of Far Rockaway synagogue in Far Rockaway. A second court ruling on
Nursing home with most virus deaths fined $10K a day. [SEP] Oregon Indoor Clean Air Act // first response from the LPHA, they will take further action and make an unannounced visit of the site to determine if the act is being violated. If found to be in violation upon the inspection, penalties will be incurred. These penalties include fines that begin at an amount of $300 per day of each violation for the first violation, second of $400 per day, and the third and any subsequent violations $500 per day. In 1997 Oregon launched a statewide Tobacco Prevention and Education Program (TPEP) with the goal of reducing tobacco-related illnesses and deaths. TPEP was created immediately after
Nursing home with most virus deaths fined $10K a day. [SEP] Memorial Medical Center and Hurricane Katrina // $300 an hour. He concluded that eleven patients died from "acute drug toxicity," and that the deaths should be classified as homicides. Steven Karch was paid $18,500, and later testified before the Louisiana State Legislature that every case "should have been declared undetermined, because it is impossible to do a scientific analysis of a cadaver that has been in the sun for 10 days." Karch said after he reached this conclusion, the attorney general's office told him not to submit further reports. Foti had awarded a ninth contract, for $15,000, but an invoice for services was never submitted. The costs
Nursing home with most virus deaths fined $10K a day. [SEP] Jonathan's Law // to parents or guardians, followed by a written report within ten days. Requires facility directors to meet with parents and/or guardians to discuss reported incidents. Increases fines for noncompliance to $1,000 per day, and up to $15,000 per violation. OMRDD officials cautioned the New York legislature about passing Jonathan's Law without sufficient consideration, citing privacy concerns, adding that rushing their decision could be detrimental, asserting that whistleblowers will be less likely to come forward if their accusations become public. According to advocates supporting Jonathan's Law, everyone deserves safety and quality medical care. They have argued that parents of individuals deemed
Nursing home with most virus deaths fined $10K a day. [SEP] Lovelace Respiratory Research Institute // website: Between March 2008 and April 2009 the U.S. Department of Agriculture (DOA) found LRRI violated the Animal Welfare Act on 9 occasions, including the death of a monkey, and escape of another monkey. In 2011, LRRI was fined close to $22,000, and in 2015, federal inspectors reported that it investigated because an untrained technician’s actions resulted in the death of a research dog. From August 2012 to March 2014, the DOA found that five monkeys and four rabbits died at LRRI, violating the federal Animal Welfare Act six times. In 2012, Lovelace reduced the number of monkeys from 951
Nursing home with most virus deaths fined $10K a day. [SEP] California Department of Public Health // CDPH imposed two fines totaling more than $400,000 against Kaiser Permanente hospital in Bellflower, CA, for failing to prevent unauthorized access to confidential patient information. The first fine was in May, of $250,000. It was the largest under a state law enacted following widely publicized violations of privacy involving celebrities, including Farrah Fawcett, Britney Spears and California First Lady Maria Shriver. A second fine, of $187,500, was part of an investigation into employees improperly accessing the medical records of the so-called "Octomom" Nadya Suleman and her children. CDPH uses Twitter and Facebook to provide public health information. The Office of
Nursing home with most virus deaths fined $10K a day. [SEP] John Peter Smith Hospital // $3,000 per day. When her husband asked that life support be removed JPS officials cited a state law requiring that a pregnant woman remain on life support - regardless of her end-of-life wishes - until the fetus is viable, usually at 24 to 26 weeks. Officials feared that if they turn off the machines, the Tarrant County District Attorney Joe Shannon Jr.'s office would charge them with murder of the fetus. The assistant district attorney insisted that the state had a compelling interest in protecting a fetus, pointing to a section of the Texas Penal Code that stated that a
Nursing home with most virus deaths fined $10K a day. [SEP] Medical Waste Tracking Act // ranged based on the level of violation, whether it was done with intention, and if such acts endangered the lives of other individuals. Minor violations of compliance orders would have resulted in a fine of $25,000 per day of "continued noncompliance." Criminal penalties against those knowingly and intentionally violating the regulations of the MWTA may face two years of imprisonment or a $50,000 fine while those guilty of knowingly endangering the life of another through noncompliance may face upwards of fifteen years imprisonment and a $1,000,000 fine. Through the information gathered during the promulgation of regulations for the MWTA, over
The Cutting Edge: Robotic Surgery, Today! [SEP] Robot-assisted surgery // smoother, feedback-controlled motions than could be achieved by a human hand. The main object of such smart instruments is to reduce or eliminate the tissue trauma traditionally associated with open surgery without requiring more than a few minutes' training on the part of surgeons. This approach seeks to improve open surgeries, particularly cardio-thoracic, that have so far not benefited from minimally-invasive techniques. Robotic surgery has been criticized for its expense, by one estimate costing $1,500 to $2000 more per patient. Major advances aided by surgical robots have been remote surgery, minimally invasive surgery and unmanned surgery. Due to robotic use,
The Cutting Edge: Robotic Surgery, Today! [SEP] Robot-assisted surgery // hernia repair, kasai portoenterostomy, congenital diaphragmatic hernia repair, and others. Robotic devices started to be used in minimally invasive spine surgery starting in the mid-2000s. As of 2014, there were too few randomized clinical trials to allow judgements as to whether robotic spine surgery is more or less safe than other approaches. Transplant surgery (organ transplantation) has been considered as highly technically demanding and virtually unobtainable by means of conventional laparoscopy. For many years, transplant patients were unable to benefit from the advantages of minimally invasive surgery. The development of robotic technology and its associated high resolution capabilities, three dimensional
The Cutting Edge: Robotic Surgery, Today! [SEP] Robot-assisted surgery // 2000, the first robot-assisted laparoscopic radical prostatectomy was performed. Breast Surgery Robotic breast surgery involves using the robot to assist in performing nipple-sparing mastectomy and breast reconstruction. In 2015, a group of surgeons led by Dr. Antonio Toesca, in Milan, Italy demonstrated the feasibility and safety of robotic nipple-sparing mastectomy and robotic breast reconstruction. The Italian surgeons published their results in their first 29 consecutive patients. In this report, all patients had robotic mastectomy and reconstruction done through a 3 cm extra-mammary incision, hidden by the arm. Thereafter, a surgeon, Dr. Benjamin Sarfati, in Paris began performing robotic mastectomy and
The Cutting Edge: Robotic Surgery, Today! [SEP] Pier Cristoforo Giulianotti // he took the challenge with the introduction of the new robotic technology in 2000. In the last eight years he has developed the largest program worldwide for robotic surgery. He has performed over 2100 minimally invasive surgeries of which more than 914 have been robotic procedures. Dr. Giulianotti has been the first in the world to perform with robotic technology complex procedures such as formal hepatic resection, lung resection and pancreatico-duodenectomy. Dr. Giulianotti is currently considered the foremost robotic surgeon worldwide. In April 2008, Dr. Giulianotti and his team at The University of Illinois Medical Center at Chicago have inaugurated
The Cutting Edge: Robotic Surgery, Today! [SEP] Robot-assisted surgery // the University of Chicago Comer Children's Hospital performed the first robotic pediatric neurogenic bladder reconstruction. On 12 May 2008, the first image-guided MR-compatible robotic neurosurgical procedure was performed at University of Calgary by Dr. Garnette Sutherland using the NeuroArm. In June 2008, the German Aerospace Centre (DLR) presented a robotic system for minimally invasive surgery, the MiroSurge. In September 2010, the Eindhoven University of Technology announced the development of the Sofie surgical system, the first surgical robot to employ force feedback. In September 2010, the first robotic operation at the femoral vasculature was performed at the University Medical Centre Ljubljana
The Cutting Edge: Robotic Surgery, Today! [SEP] Pier Cristoforo Giulianotti // the Advanced Robotic Research and Training Laboratory, the only training center in the Midwest designed for robotic training. In 2009, Dr. Giulianotti was named the inaugural president of the Clinical robotic surgery association. Pier Cristoforo Giulianotti Dr. Pier Cristoforo Giulianotti (born July 6, 1953 in Filattiera) is an Italian surgeon. He is a Professor of Surgery and Chief of The Division of General, Minimally Invasive, and Robotic Surgery at the University of Illinois at Chicago. He received his medical degree from the foremost Italian university, “Normale” of Pisa. Besides a formal General Surgery Residency, he has completed two additional Residencies
The Cutting Edge: Robotic Surgery, Today! [SEP] Robot-assisted surgery // the first time in Vancouver in 1983. Intimately involved were biomedical engineer Dr. James McEwen, Geof Auchinleck, a UBC engineering physics grad, and Dr. Brian Day as well as a team of engineering students. The robot was used in an orthopaedic surgical procedure on 12 March 1984, at the UBC Hospital in Vancouver. Over 60 arthroscopic surgical procedures were performed in the first 12 months, and a 1985 National Geographic video on industrial robots, "The Robotics Revolution", featured the device. Other related robotic devices developed at the same time included a surgical scrub nurse robot, which handed operative instruments on
The Cutting Edge: Robotic Surgery, Today! [SEP] Robot-assisted surgery // to replace the previous method of carving out a femur for an implant, the use of a mallet and broach/rasp. Further development of robotic systems was carried out by SRI International and Intuitive Surgical with the introduction of the da Vinci Surgical System and Computer Motion with the "AESOP" and the ZEUS robotic surgical system. The first robotic surgery took place at The Ohio State University Medical Center in Columbus, Ohio under the direction of Robert E. Michler. Examples of using ZEUS include a fallopian tube reconnection in July 1998, a "beating heart" coronary artery bypass graft in October 1999,
The Cutting Edge: Robotic Surgery, Today! [SEP] Remote surgery // that, telesurgery is something that is possible and generally safe for large areas within the United States. As the techniques of expert surgeons are studied and stored in special computer systems, robots might one day be able to perform surgeries with little or no human input. Carlo Pappone, an Italian surgeon, has developed a software program that uses data collected from several surgeons and thousands of operations to perform the surgery without human intervention. This could one day make expensive, complicated surgeries much more widely available, even to patients in regions which have traditionally lacked proper medical facilities. The ability
The Cutting Edge: Robotic Surgery, Today! [SEP] Computer-assisted surgery // of an instrument. The feedback the system provides of the instrument location is particularly useful in situations where the surgeon cannot actually see the tip of the instrument, such as in minimally invasive surgeries. Robotic surgery is a term used for correlated actions of a surgeon and a surgical robot (that has been programmed to carry out certain actions during the preoperative planning procedure). A surgical robot is a mechanical device (generally looking like a robotic arm) that is computer-controlled. Robotic surgery can be divided into three types, depending on the degree of surgeon interaction during the procedure: supervisory-controlled, telesurgical,
Researchers identify CTE biomarker that may lead to diagnosis while alive [SEP] Chronic traumatic encephalopathy // be definitively diagnosed by direct tissue examination after death, including full and immunohistochemical brain analyses. The lack of "in vivo" techniques to show distinct biomarkers for CTE is the reason CTE cannot currently be diagnosed while a person is alive. The only known diagnosis for CTE occurs by studying the brain tissue after death. Concussions are non-structural injuries and do not result in brain bleeding, which is why most concussions cannot be seen on routine neuroimaging tests such as CT or MRI. Acute concussion symptoms (those that occur shortly after an injury) should not be confused with CTE. Differentiating between
Researchers identify CTE biomarker that may lead to diagnosis while alive [SEP] Biomarker (medicine) // biomarker research. Coronary angiography, an invasive procedure requiring catheterization, has long been the gold standard for diagnosing arterial stenosis, but scientists and doctors hope to develop noninvasive techniques. Many believe that cardiac computed tomography (CT) has great potential in this area, but researchers are still attempting to overcome problems related to “calcium blooming,” a phenomenon in which calcium deposits interfere with image resolution. Other intravascular imaging techniques involving magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), optical coherence tomography (OCT), and near infrared spectroscopy are also being investigated. Another new imaging biomarker involves radiolabeled fludeoxyglucose. Positron emission tomography (PET) can be used to measure
Researchers identify CTE biomarker that may lead to diagnosis while alive [SEP] Chronic traumatic encephalopathy // normal blood-brain barrier, there is an extended period of time between the initial events (head hits) and the development of any signs or symptoms. Nevertheless, autoimmune changes in blood of players may consist the earliest measurable event predicting CTE. Robert A. Stern, one of the scientists at the Boston University CTE Center, said in 2015 that "he expected a test to be developed within a decade that will be able to diagnose C.T.E. in living people". Investigators have demonstrated that immobilizing the head during a blast exposure prevented the learning and memory deficits associated with CTE that occurred when the
Researchers identify CTE biomarker that may lead to diagnosis while alive [SEP] Barry Festoff // pHLOGISTIX, a company that focuses on blood-based biomarkers as companion diagnostics for neurotrauma and neurodegenerative diseases such as chronic traumatic encephalopathy (CTE), Alzheimer’s disease (AD), frontotemporal dementia (FTD), Parkinson’s disease (PD) and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) in order to harness neuroinflammation and improve functional outcomes following trauma to the central nervous system (CNS). The ultimate goal is to provide a validated panel of nucleic acid and protein biomarkers in a novel analytic approach to allow the identification of patients with CTE and AD before symptoms develop, i.e., preclinical, while still at the stage of mild cognitive impairment, especially after early
Researchers identify CTE biomarker that may lead to diagnosis while alive [SEP] Concussions in American football // living players, are associated with Alzheimer's disease. Previously, this type of exam could only be performed with an autopsy. Scientists at UCLA created a chemical marker that binds to the abnormal proteins and they are able to view this with Positron Emission Tomography (PET) scan. Researcher at UCLA, Gary Small explains, "Providing a non-invasive method for early detection is a critical first step in developing interventions to prevent symptom onset and progression in CTE". Post-Concussive Symptoms (PCS) is an area of recovery that is often not discussed. New evidence suggest that new recovery protocols have been recommended and designed to
Researchers identify CTE biomarker that may lead to diagnosis while alive [SEP] Florbetaben (18F) // in practice, many individuals are misdiagnosed or remain even undiagnosed. The deposition of β-amyloid is considered as one hallmark in the pathogenesis of AD, and most likely begins years before the onset of detectable cognitive symptoms. Clinical testing using neuropsychology or memory examinations is the standard tool to diagnose AD as clinically possible or probable. Confirmation of the clinical diagnosis requires the identification of β-amyloid plaques in the brain. Until recently, this was only possible after death, in postmortem histopathology. The need of diagnosis confirmation during life has led to the development and incorporation of biomarkers, such as cerebrospinal fluid
Researchers identify CTE biomarker that may lead to diagnosis while alive [SEP] Renal angina // and prognosis of AKI. The most frequently studied new biomarkers include Cystatin C (CysC), neutrophil gelatinase associated lipocalin (NGAL), interleukin-18, liver-fatty acid binding protein (l-FABP), and kidney injury molecule-1 (KIM-1). Children following cardiopulmonary bypass are often used to derive biomarker performance and validate optimal cut-off values given a known timing and duration of insult, relative homogeneity, and freedom from co-morbidities. Unfortunately, when these and other biomarkers are applied to a more heterogeneous patient population (the general intensive care unit, non-critically ill patients, patients in the emergency department), they demonstrate less robust predictive performance. The inability to detect AKI in the
Researchers identify CTE biomarker that may lead to diagnosis while alive [SEP] Chronic traumatic encephalopathy // to tau. It is being tested in several clinical trials. A putative biomarker for CTE is the presence in serum of autoantibodies against the brain. The autoantibodies were detected in football players who experienced a large number of head hits but no concussions, suggesting that even sub-concussive episodes may be damaging to the brain. The autoantibodies may enter the brain by means of a disrupted blood-brain barrier, and attack neuronal cells which are normally protected from an immune onslaught. Given the large numbers of neurons present in the brain (86 billion), and considering the poor penetration of antibodies across a
Researchers identify CTE biomarker that may lead to diagnosis while alive [SEP] Chronic traumatic encephalopathy // prolonged post-concussion syndrome (PCS, where symptoms begin shortly after a concussion and last for weeks, months, and sometimes even years) and CTE symptoms can be difficult. Research studies are currently examining whether neuroimaging can detect subtle changes in axonal integrity and structural lesions that can occur in CTE. Recently, more progress in in-vivo diagnostic techniques for CTE has been made, using DTI, fMRI, MRI, and MRS imaging; however, more research needs to be done before any such techniques can be validated. PET tracers that bind specifically to tau protein are desired to aid diagnosis of CTE in living individuals. One
Researchers identify CTE biomarker that may lead to diagnosis while alive [SEP] Lead time bias // prolong the life of someone but just determine the propensity of the person to a disease or medical condition such as by DNA testing. No additional life span has been gained and the patient may even be subject to added anxiety as the patient must live for longer with knowledge of the disease. For example, the genetic disorder Huntington's disease is diagnosed when symptoms appear at around 50, and the person dies at around 65. The typical patient, therefore, lives about 15 years after diagnosis. A genetic test at birth makes it possible to diagnose this disorder earlier. If this
The Village of Deerfield, Illinois, has approved an ordinance banning the possession of assault weapons and high-capacity magazines. [SEP] Deerfield, Illinois // and Western Springs, Illinois. In 2015, a plan to rezone a parcel of land originally zoned for single-family homes, in order to allow the construction of a 48-unit affordable apartment building complex, was proposed. Some Deerfield residents were opposed to the proposition. In 2018, The Village Board of Trustees unanimously approved a ban on certain types of assault weapons and high-capacity magazines, amending a 2013 ordinance that regulated the storage of those items. This is despite an Illinois State Preemption on any further municipal firearms restrictions, and the fact that amendments to city ordinances have to pass said amendments as
The Village of Deerfield, Illinois, has approved an ordinance banning the possession of assault weapons and high-capacity magazines. [SEP] Gun laws in Illinois // to hear the case of "Friedman v. Highland Park", a challenge to that city's assault weapons ban. Deerfield had passed an ordinance in 2013 that regulated the storage and transportation of assault weapons and high capacity magazines; in April 2018 the ordinance was amended to ban possession. In June 2018 the law was blocked from going into effect by a Lake County Circuit Court judge who held that the ordinance violates a state preemption statute. Other municipalities have also enacted various firearm restrictions. Formerly some Illinois municipalities had laws restricting the possession of handguns. By the late 1980s, several Illinois
The Village of Deerfield, Illinois, has approved an ordinance banning the possession of assault weapons and high-capacity magazines. [SEP] Assault weapons legislation in the United States // have laws that either prohibit or regulate the possession of firearms that they define as assault weapons. These include the city of Chicago and Cook County. On December 7, 2015, the Supreme Court of the United States refused to grant a writ of certiorari to take up a challenge brought against a decision by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit which had upheld a local law banning assault weapons and large-capacity magazines in the Chicago suburb of Highland Park, Illinois. In refusing to hear the case, the Supreme Court allowed the ruling to stand and the ban
The Village of Deerfield, Illinois, has approved an ordinance banning the possession of assault weapons and high-capacity magazines. [SEP] Deerfield, Illinois // separate ordinances. At least one lawsuit is challenging the Ordinance that bypasses the US Constitution. However, the ban was blocked by Lake County Circuit Court Judge Luis Berrones until the two lawsuits challenging the ban are heard. One of the lawsuits is based on a state preemption statute regarding local bans enacted after 2013. Located in front of Kipling Elementary School is the Deerfield Historic Village, founded and maintained by the Deerfield Area Historical Society, this outdoor museum consists of five historic buildings and includes the headquarters for the Deerfield Historical Society. The Historic Village includes the Caspar Ott House,
The Village of Deerfield, Illinois, has approved an ordinance banning the possession of assault weapons and high-capacity magazines. [SEP] Gun laws in Illinois // a tax on the sale of ammunition — five cents per round for centerfire ammunition and one cent per round for rimfire ammunition. The possession of firearms that have been variously defined as assault weapons is also illegal in Lincolnwood, Skokie, Evanston, Highland Park, North Chicago, Melrose Park, Riverdale, Dolton, Hazel Crest, Homewood, and the part of Buffalo Grove that's in Cook County. The storage or transportation of assault weapons is restricted in Morton Grove, Winnetka, Country Club Hills, and University Park. Sales and transfers of assault weapons are prohibited in Niles. In December 2015 the U.S. Supreme Court declined
The Village of Deerfield, Illinois, has approved an ordinance banning the possession of assault weapons and high-capacity magazines. [SEP] Deerfield, Illinois // multi-family housing. As of that year little of the remaining land was available for further residential development. On December 19, 2005, the village board passed a strict anti-smoking ordinance. The law bans smoking in all public places, including businesses, bars, restaurants, parks, parade routes, public assemblies, and within from any of the above. In November 2007, BusinessWeek.com listed Deerfield third in a list of the 50 best places to raise children. The rankings were based on five factors: school test scores, cost of living, recreational and cultural activities, number of schools and risk of crime. Deerfield ranked behind Groesbeck, Ohio,
The Village of Deerfield, Illinois, has approved an ordinance banning the possession of assault weapons and high-capacity magazines. [SEP] Gun laws in Illinois // struck a previous ban on the transfer of ammunition. On January 18, 2017, a federal appeals court ruled that the city's revised gun shop law was unconstitutional. Cook County has banned the possession of certain semi-automatic firearms that it has defined as assault weapons. Residents must report to the county sheriff within 48 hours any firearms that are stolen, lost, destroyed, or sold or otherwise transferred. The sheriff may share this information with other law enforcement agencies. Licensed firearms dealers must provide information to the county regarding purchasers and the guns they purchase, and receive approval before conducting sales. An
The Village of Deerfield, Illinois, has approved an ordinance banning the possession of assault weapons and high-capacity magazines. [SEP] Assault weapons legislation in the United States // 15, 2013 and has a capacity of, or can be readily restored or converted to accept more than seven rounds of ammunition." Some local governments have laws that ban or restrict the possession of assault weapons. A Washington, D.C. law banning the possession of assault weapons was upheld by a federal appeals court in 2011. The law that set up Illinois' concealed carry system in 2013 also established state preemption for certain areas of gun law, including restrictions on assault weapons. Laws passed before July 20, 2013 are grandfathered in, and a number of local governments in the Chicago area
The Village of Deerfield, Illinois, has approved an ordinance banning the possession of assault weapons and high-capacity magazines. [SEP] Gun laws in Illinois // not restrict the sale or possession of firearms that have been defined as assault weapons, or of magazines that can hold more than a certain number of rounds of ammunition, but some local jurisdictions do restrict them. Illinois has state preemption for certain areas of gun law, which overrides the home rule guideline in those cases. Some local governments have enacted ordinances that are more restrictive than those of the state in areas not covered by state preemption. <onlyinclude> </onlyinclude> To legally possess or purchase firearms or ammunition, Illinois residents must have a Firearm Owner's Identification (FOID) card, which is
The Village of Deerfield, Illinois, has approved an ordinance banning the possession of assault weapons and high-capacity magazines. [SEP] Morton Grove, Illinois // themselves as belonging to two or more races). In 1981, Morton Grove became the first town in America to prohibit the possession of handguns. Victor Quilici, a local lawyer, sued the city (Quilici v. Morton Grove). The federal district court as well as the Appellate Court ruled the Morton Grove ordinance to be constitutional, thus upholding the gun ban. The U.S. Supreme Court declined to hear the case, letting the lower court decision stand. The ban stood as village code 6-2-3. However, in light of the U.S. Supreme Court's 2008 opinion in "District of Columbia v. Heller", it appeared likely
“Only 6% of the people actually died from COVID.” The others “died from other reasons.” [SEP] James Jurin // of variolation with those from contracting the disease naturally. He studied mortality statistics for London for the fourteen years prior to 1723 and concluded that one fourteenth of the population had died from smallpox, up to 40 percent during epidemics. He advertised in the "Proceedings of the Royal Society" for readers to report their personal and professional experiences and received over sixty replies, most from other physicians or surgeons but most significantly from Thomas Nettleton who reported his own calculations from his experience in several communities in Yorkshire. Jurin's analysis concluded that the probability of death from variolation was roughly
“Only 6% of the people actually died from COVID.” The others “died from other reasons.” [SEP] Stephen Jay Gould // Zoology. After a difficult two-year recovery, Gould published a column for "Discover" magazine titled "The Median Isn't the Message", which discusses his reaction to discovering that, "mesothelioma is incurable, with a median mortality of only eight months after discovery." In his essay he describes the actual significance behind this fact, and his relief upon recognizing that statistical averages are useful abstractions, and by themselves do not encompass "our actual world of variation, shadings, and continua." The median is the halfway point, which means that 50% of people will die before eight months. However the other half may live significantly longer
“Only 6% of the people actually died from COVID.” The others “died from other reasons.” [SEP] Dead Space (comics) // that apparently right now no one can figure it out. At Carthusia's office, Neumann once again confronts the Colony Manager, demanding they abort the operation. Carthusia once again refuses with the same argument as before. Neumann then shows Carthusia a list of all the deaths since the colony started: in the past two and a half years, only 3 deaths had occurred (all working accidents). After the Marker was found, 65 deaths. Carthusia dismissively states that 52 of those were suicides only for Neumann to once again plead for Carthusia to stop this before it's too late. Carthusia replies it's
“Only 6% of the people actually died from COVID.” The others “died from other reasons.” [SEP] Reaver (Firefly) // and moving. They simply lay down where they were and allowed themselves to die. The remaining 0.1% of the planet's 30 million people (approximately 30,000 total) had the opposite reaction to the Pax, becoming mindlessly violent and extremely aggressive. In fact, the scientist is violently killed by one of these survivors, the original Reavers, while recording the message. Following the events of Miranda, the Alliance sealed all records regarding the event and deemed the world unsuitable for colonization. When Reavers began attacking outer colonies, only a few officials within the Alliance knew the real cause. This changes, however, when the
“Only 6% of the people actually died from COVID.” The others “died from other reasons.” [SEP] Arnold Paole // the whole body. They then disinterred Paole's four supposed victims and performed the same procedure, to prevent them from becoming vampires as well. About five years later, in the winter of 1731, a new epidemic occurred, with more than ten people dying within several weeks, some of them in just two or three days without any previous illness and others after 3 days of languishing. The numbers and the age of the deceased vary somewhat between the two main sources. Glaser's report on the case states that by 12 December, 13 people had died in the course of six weeks.
“Only 6% of the people actually died from COVID.” The others “died from other reasons.” [SEP] Lancet surveys of Iraq War casualties // and other chronic diseases. However, after the invasion, violence was recorded as the primary cause of death and was mainly attributed to coalition forces—with about 95 percent of those deaths caused by bombs or fire from helicopter gunships. Some criticisms have focused on the relatively broad 95% confidence intervals (CI95), resulting from the difficulty and scarcity of reliable sources. Lila Guterman, after writing a long article in January 2005 in "The Chronicle of Higher Education", wrote a short article in the "Columbia Journalism Review" that stated: "I called about ten biostatisticians and mortality experts. Not one of them took issue
“Only 6% of the people actually died from COVID.” The others “died from other reasons.” [SEP] Gay, Straight, and the Reason Why // died from. LeVay writes that there was no obvious pathology in the specimens he studied and that he was subsequently able to study a gay man who died of factors unrelated to AIDS and found that his INAH 3 was the same size as those of the gay men in his study. LeVay notes that one attempt has been made to replicate his study. The psychiatrist and neuroscientist William Byne found a difference in INAH 3 size between gay and straight men, but the difference was not quite statistically significant by the criteria Byne used. LeVay concludes that homosexuality is,
“Only 6% of the people actually died from COVID.” The others “died from other reasons.” [SEP] Maiztegui National Human Viral Disease Institute // 1,000 people annually and claimed up to a 30% mortality rate in its early years. One of its researchers, Dr. Julio Isidro Maiztegui, developed breakthrough in the treatment of the disease in 1971 when he devised the introduction of blood plasma from recovered patients in saline solution to those whose exposure had taken place under eight days earlier. The treatment, which reduced motality rates from 30% to around 1% of those infected, led to greater support for the work at CEMIC, and in 1978, the National Institute of Hemorrhagic Viruses (INVH) was established in Pergamino, with Dr. Maiztegui as its
“Only 6% of the people actually died from COVID.” The others “died from other reasons.” [SEP] Les Roberts (epidemiologist) // were much lower. In opposition to the study's claims, an official Ministerial Statement from the United Kingdom Parliament stated that "the Government do not accept its[The Lancet study's] central conclusion", noting that the Iraq Ministry of Health figures, which were collected from daily hospital reports, showed 3,853 civilian deaths and 15,517 injuries between April 5, 2004 and October 5, 2004. In October 2006 Roberts instigated a second study, Mortality after the 2003 invasion of Iraq: a cross-sectional cluster sample survey, using similar methods and increasing the number of households surveyed. The study was also published in The Lancet, and reported:
“Only 6% of the people actually died from COVID.” The others “died from other reasons.” [SEP] Gianna Talone // fear but must be prepared, primarily spiritually. After awhile, you will see a time when there is another body in orbit around your solar system, coming between Earth and the Sun and leading to tremendous devastation. Approximately 60-70% of the world’s population, as you know it, will cease. Of those who survive, 60% of them could die of disease and starvation." The Phoenix, AZ Bishop Thomas J. Obrien allowed these events to continue and did not approve or condemn them, after his 1990s investigations found nothing wrong. In many cases, almost the entire church congregations at St. Maria Goretti Church
Facebook post Says a warning label on a box of disposable masks shows that they are ineffective at protecting against the spread of COVID-19. [SEP] Surgical mask // bacteria or virus particles and are less effective than respirators, which are designed for this purpose. Simple surgical masks protect wearers from being splashed in the mouth with body fluids, and prevent transmission of body fluids from the wearer to others, e.g. the patient. They also remind wearers not to touch their mouth or nose, which could otherwise transfer viruses and bacteria after having touched a contaminated surface (fomite). They can also reduce the spread of infectious liquid droplets (carrying bacteria or viruses) that are created when the wearer coughs or sneezes. There is no clear evidence that disposable face
Facebook post Says a warning label on a box of disposable masks shows that they are ineffective at protecting against the spread of COVID-19. [SEP] Lymantria dispar multicapsid nuclear polyhedrosis virus // birds, and fish at field doses. While it is non-toxic to warm-blooded animals, impurities may cause eye irritation. The appearance is listed as, "dried insect body parts and virus polyhedral" and has a musty odor. For handlers and mixers, normal clothes, a medical face mask and goggles are recommended. In case of skin contact, wash with soap and water. If in eyes, flush with water. If irritation persists, seek medical attention. LdMNPV has undergone numerous tests in regards to toxicity and mortality, all of which show no adverse effects except varying irritation for ocular doses administered to the eyes of
Facebook post Says a warning label on a box of disposable masks shows that they are ineffective at protecting against the spread of COVID-19. [SEP] Legionella longbeachae // mask covering the nose and mouth to reduce the risk of inhaling the dust is needed, especially for those at high risk from infection. Studies advocate the introduction of an industry standard that ensures the use of face masks when handling potting mix and attaching masks and warning labels to potting mix bags sold to the public. Compost packaging in Australia has an "L. longbeachae" warning label. The New South Wales state government recommends that people reduce exposure to potting mix dust by following the manufacturers' warning present on potting mix labels, including: Early symptoms include fever, chills, headache, shortness
Facebook post Says a warning label on a box of disposable masks shows that they are ineffective at protecting against the spread of COVID-19. [SEP] Cellulose acetate film // Enclosures that are breathable or that contain an acid absorbent are instrumental in reducing the rate of decay due to vinegar syndrome. Sealed metal containers can trap the decay products released by the film, promoting the spread of vinegar syndrome. During early stages of decay, the film content can be rescued by transferring it to new film stock. Once the film becomes brittle it cannot be copied in its original quality in sight and sound. Because the gelatin emulsion usually stays intact during the degradation process, it is possible to save the image on sheet film using solvents to dissolve
Facebook post Says a warning label on a box of disposable masks shows that they are ineffective at protecting against the spread of COVID-19. [SEP] Lymantria dispar multicapsid nuclear polyhedrosis virus // to the reason for the reaction. Three studies on rabbits found no irritation, toxicity or mortality with dermal application. Three studies with application to the eye found no significant irritation. Two studies found evidence of irritation in ocular tests. A third study using LdMNPV powder in a 50 mg dose was found to be a moderate eye irritant; a test rabbit died during this study, but its death was found not to be of LdMNPV, the findings noted the presence of diarrhea. Irritation was reported in a study using 'LDP 53 air dried sample' lasting from 4 to 14 days;
Facebook post Says a warning label on a box of disposable masks shows that they are ineffective at protecting against the spread of COVID-19. [SEP] Polyvinyl chloride // items that can be put in the mouth even though the EU scientific risk assessment concluded that its use in toys does not pose a risk to human health or the environment. The rigorous EU risk assessments, which include a high degree of conservatism and built-in safety factors, have been carried out under the strict supervision of the European Commission and provide a clear scientific evaluation on which to judge whether or not a particular substance can be safely used. The FDA Paper titled "Safety Assessment of Di(2-ethylhexyl)phthalate (DEHP)Released from PVC Medical Devices" states that [3.2.1.3] Critically ill or injured
Facebook post Says a warning label on a box of disposable masks shows that they are ineffective at protecting against the spread of COVID-19. [SEP] Divisoria // by the EcoWaste involved imitation lipstick, which also contains harmful concentrations of lead. At minimum, the screened products contained 55 parts per million (ppm), 35 ppm above from the maximum limit set by Asean Cosmetic Directive. Two samples contained traces of mercury. Even Senator De Lima advocated against this phenomenon in her announcement, "This is a threat to public health. It’s alarming that people who are looking for low-cost alternatives to the popular and expensive brands can easily be fooled into buying the cheap products without knowing that these goods can endanger their life." The traffic problem in Divisoria is
Facebook post Says a warning label on a box of disposable masks shows that they are ineffective at protecting against the spread of COVID-19. [SEP] 2002–2003 SARS outbreak among healthcare workers // and fluid from escaping into the air—keeping both a patient and a HCW's bacteria and fluid to themselves. Less intentionally but also important, these masks discourage patients and HCWs from putting their fingers or hands in contact with the nose and mouth, which could usually allow bacteria to spread from the hand to these areas. Contrary to popular belief, some types of masks do little to prevent fluid and bacteria from coming in contact with the wearer of the mask, but they can still help prevent airborne infection. Therefore, it is important that both the patient and the HCW wear
Facebook post Says a warning label on a box of disposable masks shows that they are ineffective at protecting against the spread of COVID-19. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic // persons, but it is unknown whether they prevent H1N1 flu infection. Yukihiro Nishiyama, professor of virology at Nagoya University's School of Medicine, commented that the masks are "better than nothing, but it's hard to completely block out an airborne virus since it can easily slip through the gaps". According to mask manufacturer 3M, masks will filter out particles in industrial settings, but "there are no established exposure limits for biological agents such as swine flu virus". However, despite the lack of evidence of effectiveness, the use of such masks is common in Asia. They are particularly popular in Japan, where
Facebook post Says a warning label on a box of disposable masks shows that they are ineffective at protecting against the spread of COVID-19. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic in the United Kingdom // that patient to surgery staff and other patients. I expect the Department of Health will issue guidance on use of face-masks if we move into a pandemic phase." Masks may not protect the wearer from inhalation of the virus, but might protect other people from picking up the virus from the wearer. Professor John Oxford, a virologist at leading London hospital, The Barts and the London, said: "Really, there is very little evidence that masks actually offer much protection against flu." It was reported that the UK government was urgently seeking to acquire more face-masks. The advice given by authorities
New Blood Test May Rule Out Heart Attacks More Quickly [SEP] Myocardial infarction // well as a change over time, are useful in measuring and diagnosing or excluding myocardial infarctions, and the diagnostic accuracy of troponin testing is improving over time. One high-sensitivity cardiac troponin is able to rule out a heart attack as long as the ECG is normal. Other tests, such as CK-MB or myoglobin, are discouraged. CK-MB is not as specific as troponins for acute myocardial injury, and may be elevated with past cardiac surgery, inflammation or electrical cardioversion; it rises within 4–8 hours and returns to normal within 2–3 days. Copeptin may be useful to rule out MI rapidly when
New Blood Test May Rule Out Heart Attacks More Quickly [SEP] Cardiac marker // an ECG are more appropriate in the acute situation. However, in 2010, research at the Baylor College of Medicine revealed that, using diagnostic nanochips and a swab of the cheek, cardiac biomarker readings from saliva can, with the ECG readings, determine within minutes whether someone is likely to have had a heart attack. on GPBB Cardiac marker Cardiac markers are biomarkers measured to evaluate heart function. They are often discussed in the context of myocardial infarction, but other conditions can lead to an elevation in cardiac marker level. Most of the early markers identified were enzymes, and as a result,
New Blood Test May Rule Out Heart Attacks More Quickly [SEP] Myocardial infarction diagnosis // of MI and remain elevated for up to 2 weeks, have nearly complete tissue specificity and are now the preferred markers for assessing myocardial damage. Heart-type fatty acid binding protein is another marker, used in some home test kits. Elevated troponins in the setting of chest pain may accurately predict a high likelihood of a myocardial infarction in the near future. New markers such as glycogen phosphorylase isoenzyme BB are under investigation. The diagnosis of myocardial infarction requires two out of three components (history, ECG, and enzymes). When damage to the heart occurs, levels of cardiac markers rise over time,
New Blood Test May Rule Out Heart Attacks More Quickly [SEP] Coronary ischemia // diabetes,obesity, inactive lifestyle and high cholesterol. If there is a suspicion that one may have coronary ischemia, a doctor will administer a series of tests to confirm the diagnosis.. The most common tests today are an electrocardiogram, an exercise stress test, and a coronary angiography. The doctor will also ask a series of questions to determine the medical history of the patient, including past incidences of chest pain or shortness of breath. He may also inquire about the duration of symptoms, how often they occur and any measures taken in attempts to relieve them. When a doctor performs an electrocardiogram
New Blood Test May Rule Out Heart Attacks More Quickly [SEP] Myocardial infarction diagnosis // which is why blood tests for them are taken over a 24-hour period. Because these enzyme levels are not elevated immediately following a heart attack, patients presenting with chest pain are generally treated with the assumption that a myocardial infarction has occurred and then evaluated for a more precise diagnosis. In difficult cases or in situations where intervention to restore blood flow is appropriate, coronary angiography can be performed. A catheter is inserted into an artery (usually the femoral artery) and pushed to the vessels supplying the heart. A radio-opaque dye is administered through the catheter and a sequence of
New Blood Test May Rule Out Heart Attacks More Quickly [SEP] Heart // because they are highly specific for cardiac disease. Testing for the MB form of creatine kinase provides information about the heart's blood supply, but is used less frequently because it is less specific and sensitive. Other blood tests are often taken to help understand a person's general health and risk factors that may contribute to heart disease. These often include a full blood count investigating for anaemia, and basic metabolic panel that may reveal any disturbances in electrolytes. A coagulation screen is often required to ensure that the right level of anticoagulation is given. Fasting lipids and fasting blood glucose
New Blood Test May Rule Out Heart Attacks More Quickly [SEP] Atherosclerosis // symptom of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease is a heart attack or sudden cardiac death (death within one hour of onset of the symptom). Cardiac stress testing, traditionally the most commonly performed non-invasive testing method for blood flow limitations, in general, detects only lumen narrowing of ≈75% or greater, although some physicians claim that nuclear stress methods can detect as little as 50%. Case studies have included autopsies of U.S. soldiers killed in World War II and the Korean War. A much-cited report involved autopsies of 300 U.S. soldiers killed in Korea. Although the average age of the men was 22.1 years,
New Blood Test May Rule Out Heart Attacks More Quickly [SEP] Myocardial infarction diagnosis // diagnosis when a person's history, physical exam, ECG and cardiac biomarkers suggest the likelihood of a problem. Cardiac markers or cardiac enzymes are proteins that leak out of injured myocardial cells through their damaged cell membranes into the bloodstream. Until the 1980s, the enzymes SGOT and LDH were used to assess cardiac injury. Now, the markers most widely used in detection of MI are "MB" subtype of the enzyme creatine kinase and cardiac troponins T and I as they are more specific for myocardial injury. The cardiac troponins T and I which are released within 4–6 hours of an attack
New Blood Test May Rule Out Heart Attacks More Quickly [SEP] Myocardial infarction // cell death, as measured by a blood test for biomarkers (the cardiac protein troponin or the cardiac enzyme CK-MB). When there is evidence of an MI, it may be classified as an ST elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) or Non-ST elevation myocardial infarction (NSTEMI) based on the results of an ECG. The phrase "heart attack" is often used non-specifically to refer to a myocardial infarction and to sudden cardiac death. An MI is different from—but can cause—cardiac arrest, where the heart is not contracting at all or so poorly that all vital organs cease to function, thus causing death. It is
New Blood Test May Rule Out Heart Attacks More Quickly [SEP] Heart rate // seen to be "using an allotment of heart beats" but rather an increased risk to the system from the increased rate. An Australian-led international study of patients with cardiovascular disease has shown that heart beat rate is a key indicator for the risk of heart attack. The study, published in "The Lancet" (September 2008) studied 11,000 people, across 33 countries, who were being treated for heart problems. Those patients whose heart rate was above 70 beats per minute had significantly higher incidence of heart attacks, hospital admissions and the need for surgery. Higher heart rate is thought to be correlated
Spanking kids can cause long-term harm: Canada study. [SEP] Corporal punishment in the home // spanking their children were three times more likely to also report using forms of punishment considered abusive to the researchers "such as beating, burning, kicking, hitting with an object somewhere other than the buttocks, or shaking a child less than 2 years old" than mothers who did not report spanking. The authors found that any spanking was associated with increased risk of abuse, and that there were strong associations between abuse and spanking with an object. Adam Zolotor, the study's lead author, noted that "increases in the frequency of spanking are associated with increased odds of abuse, and mothers who
Spanking kids can cause long-term harm: Canada study. [SEP] Corporal punishment in the home // in children's aggressive behavior. The few existing randomized controlled trials used to investigate physical punishment have shown that it is not more effective than other methods in eliciting children's compliance. A 2002 meta-analysis indicated that spanking did increase children's immediate compliance with parents' commands. However, according to Gershoff, those findings were overly influenced by one study, which found a strong relationship but had a small sample size (only sixteen children studied). A later analysis found that spanking children was not more effective than giving children time-outs in eliciting immediate compliance, and that spanking led to a reduction in long‑term compliance.
Spanking kids can cause long-term harm: Canada study. [SEP] Elizabeth Gershoff // on child and youth development, and the efficacy of early childhood and parental educational programs. In 2016, Gershoff and her colleagues published the results of a meta-analysis of the effects of corporal punishment and physical abuse on children. The studies included in the meta-analysis involved more than 160,000 children and spanned over a 50 year period. The results provided clear evidence in support of the view that spanking children is harmful. The more children were spanked, the more likely they were to experience anti-social behavior, aggression, mental health problems, and cognitive difficulties. The effects of spanking were indistinguishable from the
Spanking kids can cause long-term harm: Canada study. [SEP] Corporal punishment in the home // reductions in children’s aggression [...] Spanking consistently predicted increases in children’s aggression over time, regardless of how aggressive children were when the spanking occurred". A 2010 study at Tulane University found a 50% greater risk of aggressive behavior two years later in young children who were spanked more than twice in the month before the study began. The study controlled for a wide variety of confounding variables, including initial levels of aggression in the children. According to the study's leader, Catherine Taylor, this suggests that "it's not just that children who are more aggressive are more likely to be spanked."
Spanking kids can cause long-term harm: Canada study. [SEP] Spanking // discipline, studies have shown that parents tend to apply physical punishment inconsistently and tend to spank more often when they are angry or under stress. The use of corporal punishment by parents increases the likelihood that children will suffer physical abuse, and most documented cases of physical abuse in Canada and the United States begin as disciplinary spankings. If a child is frequently spanked, this form of corporal punishment tends to become less effective at modifying behavior over time (also known as extinction). In response to decreased effectiveness of spanking, some parents increase the frequency or severity of spanking or
Spanking kids can cause long-term harm: Canada study. [SEP] Corporal punishment in the home // report spanking on the buttocks with an object–such as a belt or a switch–are nine times more likely to report abuse". One study reported by Murray Straus in 2001 found that 40% of 111 mothers surveyed were worried that they could possibly hurt their children by using corporal punishment. Numerous studies have found increased risk of impaired child development from the use of corporal punishment. Corporal punishment by parents has been linked to increased aggression, mental health problems, impaired cognitive development, and drug and alcohol abuse. Many of these results are based on large longitudinal studies controlling for various confounding
Spanking kids can cause long-term harm: Canada study. [SEP] Corporal punishment in the home // spanking for managing undesired behavior". In particular, the AAP believes that any corporal punishment methods other than open-hand spanking on the buttocks or extremities, including striking with an object, striking which leaves marks lasting longer than a few minutes, pulling by the hair, jerking a child's arm and shaking a child, "should never be used". In the AAP's opinion, such punishments, as well as "physical punishment delivered in anger with intent to cause pain", are "unacceptable and may be dangerous to the health and well-being of the child." They also point out that "The more children are spanked, the more
Spanking kids can cause long-term harm: Canada study. [SEP] Spanking // is thought to reflect the child's perception that hitting is the way to deal with anger and frustration. There are also a number of documented adverse physical, mental, and emotional effects of spanking and other forms of corporal punishment, including various physical injuries, increased anxiety, depression, and antisocial behavior. Children who were spanked during childhood are more likely to abuse their own children and spouse. The American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) states no child under the age of two should be spanked. Additionally, the AAP recommends that primary care providers (e.g., pediatricians and family medicine physicians) begin to discuss parents'
Spanking kids can cause long-term harm: Canada study. [SEP] Corporal punishment in the home // as defiance and attachment to "delinquent" peer groups and encourages an acceptance of aggression and violence as acceptable responses to conflicts and problems. According to the Canadian Paediatric Society, "The research that is available supports the position that spanking and other forms of physical punishment are associated with negative child outcomes. The Canadian Paediatric Society, therefore, recommends that physicians strongly discourage disciplinary spanking and all other forms of physical punishment". The Royal College of Paediatrics and Child Health of the United Kingdom opposes corporal punishment of children in all circumstances, stating that "it is never appropriate to hit or beat
Spanking kids can cause long-term harm: Canada study. [SEP] Corporal punishment in the home // less effective to use". The AAP believes that spanking as a form of discipline can easily lead to abuse, noting also that spanking children younger than 18 months of age increases the chance of physical injury. The United States' National Association of Social Workers "opposes the use of physical punishment in homes, schools, and all other institutions where children are cared for and educated." Paulo Pinheiro asserts that "The [UN study] should mark a turning point—an end to adult justification of violence against children, whether accepted as 'tradition' or disguised as 'discipline' [...] Children’s uniqueness—their potential and vulnerability, their dependence
“On February 7, the WHO warned about the limited stock of PPE. That same day, the Trump administration announced it was sending 18 tons of masks, gowns and respirators to China.” [SEP] First 100 days of Donald Trump's presidency // Then White House Chief of Staff Reince Priebus signed an order on January 24, temporarily delaying the Environmental Protection Agency's (EPA) 30 final regulations that were pending in the Federal Register until March 21, 2017." Employees in the EPA's Office of Acquisition Management, received an email "within hours of President Trump's swearing in", from the new EPA administration, asking "that all contract and grant awards be temporarily suspended, effective immediately" which included "task orders and work assignments" until "further clarification." On February 1, the Trump administration published a Statement of Administration Policy to allow coal companies to dump mining waste
“On February 7, the WHO warned about the limited stock of PPE. That same day, the Trump administration announced it was sending 18 tons of masks, gowns and respirators to China.” [SEP] 2017 Arkema plant explosion // 2017, the same day as the first fire, the U.S. Chemical Safety Board announced an investigation. As of September 2017, this board was targeted for defunding by the Trump administration. The Environmental Protection Agency began formally asking questions of Arkema on September 7, 2017. When Arkema North American CEO Richard Rowe announced at a press conference that nothing could prevent an explosion at the Crosby facility, reporters requested documents about the plant. The company repeatedly refused to disclose detailed chemical inventories, facility maps and other documents about the Crosby site to the public, citing concerns about terrorism. Many of the
“On February 7, the WHO warned about the limited stock of PPE. That same day, the Trump administration announced it was sending 18 tons of masks, gowns and respirators to China.” [SEP] Economic policy of Donald Trump // published similar findings on July 6. "The New York Times" reported on June 16, 2018 that fear of an impending trade war was disrupting global commerce, noting that "shipments are slowing at ports and airfreight terminals around the world. Prices for crucial raw materials are rising. At factories from Germany to Mexico, orders are being cut and investments delayed. American farmers are losing sales as trading partners hit back with duties of their own." On June 18, 2018 Trump instructed his trade representative to identify an additional $200 billion in Chinese goods that would be hit with 10% tariffs if
“On February 7, the WHO warned about the limited stock of PPE. That same day, the Trump administration announced it was sending 18 tons of masks, gowns and respirators to China.” [SEP] China–United States relations // the Trump Administration’s national-security levies on steel and aluminum imports the previous month.The Chinese Government's response is measured, affecting $3 billion in annual trade or about 2% of U.S. goods exports to China. By late September 2018, the Trump Administration had placed tariffs (25% tax increase) on $250 billion worth of Chinese goods, in an attempt to offset the trade imbalance between the two countries. Huawei's Chief financial officer Meng Wanzhou, daughter of Huawei's founder Ren Zhengfei, was arrested in Canada on December 1, 2018 at the request of U.S. authorities. U.S. Senator Ben Sasse said that China is undermining
“On February 7, the WHO warned about the limited stock of PPE. That same day, the Trump administration announced it was sending 18 tons of masks, gowns and respirators to China.” [SEP] Presidency of Donald Trump // Navarro as the first Director of the National Trade Council. In April 2017, Trump imposed a tariff on Canada's softwood lumber industry, following complaints from dairy farmers in Wisconsin about Canada's dairy pricing policy. The Trump administration announced a deal with China in May 2017 where China would increase imports of US beef, speed up its approvals of genetically modified products and allow foreign-owned financial groups to offer credit rating services in China while the United States would allow imports of cooked poultry meat from China, encourage exports of liquid natural gas to China, and tacitly endorse Beijing's geopolitical and
“On February 7, the WHO warned about the limited stock of PPE. That same day, the Trump administration announced it was sending 18 tons of masks, gowns and respirators to China.” [SEP] Economic policy of Donald Trump // round of negotiations in Beijing within days. The Trump administration announced on June 15, 2018 that the tariffs would begin July 6, and China immediately announced it would retaliate and withdraw any proposals it had made in previous negotiations, which had included importing an additional $200 billion in American exports by 2020—including $70 billion in agricultural and energy products. "The Washington Post" reported on June 15 that China's threatened retaliatory tariffs were "targeted with laserlike precision at farmers, ranchers and certain manufacturing workers, as well as at the local economies of rural and small-town America," while "The Wall Street Journal"
“On February 7, the WHO warned about the limited stock of PPE. That same day, the Trump administration announced it was sending 18 tons of masks, gowns and respirators to China.” [SEP] Made in China 2025 // manufacturing up the value chain and become a major manufacturing power in direct competition with the United States. The US think tank Council on Foreign Relations stated in 2018 that it is a "real existential threat to U.S. technological leadership". The Li Keqiang Government maintains that the plan is in line with the country's WTO obligations. On 15 June 2018, the Trump administration imposed a higher tariff on Chinese goods, and escalated the trade tensions between China and the U.S. The tariff list mainly focuses on the products included in Made In China 2025 plan, including IT and robotics related
“On February 7, the WHO warned about the limited stock of PPE. That same day, the Trump administration announced it was sending 18 tons of masks, gowns and respirators to China.” [SEP] Trump tariffs // tariff. China implemented their tariffs on April 2, 2018. On April 3, 2018, the U.S. Trade Representative's office published an initial list of 1,300+ Chinese goods to impose levies upon, including products like flat-screen televisions, weapons, satellites, medical devices, aircraft parts and batteries. Chinese Ambassador Cui Tiankai responded by warning the US that they may fight back, saying "We have done the utmost to avoid this kind of situation, but if the other side makes the wrong choice, then we have no alternative but to fight back." On April 4, 2018, China's Customs Tariff Commission of the State Council decided
“On February 7, the WHO warned about the limited stock of PPE. That same day, the Trump administration announced it was sending 18 tons of masks, gowns and respirators to China.” [SEP] Trump tariffs // the tariffs led to increased concerns of a global trade war. The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 724 points, or 2.9%, after the tariffs were announced due to concerns over a trade war. Corporations that traded with China, such as Caterpillar Inc.and Boeing suffered large losses in their stock price. In response, the Ministry of Commerce of the People's Republic of China announced plans to implement its own tariffs on 128 U.S. products. 120 of those products, such as fruit and wine, will be taxed at a 15% duty while the remaining 8 products, including pork, will receive a 25%
“On February 7, the WHO warned about the limited stock of PPE. That same day, the Trump administration announced it was sending 18 tons of masks, gowns and respirators to China.” [SEP] Economic policy of Donald Trump // matched. On July 10, 2018 the Trump administration announced a list of $200 billion in Chinese products upon which tariffs would be imposed, subject to a two-month period for public comment and hearings. Those tariffs were implemented on September 17, with China responding the next day with $60 billion in tariffs on 5.207 American goods, including farm goods, machinery and chemicals. The European Union announced on June 21, 2018 that it would retaliate with tariffs targeted at Trump's political base, effective midnight that night. India and Turkey also announced retaliatory tariffs that day. Trump responded to the EU's retaliation on
NFL suspends Patriots’ Gordon for substance abuse violation. [SEP] Josh Gordon // use. Gordon entered the NFL's substance abuse program after pleading guilty to a driving while impaired charge in September 2014 and was prohibited from consuming alcohol during his time in the program. Gordon was officially suspended from the NFL for one year on February 3, 2015 and was not eligible to return until the start of the 2016 season. On January 20, 2016, Gordon applied to the league for reinstatement. His request was denied in March when it was reported that he had failed another drug test. On July 25, 2016, Gordon was reinstated by the NFL. He was allowed
NFL suspends Patriots’ Gordon for substance abuse violation. [SEP] 2015 Cleveland Browns season // Josh Gordon was facing a year-long suspension following a fifth failed drug test, this time for alcohol. This follows a 10-game suspension in 2014 for testing positive for marijuana. On February 3, the league imposed the suspension without pay for at least one year, possibly indefinitely. His earliest return would be training camp for the 2016 season. On February 3, 2015, quarterback Johnny Manziel voluntarily entered a rehab facility for dependence on alcohol. He exited the facility on April 12, shortly prior to the beginning of offseason workouts. In an incident widely dubbed as Textgate, it was announced on February
NFL suspends Patriots’ Gordon for substance abuse violation. [SEP] 2016 Cleveland Browns season // the NFL due to repeated violations of the league's substance abuse policy, causing him to miss the entire 2015 season. On April 11, it was revealed that Gordon had failed another drug test, and on April 12, the league announced that Gordon's appeal had been denied. He was eligible to reapply on August 1. On July 25, the NFL announced that Gordon would be reinstated on a conditional basis, and can stay with the team during a four-game ban to begin the season. The Browns’ opponents in this season were almost identical to that of their 2004 season when according
NFL suspends Patriots’ Gordon for substance abuse violation. [SEP] Josh Gordon // amidst the new NFL drug policy. Gordon was officially reinstated on November 17. On December 27, 2014, exactly one year removed from being selected into the Pro Bowl, the Browns suspended Gordon from the final game of the 2014 season due to a violation of team rules. Due to Gordon's suspensions, he only played five games in the 2014 season and caught 24 passes for 303 yards with no touchdowns. Gordon was suspended for the entire 2015 season due to violating the league's substance abuse policy. In January 2015, Gordon faced another year-long suspension due to testing positive for alcohol
NFL suspends Patriots’ Gordon for substance abuse violation. [SEP] 2008 New England Patriots season // Faulk was later suspended for the first game of the 2008 regular season for a violation of the NFL's substance abuse policy. On April 27, according to "The Boston Globe", offensive lineman Nick Kaczur was arrested in Whitestown, New York, when police discovered Kaczur had a "small amount of controlled substance for which he did not have a prescription," which was later identified as oxycodone. Kaczur was charged with criminal possession of a controlled substance in the seventh degree, a misdemeanor. In May, the article states Kaczur participated in a Drug Enforcement Administration sting operation, wearing a hidden recording device
NFL suspends Patriots’ Gordon for substance abuse violation. [SEP] 2014 Cleveland Browns season // due to a fourth failed drug test. On July 4, 2014 Josh Gordon was arrested for DWI in Raleigh, NC. On August 27, the suspension was upheld after Gordon's appeal. On September 12, after the NFL and the NFLPA approved a new drug testing program, Gordon's suspension was retroactively reduced to 10 games. On November 17, his reinstatement was officially announced and he returned Week 12 at the Georgia Dome, against the Atlanta Falcons, on November 23. The Browns had no games west of the Mississippi River in 2014, by virtue of their conference rotation with NFC South and AFC
NFL suspends Patriots’ Gordon for substance abuse violation. [SEP] Josh Gordon // to participate in training camp but was suspended for the first four games of the 2016 regular season. On September 29, 2016, Gordon left the Cleveland Browns to enter an in-patient rehabilitation facility. He was one week away from reinstatement to the NFL, serving his previous sentence of four regular season games. In a press statement, Gordon wrote, "After careful thought and deep consideration I've decided that I need to step away from pursuing my return to the Browns and my football career to enter an in-patient rehabilitation facility. This is the right decision for me and one that I
NFL suspends Patriots’ Gordon for substance abuse violation. [SEP] 2008 New England Patriots season // was later recovered in a dumpster near Andrews' apartment. Andrews was released on July 1. On February 22, running back Kevin Faulk was issued a misdemeanor summons after he was found with four marijuana cigarettes at a Lil Wayne concert in Lafayette, Louisiana. Upon returning to New England, Faulk passed a drug test and did not have to enter the NFL's substance abuse program. Faulk pleaded no contest to the charge on July 8 and was sentenced to a five-month suspended jail term, given one year of probation, fined, and ordered to complete community service and substance abuse treatment programs.
NFL suspends Patriots’ Gordon for substance abuse violation. [SEP] History of the NFL Commissioner // defensive lineman Tank Johnson was suspended months later due to his conduct involving weapon ownership and drunk driving. On August 31, 2007, Goodell suspended Dallas Cowboys quarterbacks coach Wade Wilson for five games and fined him $100,000, and suspended New England Patriots safety Rodney Harrison four games without pay, after they admitted the use of banned substances for medical purposes and to accelerate healing, respectively. The league indicated to Wilson that his more severe penalty was because they held "people in authority in higher regard than people on the field." On September 13, 2007, Goodell disciplined the New England Patriots
NFL suspends Patriots’ Gordon for substance abuse violation. [SEP] New England Patriots // situation and that the Patriots staff intentionally deflated the footballs. A later study by the American Enterprise Institute called the evidence and methodology of the Wells report "deeply flawed" and "unreliable". In the aftermath of the incident, the NFL suspended Brady without pay for the first four games of the 2015 season, fined the Patriots $1 million, and forced them to forfeit their 2016 first round draft pick and 2017 fourth round draft pick. Brady appealed his suspension, which was eventually vacated by the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, only for the United States
Broccoli May Slow or Reverse Some Atherosclerosis [SEP] Atherosclerosis // and vegetables decreases the risk of cardiovascular disease and death. Evidence suggests that the Mediterranean diet may improve cardiovascular results. There is also evidence that a Mediterranean diet may be better than a low-fat diet in bringing about long-term changes to cardiovascular risk factors (e.g., lower cholesterol level and blood pressure). A controlled exercise program combats atherosclerosis by improving circulation and functionality of the vessels. Exercise is also used to manage weight in patients who are obese, lower blood pressure, and decrease cholesterol. Often lifestyle modification is combined with medication therapy. For example, statins help to lower cholesterol, antiplatelet medications
Broccoli May Slow or Reverse Some Atherosclerosis [SEP] Campesterol // campesterol and other phytosterols can reduce the size of atherogenic plaques, but no data yet show that consumption of phytosterols results in any clinical benefit such as a reduction in atherosclerosis, heart disease, cardiac events, or mortality. Excessive supplementation with plant sterols may be associated with reductions in beta-carotene levels. Excessive supplementation with plant sterols may be associated with reductions in lycopene levels. One small study showed no significant side effects after 15 weeks other than a slight reduction in vitamin E levels, which was not significant after LDL cholesterol levels were taken into consideration. However, the authors concluded that
Broccoli May Slow or Reverse Some Atherosclerosis [SEP] Atherosclerosis // of arteries limits the flow of oxygen-rich blood to parts of the body. Diagnosis is based upon a physical exam, electrocardiogram, and exercise stress test, among others. Prevention is generally by eating a healthy diet, exercising, not smoking, and maintaining a normal weight. Treatment of established disease may include medications to lower cholesterol such as statins, blood pressure medication, or medications that decrease clotting, such as aspirin. A number of procedures may also be carried out such as percutaneous coronary intervention, coronary artery bypass graft, or carotid endarterectomy. Atherosclerosis generally starts when a person is young and worsens with age.
Broccoli May Slow or Reverse Some Atherosclerosis [SEP] Atherosclerosis // techniques such as PET and SPECT have provided ways of estimating the severity of atherosclerotic plaques. Up to 90% of cardiovascular disease may be preventable if established risk factors are avoided. Medical management of atherosclerosis first involves modification to risk factors–for example, via smoking cessation and diet restrictions. Prevention then is generally by eating a healthy diet, exercising, not smoking, and maintaining a normal weight. Changes in diet may help prevent the development of atherosclerosis. Tentative evidence suggests that a diet containing dairy products has no effect on or decreases the risk of cardiovascular disease. A diet high in fruits
Broccoli May Slow or Reverse Some Atherosclerosis [SEP] ApoA-1 Milano // that injection of a synthetic version of the mutant ApoA-1 into rabbits and mice could reverse vascular plaque buildup. Apo A-I Milano has been shown to reduce atherosclerosis in animal models and in a small phase 2 human trial. Recombinant adeno-associated virus 8 (AAV8) mediated Apo A-I Milano gene therapy in combination with low-cholesterol diet induces rapid and significant regression of atherosclerosis in mice. The first examination of using the mutant ApoA-1 in humans was conducted through a three way collaboration between the University of Milan and the companies Pharmacia and Upjohn in 1996, focusing on treatment of atherosclerosis. The
Broccoli May Slow or Reverse Some Atherosclerosis [SEP] Myocardial infarction // atherosclerosis affecting heart vessels. Physical activity can reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease, and people at risk are advised to engage in 150 minutes of moderate or 75 minutes of vigorous intensity aerobic exercise a week. Keeping a healthy weight, drinking alcohol within the recommended limits, and quitting smoking reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease. Substituting polyunsaturated fats such as olive oil and rapeseed oil instead of saturated fats may reduce the risk of myocardial infarction, although there is not universal agreement. Dietary modifications are recommended by some national authorities, with recommendations including increasing the intake of wholegrain starch, reducing
Broccoli May Slow or Reverse Some Atherosclerosis [SEP] Myricetin // diabetes mellitus. Antioxidants, including flavonoids such as myricetin, are often touted to reduce the risk of atherosclerosis, the hardening of arteries associated with high cholesterol. However, "in vivo" studies are lacking and "in vitro" studies are contradictory and do not support this claim. This claim is based on myricetin's proposed ability to increase LDL uptake by macrophages, which in theory would protect against atherosclerosis. This theoretical action of myricetin is not supported by experimental data. It is also proposed that myricetin may have the ability as a potent flavonoid antioxidant to prevent LDL oxidation, thus slowing the body's local inflammatory
Broccoli May Slow or Reverse Some Atherosclerosis [SEP] Atherosclerosis // early phase of arteriosclerosis, appears to be induced by a number of drugs that have an antiproliferative mechanism of action (Rainer Liedtke 2008). Cholesterol is delivered into the vessel wall by cholesterol-containing low-density lipoprotein (LDL) particles. To attract and stimulate macrophages, the cholesterol must be released from the LDL particles and oxidized, a key step in the ongoing inflammatory process. The process is worsened if there is insufficient high-density lipoprotein (HDL), the lipoprotein particle that removes cholesterol from tissues and carries it back to the liver. The foam cells and platelets encourage the migration and proliferation of smooth muscle cells,
Broccoli May Slow or Reverse Some Atherosclerosis [SEP] Myricetin // response and delaying the appearance of the first fatty streak and onset of atherosclerosis. Although mechanisms relating to myricetin specifically have not been proven, a diet that is rich in fruits and vegetables, and therefore rich in antioxidants, correlates with a decreased risk of cardiovascular disease, including atherosclerosis. It has also been shown that myricetin is effective in protecting neurons against oxidative stressors. Researchers have shown that PC12 cells treated with hydrogen peroxide (HO) as an oxidative stressor experience cell death due to apoptosis. When treated with myricetin, these oxidatively stressed cells displayed statistically significant increased cell survival. It has
Broccoli May Slow or Reverse Some Atherosclerosis [SEP] Atherosclerosis // lead to less cellular cholesterol and higher plasma HDL level through the regulation of ABCA1 expression. The sugar, cyclodextrin, removed cholesterol that had built up in the arteries of mice fed a high-fat diet. Aging is the most important risk factor for cardiovascular problems. The causative basis by which aging mediates its impact, independently of other recognized risk factors, remains to be determined. Evidence has been reviewed for a key role of DNA damage in vascular aging. 8-oxoG, a common type of oxidative damage in DNA, is found to accumulate in plaque vascular smooth muscle cells, macrophages and endothelial cells,
New adult behavioral health unit opens in northern Arkansas. [SEP] Arkansas Department of Human Services // Arkansas Department of Human Services The Arkansas Department of Human Services (DHS) is a state agency of Arkansas, headquartered in Donaghey Plaza South of the Donaghey Complex, a five-story building on the southwest corner of Main Street and 7th Street, in Little Rock.The state agency is in charge of maintaining social services for Arkansas by providing assistance to families and monitoring/inspecting health facilities. The Division of Youth Services (DYS) provides services to families and children. DYS operates correctional facilities for juveniles. The Arkansas Juvenile Assessment & Treatment Center (AJATC), located in Bryant in Saline County, near Alexander, is the primary
New adult behavioral health unit opens in northern Arkansas. [SEP] University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences // neonatal beds. The first 9 floors opened on January 19, 2009, with the 10th floor originally being a shell space for future expansion. Due to high hospital bed occupancy, that expansion was launched in 2011. The hospital expansion was built at the site of the old student dormitory, which was imploded on Feb. 19, 2006. The dorm was replaced with a , 177-unit Residence Hall, which opened to students in August 2006. The six-floor, Psychiatric Research Institute facility, a 40-bed facility built adjacent to the hospital expansion, includes space for inpatient and outpatient treatment, education, research and administration. It opened
New adult behavioral health unit opens in northern Arkansas. [SEP] Arkansas Department of Human Services // Juvenile Treatment Center for Girls on a property near the Poteau Mountains. Previous facilities of the State of Arkansas that housed juveniles include the Negro Boys Industrial School in Wrightsville, the Arkansas Boys Industrial School near Pine Bluff, and state industrial schools for white girls and black girls. On January 9, 1957 Orvel M. Johnson, the state legislative auditor, recommended consolidating the white and black girls' schools together and locating the new institution, which would still be racially segregated, on the site of the then-current boys school. Arkansas Department of Human Services The Arkansas Department of Human Services (DHS) is
New adult behavioral health unit opens in northern Arkansas. [SEP] Arkansas Children's Hospital // build a new hospital in Springdale, the Tyson family and Tyson Family Foods committed $15 million to the project, marking the largest gift the organization had ever received. The gift created the Tyson Family Tower at Arkansas Children's Northwest, anchoring the new facility which will include 233,613 square feet of inpatient beds, emergency care, diagnostic services and clinical space. In August 2016, Arkansas Children's Research Institute announced that it had received a $9.4 million award from the National Institutes of Health's Institutional Development Award program to create a center for the study of childhood obesity. Drs. Judith Weber and Elisabet
New adult behavioral health unit opens in northern Arkansas. [SEP] Oklahoma Department of Mental Health and Substance Abuse Services // renamed Western State Psychiatric Hospital, and now called the Northwest Center for Behavioral Health. A year later, a second state-operated facility was opened in Vinita, Oklahoma, called the Eastern Oklahoma Hospital for the Insane, later renamed to the Oklahoma Forensic Center. On October 31, 1963, President John F. Kennedy signed into law the Community Mental Health Act of 1963, which sparked a major transformation of the public mental health system by shifting resources away from large institutions towards community-based mental health treatment programs. Soon after the passage of this law, the Department created the Central Oklahoma Community Mental Health Center
New adult behavioral health unit opens in northern Arkansas. [SEP] Pine Rest Christian Mental Health Services // total cost of the project. Services include an older adult inpatient unit, outpatient services such as neuropsychological evaluation, memory disorder assessment and treatment recommendations, and diagnosis and treatment for senior cognitive and behavioral health issues. The center was named for its lead donors, the Foundation of Jay and Betty Van Andel and the Peter C. and Emajean Cook Foundation. In February 2014, a 22-bed inpatient hospital unit opened as part of a 3-phase facilities investment construction project. Services at the Redwood Unit are dedicated to the treatment and care of patients with co-occurring disorders (mental health diagnosis and substance abuse
New adult behavioral health unit opens in northern Arkansas. [SEP] Arkansas Children's Hospital // of over . Marcy Doderer is president & CEO of Arkansas Children's Hospital, succeeding Dr. Jonathan Bates after his 2013 retirement. Arkansas Children's has built a 233,613-square foot hospital in Springdale. Arkansas Children's Northwest will serve the 200,000 children who live in that 11-county area. The facility opened in February 2018. Wal-Mart and the Wal-Mart Foundation have invested $8 million in the project, while J.B. Hunt has given $5 million toward the construction. First Lady of Arkansas Hillary Clinton served on the board of the Arkansas Children's Hospital Legal Services from 1988 to 1992. The hospital includes 233,613 square feet
New adult behavioral health unit opens in northern Arkansas. [SEP] University of Missouri Health Care // operating video right at a patient’s bedside. Missouri Psychiatric Center, formerly known as Mid-Missouri Mental Health Center, offers short-term inpatient and outpatient treatment services for adults, adolescents and children with 57 inpatient beds. A 13-bed unit serves children and adolescents, while the remaining 44 beds are divided into two adult units. MUPC also offers an emergency room assessment unit to help with crisis stabilization and intake and discharge planning for patients. Psychiatrists also provide outpatient psychiatry care at MU Health Care's South Providence Medical Building, which opened in January 2015. Missouri Rehabilitation Center (MRC) was a 79-bed acute care hospital
New adult behavioral health unit opens in northern Arkansas. [SEP] Arkansas Department of Correction // parent units are Cummins, East Arkansas, Grimes, Tucker, and Varner. The McPherson Unit is the female parent unit. The exceptions to the parent unit process are made for prisoners going to boot camp (the boot camp is in the Wrightsville Unit, unincorporated Pulaski County), health reasons, and security reasons. The initial assignments last for at least 60 days. Inmates may be moved to other units based on behavior, institutional needs, job availability, and available space. The ADC operates the Willis H. Sargent Training Academy in England, Arkansas. The headquarters are in Pine Bluff. The ADC headquarters moved to the Pine
New adult behavioral health unit opens in northern Arkansas. [SEP] Barbara Ester Unit // Barbara Ester Unit Barbara A. Ester Unit is a correctional facility of the Arkansas Department of Correction (ADC), located in Pine Bluff, Arkansas. It is scheduled to have a capacity of 580 prisoners, and it is the first prison in the ADC dedicated to the re-entry of prisoners into society. In addition to prisoners who are to be released within six months it also houses prisoners who were incarcerated due to disobeying the rules of their parole. The prison's namesake is Barbara Ester, a prison guard holding the rank corporal at the East Arkansas Unit. She died on January 20,
California lawmakers want to repeal HIV criminalization laws. [SEP] Criminal transmission of HIV // 2010. On September 23, 2011, Rep. Barbara Lee (D-CA) introduced H.R. 3053, The Repeal Existing Policies that Encourage and Allow Legal HIV Discrimination Act or the REPEAL HIV Discrimination Act. The REPEAL HIV Discrimination Act calls for review of all federal and state laws, policies, and regulations regarding the criminal prosecution of individuals for HIV-related offenses. The bill died in the Subcommittee on Health, and also in 2013/2014 when introduced as HR 1843 and referred to the Subcommittee on Military Personnel. Courts have looked into the statistical probability of HIV transmission to overturn or reduce criminal sentences resulting from prosecutions.
California lawmakers want to repeal HIV criminalization laws. [SEP] Center for HIV Law and Policy // Allow Legal HIV Discrimination Act' (H.R. 3053), also called the REPEAL Act, proposed legislation that was introduced in the U.S. Congress on September 23, 2011, by Rep. Barbara Lee (D-CA). It called for review of all federal and state laws, policies, and regulations regarding the criminal prosecution of individuals for HIV-related offenses. It was the first piece of federal legislation to address HIV criminalization and provided incentives for states to reconsider laws and practices that target people with HIV for consensual sexual activity and conduct that poses no risk of HIV transmission. The bill had 41 cosponsors and was referred
California lawmakers want to repeal HIV criminalization laws. [SEP] Scott Wiener // similar bill. The bill passed the Senate with bipartisan support, but failed in the Assembly. Wiener reintroduced the bill the following year, this time limited to six cities whose mayors have supported the idea: San Francisco, Oakland, Los Angeles, Sacramento, West Hollywood, and Long Beach. Wiener joined Assembly member Todd Gloria to author SB 239, which aims to change the laws that make it a felony to expose someone to HIV without their knowledge and consent. Wiener said that the laws unfairly single out HIV-positive people. The bill passed and was signed by Governor Jerry Brown on October 6, 2017.
California lawmakers want to repeal HIV criminalization laws. [SEP] Criminal transmission of HIV in the United States // DOJ released a paper called "Best Practices Guide to Reform HIV-Specific Criminal Laws to Align with Scientifically-Supported Factors", designed to guide states in updating their statutes to "reflect contemporary understanding of HIV transmission routes and associated benefits of treatment" and to establish policies that "do not place unnecessary burdens on individuals living with HIV/AIDS". REPEAL HIV Discrimination Act was the abbreviated name of the 'Repeal Existing Policies that Encourage and Allow Legal HIV Discrimination Act' (H.R. 3053), also called the REPEAL Act, proposed legislation that was introduced in the U.S. Congress on September 23, 2011, by Rep. Barbara Lee (D-CA).
California lawmakers want to repeal HIV criminalization laws. [SEP] Criminal transmission of HIV in the United States // It called for review of all federal and state laws, policies, and regulations regarding the criminal prosecution of individuals for HIV-related offenses. It was the first piece of federal legislation to address HIV criminalization and provided incentives for states to reconsider laws and practices that target people with HIV for consensual sexual activity and conduct that poses no risk of HIV transmission. The bill had 41 cosponsors and was referred in September/October 2011 to three subcommittees, where it died. Barbara Lee re-introduced the REPEAL HIV Discrimination Act 2013 as H.R. 1843 in May 2013 with 42 cosponsors, and it again
California lawmakers want to repeal HIV criminalization laws. [SEP] LGBT rights in California // in the state of California. Surgeons who transplant organs from HIV-positive donors into HIV-positive patients are also protected from liability and from being penalized by the California Medical Board. This law is also in-line with the federal "HIV Organ Policy Equity Act", which reversed the federal ban on this procedure back in 2013. From January 1, 2019, law enforcement in California will be legally required to undergo mandatory sensitivity training on LGBT issues, a first for the United States. Support for LGBT rights and same-sex marriage have evolved significantly in the past decades. The first known opinion poll surveying attitudes
California lawmakers want to repeal HIV criminalization laws. [SEP] Center for HIV Law and Policy // publications from the Center for HIV Law and Policy such as "When Sex is a Crime and Spit is a Dangerous Weapon," mapping HIV criminalization in the United States. In May 2014, the Center for Gender and Sexuality Law at Columbia Law School published a report co-authored by the Center for HIV Law and Policy, the Center for American Progress and Streetwise & Safe called "Roadmap for Change: Federal Policy Recommendations for Addressing the Criminalization of LGBT People and People Living with HIV." The REPEAL HIV Discrimination Act was the abbreviated name of the 'Repeal Existing Policies that Encourage and
California lawmakers want to repeal HIV criminalization laws. [SEP] LGBT rights in Victoria // Act", a law which singled out intentional HIV transmission for harsher penalties of up to 25 years imprisonment, while the maximum penalty for manslaughter is 20 years. As a result of the reform, intentional infection of HIV is considered under existing criminal offences such as "causing serious injury". The "Crimes Amendment (Repeal of Section 19A) Act 2015" passed the Legislative Assembly on 7 May 2015 and passed, with bipartisan support, the Legislative Council on 28 May 2015, receiving royal assent on 2 June 2015, and went into effect immediately. Since 1 September 2015, an individual or an appropriate representative of
California lawmakers want to repeal HIV criminalization laws. [SEP] Prison sexuality // was passed in California when Governor Jerry Brown signed the Assembly Bill 966 also known as the Prisoner Protections for Family and Community Health Act to require the state to hand out condoms and make them available to inmates in 34 of its prison facilities. This bill protects the prisoner’s health as well while being cost effective. For the state, condom distribution is a low cost method to prevent the transmission of HIV and sexually transmitted diseases since individual HIV treatments are costly. As of September 12, 2016, a bill passed stating that birth control and hygiene products are allowed
California lawmakers want to repeal HIV criminalization laws. [SEP] LGBT rights in California // Appeals suspended the injunction on "SB 1172" and rejected the plaintiffs' claims against allowing for the ban on conversion therapy to go into effect. On June 26, 2014, the Supreme Court held a conference on whether or not to grant certiorari to "Pickup v. Brown". Certiorari was denied by the Supreme Court on June 30, 2014. California was the first state with such a law. On May 27, 2016, California Governor Jerry Brown signed "Senate Bill 1408 into law", effective immediately, that had recently unanimously passed the California State Legislature. The law protects organ donation and transplantation between HIV-positive people
More (people) die from indoor air pollution than from malaria, HIV/AIDS and TB combined. [SEP] Project Gaia // otitis media, cancer of the upper airway, and cataracts. Respiratory disease in children is the leading cause of death for children, though malaria and diarrheal diseases are better known. Indoor air pollution also disproportionately effects refugee, poor urban, and HIV/AIDs populations living in crowded and poorly ventilated conditions, and already carrying the burden of disease. Meanwhile, collecting wood involves risk to personal safety. Women and older children usually collect wood, often facing gender-based harassment and disputes with landowners who accuse them of trespassing. Women in Ethiopia's UNHCR refugee camps say that they fear assault, rape, and violence while searching for
More (people) die from indoor air pollution than from malaria, HIV/AIDS and TB combined. [SEP] Indoor air pollution in developing nations // almost all in low and middle income countries. The South East Asian and Western Pacific regions bear most of the burden with 1.69 and 1.62 million deaths, respectively. Almost 600,000 deaths occur in Africa, 200,000 in the Eastern Mediterranean region, 99,000 in Europe and 81,000 in the Americas. The remaining 19,000 deaths occur in high income countries. Even though the rate of dependence on biomass fuel is declining, this dwindling resource will not keep up with population growth which could ultimately put environments at even greater risk. Over the past several decades, there have been numerous studies investigating the air
More (people) die from indoor air pollution than from malaria, HIV/AIDS and TB combined. [SEP] Indoor air pollution in developing nations // health; the most important aspect to each of the villagers involved. The people reported less internal heat allowing for better sleep, fewer headaches and less fatigue, less eye irritation and coughs and dizziness. Safety increased due to the smoke hoods preventing goats and children from falling into the fire and less soot contamination was observed, along with snakes and rodents not entering the home. Windows allowed for the ability to view cattle from indoors, and also reduced kerosene needs due to improved interior lighting. Overall, the indoor environment improved greatly from various simple things that are taken for granted in
More (people) die from indoor air pollution than from malaria, HIV/AIDS and TB combined. [SEP] Indoor air pollution in developing nations // a result of indoor air pollution. Scientists predict the African continent will be the first to experience the effects of global warming where widespread poverty will put millions at further risk due to their limited capabilities to adapt. The potential is great for a more sustainable Africa with commitment from within and outside the region. Pneumonia is the number one killer of children in the world and indoor air pollution is a strongly significant risk factor for severe pneumonia. The global health community designated 2 November to be World Pneumonia Day in order to raise awareness about the disease and
More (people) die from indoor air pollution than from malaria, HIV/AIDS and TB combined. [SEP] Air pollution // terms of total deaths attributable to indoor and outdoor air pollution. The World Health Organization estimated in 2014 that every year air pollution causes the premature death of some 7 million people worldwide. India has the highest death rate due to air pollution. India also has more deaths from asthma than any other nation according to the World Health Organization. In December 2013 air pollution was estimated to kill 500,000 people in China each year. There is a positive correlation between pneumonia-related deaths and air pollution from motor vehicle emissions. Annual premature European deaths caused by air pollution are estimated
More (people) die from indoor air pollution than from malaria, HIV/AIDS and TB combined. [SEP] Project Gaia // in poorly ventilated spaces. 500,000 of these deaths are from childhood pneumonia. Indoor air pollution is especially deadly for children; it is responsible for nearly 50% of pneumonia deaths in children under the age of five. Because of their constant exposure to cook fires, women and children are particularly at risk. Indoor air pollution causes 56% of deaths and 80% of the global burden of disease for children under the age of five. Indoor air pollution also increases the risk of acute lower respiratory infections, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, and is associated with tuberculosis, perinatal mortality, low birth weight, asthma,
More (people) die from indoor air pollution than from malaria, HIV/AIDS and TB combined. [SEP] Developing country // income countries. The South East Asian and Western Pacific regions bear most of the burden with 1.69 and 1.62 million deaths, respectively. Almost 600,000 deaths occur in Africa. An earlier estimate from 2000 but the death toll between 1.5 million and 2 million deaths. Finding an affordable solution to address the many effects of indoor air pollution is complex. Strategies include improving combustion, reducing smoke exposure, improving safety and reducing labor, reducing fuel costs, and addressing sustainability. Water pollution is a major problem in many developing countries. It requires ongoing evaluation and revision of water resource policy at all levels
More (people) die from indoor air pollution than from malaria, HIV/AIDS and TB combined. [SEP] Pollution // defects. An October 2017 study by the Lancet Commission on Pollution and Health found that global pollution, specifically toxic air, water, soils and workplaces, kill nine million people annually, which is triple the number of deaths caused by AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria combined, and 15 times higher than deaths caused by wars and other forms of human violence. The study concluded that "pollution is one of the great existential challenges of the Anthropocene era. Pollution endangers the stability of the Earth’s support systems and threatens the continuing survival of human societies." Pollution has been found to be present widely in
More (people) die from indoor air pollution than from malaria, HIV/AIDS and TB combined. [SEP] Air pollution // joint study by the World Bank and the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation (IHME) at the University of Washington. These productivity losses are caused by deaths due to diseases caused by air pollution. One out of ten deaths in 2013 was caused by diseases associated with air pollution and the problem is getting worse. The problem is even more acute in the developing world. "Children under age 5 in lower-income countries are more than 60 times as likely to die from exposure to air pollution as children in high-income countries." The report states that additional economic losses caused by
More (people) die from indoor air pollution than from malaria, HIV/AIDS and TB combined. [SEP] Air pollution in the United States // African American census area, 20% or more people in the area live below the federal poverty level, is 4.44 times higher than the least impoverished white census area, less than 5% of the population in the area live below the federal poverty level, and 2.12 time higher than most impoverished white census area. Many studies found that both indoor and outdoor air pollution can increase the risk of respiratory cancer. Indoor pollution such as tobacco smoking is responsible to lung cancer. Outdoor air pollution also increases the risk of lung cancer. A study found that the combination of formaldehyde and
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention is ordering that all deaths no matter the cause be counted as COVID-19 deaths via a new ICD code. [SEP] International Statistical Classification of Diseases and Related Health Problems // describe the clinical picture of the patient. The diagnosis component of ICD-9-CM is completely consistent with ICD-9 codes, and remains the data standard for reporting morbidity. National adaptations of the ICD-10 progressed to incorporate both clinical code (ICD-10-CM) and procedure code (ICD-10-PCS) with the revisions completed in 2003. In 2009, the U.S. Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services announced that it would begin using ICD-10 on April 1, 2010, with full compliance by all involved parties by 2013. The years for which causes of death in the United States have been classified by each revision as follows: Cause of death
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention is ordering that all deaths no matter the cause be counted as COVID-19 deaths via a new ICD code. [SEP] International Statistical Classification of Diseases and Related Health Problems // the ICD-10 (without clinical extensions) was adopted for reporting mortality, but ICD-9-CM was still used for morbidity. Meanwhile, NCHS received permission from the WHO to create a clinical modification of the ICD-10, and has production of all these systems: On 21 August 2008, the US Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) proposed new code sets to be used for reporting diagnoses and procedures on health care transactions. Under the proposal, the ICD-9-CM code sets would be replaced with the ICD-10-CM code sets, effective 1 October 2013. On 17 April 2012 the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) published
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention is ordering that all deaths no matter the cause be counted as COVID-19 deaths via a new ICD code. [SEP] ICD-10 Clinical Modification // to be used and reported at their highest number of digits available. They are composed of codes with 3, 4, 5, 6 or 7 digits. Three digits are used as the heading of a category of codes that may be further subdivided by the use of fourth and/or fifth digits (preceded by a decimal, i.e. A00.1 Cholera due to Vibrio cholerae 01, biovar eltor), which provides greater detail. A code is invalid if it has not been coded to the full number of characters required for that code, including the 7th character, if applicable. Some codes require the use of
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention is ordering that all deaths no matter the cause be counted as COVID-19 deaths via a new ICD code. [SEP] ICD-10 // browser and ICD training materials. The online training includes a support forum, a self learning tool, and user guide. The following table lists the chapter number (using Roman numerals), the code range of each chapter, and the chapter's title from the international version of the ICD-10. Approximately 27 countries use ICD-10 for reimbursement and resource allocation in their health system, and some have made modifications to ICD to better accommodate its utility. The unchanged international version of ICD-10 is used in 117 countries for performing cause of death reporting and statistics. The national versions may differ from the base classification
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention is ordering that all deaths no matter the cause be counted as COVID-19 deaths via a new ICD code. [SEP] Vital statistics (government records) // countries is the most effective means to improve global health and has outlined 5 options for expanding Cause of Death reporting. "Despite the importance of tracking causes of death and the tradition since 1893 of standardisation of definitions and coding for causes of death in the International Classification of Diseases and Injuries (ICD), global assessments of causes of death are a major analytical challenge. Vital registration systems that include medical certification of the cause of death captured about 18.8 million deaths of an estimated annual total of 51.7 million deaths in 2005, which is the latest year for which the
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention is ordering that all deaths no matter the cause be counted as COVID-19 deaths via a new ICD code. [SEP] International Statistical Classification of Diseases and Related Health Problems // on United States death certificates, statistically compiled by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), are coded in the ICD, which does not include codes for human and system factors commonly called medical errors. The ICD includes a section classifying mental and behavioral disorders (). This has developed alongside the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM) of the American Psychiatric Association and the two manuals seek to use the same codes. The WHO is revising their classifications in these sections as part the development of the ICD-11 (scheduled for 2018), and an "International Advisory Group" has been
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention is ordering that all deaths no matter the cause be counted as COVID-19 deaths via a new ICD code. [SEP] National Violent Death Reporting System // deaths and their circumstances in the United States. In 1999, six foundations pooled their resources to create the National Violent Injury Statistics System (NVISS), which also collected data regarding violent deaths and developed many of the techniques necessary to do so at multiple locations. The following year, a group of experts recommended that the Centers for Disease Control create a publicly funded system similar to the NVISS. Funding for the system was first appropriated by Congress in 2002, and the system was established that year. The NVDRS began collecting data in 2003 from six states, a number that increased to
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention is ordering that all deaths no matter the cause be counted as COVID-19 deaths via a new ICD code. [SEP] Mortality Medical Data System // and is itself part of the National Vital Statistics System. There are two Mortality Medical Indexing, Classification, and Retrieval components. The Automated Classification of Medical Entities program automates the underlying cause-of-death coding rules. The input to ACME is the multiple cause-of-death codes (ICD) assigned to each entity (e.g., disease condition, accident, or injury) listed on cause-of-death certifications, preserving the location and order as reported by the certifier. ACME then applies the World Health Organization (WHO) rules to the ICD codes and selects an underlying cause of death. ACME has become the de facto international standard for the automated selection of
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention is ordering that all deaths no matter the cause be counted as COVID-19 deaths via a new ICD code. [SEP] ICD-10 // classification, the code set allows for more than 14,000 different codes, and permits the tracking of many new diagnoses compared to the preceding ICD-9. Through the use of optional sub-classifications ICD-10 allows for specificity regarding the cause, manifestation, location, severity, and type of injury or disease. The adapted versions may differ in a number of ways, and some national editions have expanded the code set even further; with some going so far as to add procedure codes. ICD-10-CM, for example, has over 70,000 codes. The WHO provides detailed information regarding the ICD via their website – including an ICD-10 online
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention is ordering that all deaths no matter the cause be counted as COVID-19 deaths via a new ICD code. [SEP] International Statistical Classification of Diseases and Related Health Problems // circumstances, and external causes of injury or disease. This system is designed to map health conditions to corresponding generic categories together with specific variations, assigning for these a designated code, up to six characters long. Thus, major categories are designed to include a set of similar diseases. ICD-11 is a major step forward, because it has the necessary terminological and ontological elements for seamless use in digital health. The ICD is published by the WHO and used worldwide for morbidity and mortality statistics, reimbursement systems, and automated decision support in health care. This system is designed to promote international comparability
Disability rights advocates sue Montana over Medicaid cuts. [SEP] Baxter v. Montana // scholars, thirty-one Montana state legislators and bioethicists, among others. Among the groups filing amicus briefs on behalf of the state were the Alliance Defense Fund on behalf of the Family Research Council, Americans United for Life, the American Association of Pro-Life Obstetricians and Gynecologists, disability rights group Not Dead Yet, and the Catholic Medical Association. The Montana Medical Association issued a statement opposing physician-assisted suicide, but refused to file an "amicus brief" in the appeal. On Dec. 31, 2009, the Montana Supreme Court ruled in favor of Baxter. Although they did not address the constitutional question, they ruled on narrower
Disability rights advocates sue Montana over Medicaid cuts. [SEP] John Morrison (Montana politician) // expansion of children's health coverage. In the first year of operation, it brought over $200 million in new federal matching dollars into Montana and covered 10,000 additional children. Healthy Montana Kids now covers 91,000 Montana Children. As Insurance Commissioner, Morrison banned "discretionary clauses" in group health and disability insurance plans and successfully defended the ban at the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 9th Circuit in "Standard Ins. Co v. Morrison", 584 F. 3d 837 (2009). Through the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC), Morrison led passage of a similar model law that has been adopted in more than a
Disability rights advocates sue Montana over Medicaid cuts. [SEP] Terri Schiavo case // and co-authored the 1990 Americans with Disabilities Act. American disability rights groups traditionally tend to ally themselves with Democrats and the political left; however, in the Schiavo case, they joined pro-life organizations in opposing the removal of her feeding tube and supporting the Palm Sunday Compromise. According to Marilyn Golden, Harkin's support was necessary for passage of the bill, as any voice opposition by Democrats would have delayed it. As in the state courts, all of the Schindlers' federal petitions and appeals were denied, and the U.S. Supreme Court declined to grant certiorari, effectively ending the Schindlers' judicial options. At
Disability rights advocates sue Montana over Medicaid cuts. [SEP] Baxter v. Montana // is authorized. The others are California, Colorado, Oregon, Washington, Hawaii and Vermont: it is authorized in the District of Columbia as well. The original lawsuit was brought by four Montana physicians (Stephen Speckart, C. Paul Loehnen, Lar Autio, and George Risi, Jr., M.D.s), Compassion & Choices and Robert Baxter, a seventy-six-year-old truck driver from Billings, Montana, who was dying of lymphocytic leukemia. The plaintiffs asked the court to confirm a constitutional right "to receive and provide aid in dying". The state argued that "the Constitution confers no right to aid in ending one’s life." Judge Dorothy McCarter, of Montana's First
Disability rights advocates sue Montana over Medicaid cuts. [SEP] Fairness Project // a Montana ballot to extend the previously temporary expanded Medicaid provision failed to pass. The first lost campaign out of the Project's targets, the ballot campaign set a record for the most expensive ever fought in the USA. This was due to the funding provisions of the proposal, which placed additional taxes on tobacco products. As well as significant funding from the Project and other like-minded donors in favour, the tobacco industry spend $17,000,000 campaigning in opposition. The Montana legislature has stated they will debate the program in January. The primary other issue handled by the Fairness Project to date
Disability rights advocates sue Montana over Medicaid cuts. [SEP] Jennifer Velez // secure a waiver for a Medicaid overhaul in the state in 2012. The advocacy group Disability Rights New Jersey filed two major lawsuits filed against the state of New Jersey. The group accused the state of improperly segregating people with mental illnesses developmental disabilities. Velez was also criticized for the closing of two developmental centers and a psychiatric hospital which she oversaw. Critics of the closings, including disability advocates and family members of patients, argued the process was rushed and influenced by politics. In February 2015, Velez announced she would be leaving her post as Commissioner at the end of
Disability rights advocates sue Montana over Medicaid cuts. [SEP] Coons v. Geithner // treatments." Because these decisions cannot be reviewed by Congress nor the courts, the lawsuit claimed that the separation of powers doctrine is violated as a result of the health care legislation. In addition, thirty Arizona lawmakers joined the suit because they believed the bill violates their First Amendment rights to cast votes for the benefit of their constituents. For example, in 2010, the Arizona Legislature sought to reduce the state's budget deficits by voting to reduce state funding for Medicaid. However, after the federal health care bill was passed, the Legislature had to restore all state funding for Medicaid or
Disability rights advocates sue Montana over Medicaid cuts. [SEP] Benefis Health System // psychiatric and chemical dependency services. Benefis also said it would lose several million dollars a year in federal payments as well. On March 24, the injunction was lifted. Benefis filed an emergency motion with the Montana Supreme Court three days later, appealing the district court's ruling. The state of Montana then issued a six-month provisional license to Central Montana to operate as a general hospital. But on October 4, 2006, the Montana Supreme Court ruled 4-to-3 to uphold the district court's dismissal of the temporary injunction. However, the state supreme court declined to rule on other issues raised by Benefis'
Disability rights advocates sue Montana over Medicaid cuts. [SEP] Mark Brnovich // for Individuals with Disabilities from filing new lawsuits in September 2016. In December of that year the office filed a motion to dismiss the lawsuits. A judge granted the Attorney General's office request in February 2017, dismissing over 1,000 of the lawsuits. After the successful action by his office, Brnovich remarked: "Arizona is not going to tolerate serial litigators who try to shake down small hardworking businesses by exploiting the disability community." On September 8, 2017, Brnovich sued the Arizona Board of Regents, saying the entity in charge of setting tuition for Arizona universities had "dramatically and unconstitutionally" increased tuition
Disability rights advocates sue Montana over Medicaid cuts. [SEP] Terri Schiavo case // feeding tubes. In a landmark ruling, the Florida Supreme Court decided that Browning had "the constitutional right to choose or refuse medical treatment, and that right extends to all relevant decisions concerning one's health". During the years of legal proceedings, disability rights groups and activists closely monitored and involved themselves in the case. In March 2003, twelve disability rights groups, led by Not Dead Yet, along with four other amici, filed an amicus curiae brief in which they opposed the removal of Schiavo's feeding tube. They also used the Schiavo case to advocate for federal review in cases where third
Singer and actress Demi Lovato passed away in August 2018. [SEP] Demi Lovato // Demi Lovato Demetria Devonne Lovato ( ; born August 20, 1992) is an American singer, songwriter and actress. After appearing on the children's television series "Barney & Friends" as a child, she received her breakthrough role as Mitchie Torres in the Disney Channel television film "Camp Rock" (2008) and its sequel "" (2010). Since signing with Hollywood Records, Lovato has released six studio albums, including "Don't Forget" (2008), "Here We Go Again" (2009), "Unbroken" (2011), "Demi" (2013), "Confident" (2015), and "Tell Me You Love Me" (2017). Lovato earned seven top 20 entries on the US "Billboard" Hot 100 chart: "This
Singer and actress Demi Lovato passed away in August 2018. [SEP] Demi Lovato // of you and doing the job that I wish I could do'." She has written multiple songs about him. Patrick died of cancer on June 22, 2013, at age 53. After his death, Lovato said that he had been mentally ill, and in his honor she created the Lovato Treatment Scholarship Program. Lovato had suffered from depression, an eating disorder, self-harm, and being bullied before she went into rehab at the age of 18. On November 1, 2010, Lovato withdrew from the Jonas Brothers Live in Concert tour, entering a treatment facility for "physical and emotional issues". It was reported
Singer and actress Demi Lovato passed away in August 2018. [SEP] Demi Lovato // and alcohol problems. On June 21, 2018, Lovato released "Sober" in which she revealed she had relapsed after six years of sobriety. On July 24, 2018, she was rushed to the Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles after emergency services were called to her home due to an opioid overdose. She was reported to be stable and recovering later in the day. Lovato was reported to have overdosed on oxycodone laced with fentanyl and was revived with naloxone. Lovato is an active supporter of gay rights. When the Defense of Marriage Act was struck down in June 2013, she tweeted:
Singer and actress Demi Lovato passed away in August 2018. [SEP] Demi Lovato // Health Awareness Day in Washington, D.C.. She has also become an advocate for the LGBT community. In 2014, she became the face for the Human Rights Campaign's Americans for Marriage Equality Campaign. In April 2016, Lovato was honored with the GLAAD Vanguard Award for her activism. Lovato was born on August 20, 1992 in Albuquerque, New Mexico to former Dallas Cowboys cheerleader Dianna De La Garza (née Dianna Lee Smith) and engineer and musician Patrick Martin Lovato. She has an older sister named Dallas; a younger maternal half-sister, actress Madison De La Garza; and an older paternal half-sister named Amber,
Singer and actress Demi Lovato passed away in August 2018. [SEP] Demi Lovato // (2013) and a YouTube documentary about her life and career, "Demi Lovato: Simply Complicated" (2017). Lovato is a pop, pop rock, and R&B artist. Lovato has received a number of accolades, including an MTV Video Music Award, 13 Teen Choice Awards, five People's Choice Awards, an ALMA Award, and a Latin American Music Award. Outside the entertainment industry, Lovato has been involved with several social and environmental causes since the launch of her career. In May 2013, she was cited for her dedication as a mentor to teens and young adults with mental health challenges at a National Children's Mental
Singer and actress Demi Lovato passed away in August 2018. [SEP] Demi Lovato // to violence-scarred young people living around Kirkuk and Saladin Governorate, Iraq. Headlining Co-headlining Promotional Opening act Demi Lovato has won several awards, including an award at the MTV Video Music Awards, one award at the ALMA Awards, five People's Choice Awards, a "Billboard" Women in Music award, a Guinness World Record and fourteen Teen Choice Awards. Lovato has received two Grammy Award nominations, four "Billboard" Music Awards nominations and a Brit Award nomination. Demi Lovato Demetria Devonne Lovato ( ; born August 20, 1992) is an American singer, songwriter and actress. After appearing on the children's television series "Barney &
Singer and actress Demi Lovato passed away in August 2018. [SEP] Demi Lovato discography // Demi Lovato discography American entertainer Demi Lovato has released six studio albums, two extended plays (EPs), and thirty-three singles (eleven as a featured artist). Prior to launching her music career, Lovato starred in the Disney Channel musical television film "Camp Rock", which first aired on June 20, 2008. Lovato's duet with Joe Jonas, "This Is Me", was released as a single from the film's accompanying soundtrack and peaked at number nine on the "Billboard" Hot 100 and inside the top twenty in several international markets. After signing with Hollywood Records, Lovato released her debut solo single, "Get Back", which peaked
Singer and actress Demi Lovato passed away in August 2018. [SEP] Demi Lovato // Is Me", "Here We Go Again", "Skyscraper", "Give Your Heart a Break", "Heart Attack", "Cool for the Summer", and "Sorry Not Sorry". Of her television credits, Lovato starred as the titular character on "Sonny with a Chance" from 2009 to 2011; was featured as a judge and mentor on the American version of "The X Factor" in 2012 and 2013; and appeared as a recurring character on "Glee". Her struggles with bipolar disorder, addiction, an eating disorder, and self-harm received significant media attention in the 2010s, in response to which she published the book "Staying Strong: 365 Days a Year"
Singer and actress Demi Lovato passed away in August 2018. [SEP] Demi Lovato // range is astounding." She went on to further describe her vocals as "spectacular." On her 18th birthday, Lovato bought a Mediterranean-style house in Los Angeles, California; however, she decided to live in a "sober house" in Los Angeles after leaving rehab in January 2011. Lovato was romantically linked to "Camp Rock" co-star Joe Jonas during her time as a Disney Channel star, but revealed years later that they only dated for "a month or two" in 2010. From 2010 to 2016, Lovato was in a relationship with actor Wilmer Valderrama. In the summer of 2016, Lovato began dating UFC mixed
Singer and actress Demi Lovato passed away in August 2018. [SEP] Demi Lovato // was cited for her dedication as a mentor to teens and young adults with mental-health problems at a National Children's Mental Health Awareness Day hosted by the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration in Washington. In late June 2013 Lovato announced the creation of the Lovato Treatment Scholarship Program, named for her late father, to pay treatment costs for mentally-ill patients. In August 2013, she traveled to Kenya for her 21st birthday to participate in a program of the international charity organization Free the Children. In May 2014, Lovato was named the LA Pride Parade Grand Marshal and the
Genes offer predictions on leukemia [SEP] Breast cancer classification // commercial-stage 80-gene panel marketed by Agendia, either as a standalone test, or combined with the MammaPrint gene profile. The choice of established chemotherapy medications, if chemotherapy is needed, may also be affected by DNA assays that predict relative resistance or sensitivity. Topoisomerase II (TOP2A) expression predicts whether doxorubicin is relatively useful. Expression of genes that regulate tubulin may help predict the activity of taxanes. Various molecular pathway targets and DNA results are being incorporated in the design of clinical trials of new medicines. Specific genes such as p53, NME1, BRCA and PIK3CA/Akt may be associated with responsiveness of the cancer
Genes offer predictions on leukemia [SEP] David Baltimore // as a model for the study of disease. They suggested that "control of lg gene rearrangement might be the only mechanism that determines the specificity of heavy chain gene expression within the lymphoid cell lineage." in 1987, they created transgenic mice with the fused gene that developed fatal leukemia. David G. Schatz and Marjorie Oettinger, as students in Baltimore's research group in 1988 and 1989, identified the protein pair that rearranges immunoglobulin genes, the recombination-activating gene RAG-1 and RAG-2. this was a key discovery in determining how the immune system can have specificity for a given molecule out of many
Genes offer predictions on leukemia [SEP] Chronic myelomonocytic leukemia // mutations in genes such as ASXL1 and EZH2 are associated with poor prognosis. CMML has a 20-30% chance of transformation to AML, a lower rate than other similar diseases. The CMML-2 subtype is associated with increased risk of transformation and ASXL1 and RUNX1 mutations also increase the risk of transition to AML. The International Prognostic Scoring System (IPSS) was developed in the mid-1990s to assess the prognosis of MDS patients. This system stratifies cases into 2 groups; a lower-risk group (sub divided into low and intermediate-1) and a higher risk (subdivided into intermediate-2 and high). It uses the blast percentage,
Genes offer predictions on leukemia [SEP] Acute lymphoblastic leukemia // lead to the creation of a leukemic lymphoblast. These changes include chromosomal translocations, intrachromosomal rearrangements, changes in the number of chromosomes in leukemic cells, and additional mutations in individual genes. Chromosomal translocations involve moving a large region of DNA from one chromosome to another. This move can result in placing a gene from one chromosome that promotes cell division to a more actively transcribed area on another chromosome. The result is a cell that divides more often. An example of this includes the translocation of "C-MYC", a gene that encodes a transcription factor that leads to increased cell division, next
Genes offer predictions on leukemia [SEP] Acute megakaryoblastic leukemia // to suppress the expression of various genes that are involved in the maturation of platelet, myeloid and lymphocyte precursor cells. In consequence, the RBM15-MLK1 fusion protein acts in an unregulated fashion to suppress MLK1 targeted genes while stimulating RPBJ target genes. This causes an over-active Notch signaling pathway and, among other abnormalities, expansion of fetal hematopoiesis and development of AMKL in a small percentage of adult mice. It is assumed that these events must be accompanied by other, as yet undefined, oncogenic (i.e., cancer causing) events to explain the development of human non-Down AMLK. A large number of other genetic
Genes offer predictions on leukemia [SEP] Leukemia // twin studies. The affected people may have a single gene or multiple genes in common. In some cases, families tend to develop the same kinds of leukemia as other members; in other families, affected people may develop different forms of leukemia or related blood cancers. In addition to these genetic issues, people with chromosomal abnormalities or certain other genetic conditions have a greater risk of leukemia. For example, people with Down syndrome have a significantly increased risk of developing forms of acute leukemia (especially acute myeloid leukemia), and Fanconi anemia is a risk factor for developing acute myeloid leukemia. Mutation
Genes offer predictions on leukemia [SEP] MECOM // leukemia (AML), myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) and chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML), and more recently has been shown as a poor prognostic indicator. Its function in these cells may be regulated by phosphorylation of serine196, in its N-terminal DNA binding domain. All of these involve erratic cellular development and differentiation in the bone marrow leading to dramatic alterations in the normal population of blood cells. EVI1 has also been found to play a role in solid ovarian and colon tumors, although it is not yet well characterized in this context. It has been hypothesized that it acts as a survival factor in
Genes offer predictions on leukemia [SEP] BAALC // Weber et al. where no difference in mutations in IDH1 and IDH2 where seen depending on expression of BAALC. IGFBP7 is another gene involved in leukemia, this was found conducting gene expression profiles (GEP) with BAALC. This gene has BAALC characteristics and, unlike BAALC, may have a role in drug resistance and the mechanism of leukemogenesis. It has been found that treatment for some acute leukemias failed due to BAALC and this suggests BAALC to be a potential surrogate marker. The use of BAALC expression in acute leukemia prognosis is unclear and being studied.Prognosis of patients with AML and BAALC
Genes offer predictions on leukemia [SEP] Pier Paolo Pandolfi // mechanisms and genetics underlying the pathogenesis of leukemias, lymphomas and solid tumors, and modeled these cancers in the mouse. His basic and translational research has led to the development of many experimental trials. He has also presented a new theory describing how messenger RNAs and non-coding RNAs exert their biological functions with profound implications for human genetics, cell biology and cancer biology. While a medical student, Pandolfi cloned and characterized PML-RARa (retinoic acid receptor alpha), the product of the long-sought after t(15;17) chromosomal translocation of acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) and its normal counterpart promyelocytic leukemia protein (PML). Later, Pandolfi's lab
Genes offer predictions on leukemia [SEP] Hairy cell leukemia // hairy cells, such as trisomy 5 had been found. The expression of genes is also dysregulated in a complex and specific pattern. The cells under express 3p24, 3p21, 3q13.3-q22, 4p16, 11q23, 14q22-q24, 15q21-q22, 15q24-q25, and 17q22-q24 and overexpress 13q31 and Xq13.3-q21. It has not yet been demonstrated that any of these changes have any practical significance to the patient. The diagnosis of HCL may be suggested by abnormal results on a complete blood count (CBC), but additional testing is necessary to confirm the diagnosis. A CBC normally shows low counts for white blood cells, red blood cells, and platelets in
Foster care, mental health, guns on DeWine’s 2020 agenda. [SEP] Darrell Steinberg // as Chair of the Assembly Committees on Budget, Appropriations, Judiciary, Labor and Employment, and the Select Committee on High Priority Schools. He authored 70 bills that were signed into law in areas that included mental health, K-12 education, foster care, and workplace safety. Steinberg is considered a strong advocate for children and mental health issues. He was an opponent of mandatory arbitration clauses. He authored legislation to focus additional educational resources on high-poverty schools and make them more accountable for improvement. He authored several nationally recognized laws to improve the state’s foster care system, including measures to improve system accountability
Foster care, mental health, guns on DeWine’s 2020 agenda. [SEP] Mike DeWine // candidate to be endorsed by the Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence and displayed that endorsement on his campaign webpage. After President George W. Bush nominated White House Counsel Harriet Miers on October 3, 2005, for a seat on the U.S. Supreme Court, DeWine said "I think the fact she doesn't have judicial experience will add to the diversity of the Supreme Court. There is no reason everyone has to have that same [judicial] background." <nowiki>*</nowiki>Write-in candidates Michael Fitzsimmons received 45 votes (< 1%) and Patrick Flower received 29 votes (< 1%) Mike DeWine Richard Michael DeWine (born January 5,
Foster care, mental health, guns on DeWine’s 2020 agenda. [SEP] Mike DeWine // if not for the DeWine initiative. DeWine also launched the Crimes Against Children Initiative, which paired BCI criminal investigators with seasoned prosecuting attorneys to investigate and prosecute child predators. DeWine’s Crimes Against Children Initiative focuses on holding accountable those who sexually and physically abuse children, those who share and view child pornography, and those who target children online. DeWine’s office also developed several task forces for the investigation and prosecutions of human trafficking throughout the state. As attorney general, DeWine took steps to close down "pill mills" in Ohio that fueled the opioid epidemic. By the end of his first
Foster care, mental health, guns on DeWine’s 2020 agenda. [SEP] Mike DeWine // services. In October 2017, DeWine announced a 12-pronged plan to combat the opioid epidemic, drawing from his experience breaking up pill mills, prosecuting traffickers, supporting recovery, and advocating the importance of drug-use prevention education. In addition, Attorney General DeWine has gone after the pharmaceutical industry, suing opioid manufacturers and distributors for their alleged roles in fraudulent marketing and unsafe distribution of opioids that fueled the epidemic in Ohio and across the country. In October 2017, news reports surfaced that Anthony Precourt, the investor/operator of the Columbus Crew, was exploring the option of moving the team out of state. After the
Foster care, mental health, guns on DeWine’s 2020 agenda. [SEP] Mike DeWine // states. DeWine opposed State Issue 1, Ohio's constitutional amendment defining marriage as one man and one woman, arguing that the prohibitions against employee benefits for domestic partners would hurt Ohio businesses. In 2004 DeWine co-sponsored an amendment to renew the Federal Assault Weapons Ban. He has repeatedly received an "F" rating from the National Rifle Association. He was one of only two Republican Senators to vote against the Protection of Lawful Commerce in Arms Act, which banned lawsuits against gun manufacturers, distributors and dealers for criminal misuse of their products. In the 2006 election cycle, DeWine was the first senatorial
Foster care, mental health, guns on DeWine’s 2020 agenda. [SEP] Steven Horsford // all Americans should have health care of the sort provided to veterans and senior citizens. He supports a gun-reform package that would include background checks, a ban on assault weapons and bump stocks, an end to gun-show loopholes, an increase in mental-health funding and programs to address bullying in schools. Asked in May 2018 about gun confiscation, he said, “I believe we have to be very careful under the Second Amendment not to take away someone’s right, but to be clear, assault rifles and weapons of war are not the same as other forms of weapons, and we need to
Foster care, mental health, guns on DeWine’s 2020 agenda. [SEP] Jane E. Norton // Task Force on Small Group and Rural Access Issues; the Governor's Task Force for Persons with Disabilities; and the Governor's Blue Ribbon Panel on Workforce Issues in Long Term Care. In October, 2006, she was invited to speak at the White House Conference on School Safety, where she shared lessons learned from the Columbine High School massacre, citing the importance of interoperable communications, emergency planning, inter-agency training, community participation, and moral literacy. On September 15, 2009, Norton held town-hall meetings in Denver, Colorado Springs, and Grand Junction to announce her bid for the Republican nomination to oppose incumbent U.S. Senator
Foster care, mental health, guns on DeWine’s 2020 agenda. [SEP] Joyce Foster // was named to seats on the Senate Business Committee and the Senate Local Government and Energy Committee, where she will serve as vice-chair. During the 2009 session, Foster introduced legislation to require the Colorado Division of Wildlife to place a higher priority on predator control, after increasing numbers of coyote attacks south of Denver. The bill, however, was killed in committee due to concerns over its vagueness. Foster also introduced a resolution in support of the nation of Israel that was criticized by peace activists as reflecting a one-sided perspective on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. In May 2010 it was alleged
Foster care, mental health, guns on DeWine’s 2020 agenda. [SEP] Jane Thornthwaite // in 2016. Many of the recommendations in the report were later adopted by government, including: supporting sexual and gender minority youth in schools through general and targeted programs, appointing a Minister for Mental Health, and Foundry, a collection of integrated, one-stop shop for youth ages 12 to 24 seeking a whole range of health care services, including mental health support, social services, employment services, and drug and alcohol programs. Thornthwaite also assisted in having a North Shore peak named after longtime North Shore Rescue Team Leader, Tim Jones (Search and Rescue). Thornthwaite was part of a group of elected officials
Foster care, mental health, guns on DeWine’s 2020 agenda. [SEP] Donne Trotter // provide health care to low-income families. He fought to include funding in the state budget for the "FamilyCare" program, which provides health insurance to the parents of children enrolled in "KidCare". In 2001, Trotter sponsored and passed the law that created the Abandoned Newborn Infant Protection Act. The legislation provides that birth parents may legally leave a newborn at a hospital, fire station, or emergency medical facility. If neither child abuse nor neglect is suspected, no questions are asked. Trotter is a vocal advocate of gun control laws, having cosponsored 31 bills on the issue. In the 99th General Assembly
11-year-old shares her story battling cancer with classmates. [SEP] 11 Birthdays // quality of the book’s middle-grade friendships will ring true to its audience, and Amanda’s voice is likable and humorous.” Publishers Weekly also states, “Like a Groundhog Day for middle grade readers, Mass' (11 Birthdays) winning story features a girl seemingly trapped in her 11th birthday. Amanda seems doomed to relive her failed try-out for the gymnastics team, her mother being fired from her job and, worst of all, the party that even her best friend leaves early—to go to the party hosted by her former friend, Leo. The two have celebrated every previous birthday together (they were born on the
11-year-old shares her story battling cancer with classmates. [SEP] Lynne Cherry // ban on plastic bags ["Team Marine"]; Florida students saving their school $53,000 in energy bills ["Dreaming in Green"];and 11-year-old Felix Finkbeiner from Germany planting a million trees ("Plant for the Planet"). When the three 9-year-old girls in Save Tomorrow see the other Young Voices for the Planet films, they are inspired to testify at their Town Meeting where they succeed in overturning a bill prohibiting solar panels on town buildings. (Solar panels were then installed on all town buildings). "Olivia's Birds and the Oil Spill" features a girl from Long Island, NY who raised $200,000 to help save and clean
11-year-old shares her story battling cancer with classmates. [SEP] Rifqa Bary controversy // and 45 weeks of chemotherapy, Bary stopped her cancer treatments. Her parents asked the courts to force their daughter to continue receiving chemotherapy, but they refused. Bary has been declared cancer free. On August 10, 2010, Bary turned 18 years old and Franklin County Children Services' custody of her ended. After the gag order was lifted on her hearings, her father and mother stated that Bary had sent them a video two weeks prior, along with candy and music, saying she loved them. They also stated that Bary sent them letters including one where she thanked them for helping her
11-year-old shares her story battling cancer with classmates. [SEP] 11 Birthdays // same day), but a misunderstanding on their 10th has gone unresolved. Girls will relate to Amanda’s insecurities, and the confidence and insights she gains will resonate with them. Mass’s expertise with pacing keeps the story moving at a lively clip, and her understanding of this age group is as finely honed as ever.” "11 Birthdays" has been nominated for and received numerous awards throughout the country, including the William Allen White Award for grades 3-5 in 2012, and has been chosen a 2009 Library Guild Selection. The novels of the "Willow Falls" series have varying protagonists, who become friends. They
11-year-old shares her story battling cancer with classmates. [SEP] Tania Katan // Katan has been treated for breast cancer twice: at age 21, and at age 31. As a result of her experiences, she has become an advocate for breast cancer awareness, and has written a memoir and a play about breast cancer. Her first memoir, "My One-Night Stand With Cancer," received the Stonewall Book Award, the Judy Grahn Award for Nonfiction from the Publishing Triangle, and a finalist for the Lambda Literary Award. Katan published a second memoir, "Pop (Childhood 6 of 1)" in 2015. Her writing can also be found in publications such as "The Huffington Post", "The Advocate," and
11-year-old shares her story battling cancer with classmates. [SEP] Team Heather // Gardner of Washington, D.C. and Renee Gardner Duddy of Jacksonville, Florida. Rebecca Gardner is a breast cancer survivor. Heather was a graduate of Manchester High School (1994) and The University of Akron (1999). She was a volunteer for The Big Brothers Big Sisters Program of America, and Camp Wonderlung, a camp for children with disabilities. In 2001, at age 25, Heather was diagnosed with Stage III breast cancer. Prior to beginning her course of treatment within University Hospitals of Cleveland’s, Ireland Cancer Center - which included a TRAM flap procedure, chemotherapy, radiation, whole brain radiation, med-port and Ommaya reservoir surgeries,
11-year-old shares her story battling cancer with classmates. [SEP] Megan McNeil // to tens of thousands of cancer-fighting children and youth. The lyrics include: Here’s to the fight<br> Here’s to the fighters<br> Here’s to the brave that take this on<br> Here’s to the lost souls<br> Here’s to the new hope<br> We’ll keep on keeping on<br> Megan McNeil wrote the lyrics in 2006 just 2 months after being diagnosed with cancer. The song was recorded in 2010 at Nimbus School of Recording Arts with producer Garth Richardson. The song was arranged by Ryan McMahon. A music video was shot by director Tash Baycroft. The proceeds from the single went to childhood cancer organizations.
11-year-old shares her story battling cancer with classmates. [SEP] Alberto Sardiñas // Power of Your Story is available in paperback on Amazon.com, BarnesAndNoble.com and AlbertoSardinas.com. Also available for download on Kindle, Nook and iBooks. When he was 18 years old, his mother was diagnosed with stage III breast cancer. Eight years later, in 2004, Alberto joined Romance 106.7 FM colleague Ariel Ramírez to participate in the Walt Disney World Half Marathon as part of “Team in Training”, a program that raises funds for the Leukemia & Lymphoma Society, dedicated to finding a cure for blood related cancers. In order to accomplish this goal, he abandoned a sedentary lifestyle and started training four
11-year-old shares her story battling cancer with classmates. [SEP] Jennette McCurdy // has written a total of eight pieces for the paper, on topics ranging from Shirley Temple to body shaming and the corporate culture of smoke and mirrors. She is the youngest person to have ever written a piece for "The Journal". She is also a columnist for "Seventeen" magazine. She has also written for "The Huffington Post". In 2013, McCurdy moved to Studio City, California. McCurdy composed an article titled "Off-Camera, My Mom's Fight With Cancer", which was published in the "Wall Street Journal" in June 2011. It describes in detail her mother Debra's ongoing battle with cancer and how
11-year-old shares her story battling cancer with classmates. [SEP] Achtste-groepers huilen niet // Achtste-groepers huilen niet Achtste-groepers huilen niet (English: "Eighth Graders Don't Cry", also known as "Kule Kidz Gråter Ikke", "Cool Kids Don't Cry") is a 1999 Dutch children's book by Jacques Vriens. The book was first published in September 1999 as "Achtste-groepers huilen niet" and has since been translated into Norwegian and German. Akki is a happy-go-lucky sixth grader that's obsessed with soccer, her friends, and the upcoming school trip. She's known for being tough and always up for a challenge, so when Akki is diagnosed with leukemia she refuses to let it slow her down. Her classmates are in shock,
Peru's giant jungle fish hooks conscientious gourmets. [SEP] Peruvian cuisine // fish like gamitana, sabalo ("Salminus hilarii", see "Salminus"), tucunare, boquichico, palometa, bagre, and many others including the piranha, that are prepared in variety of dishes such as "timbuche" (soup) or "patarashca" (grilled in vegetables); many types of turtles like the motelo (land turtle), and the charapa and taricaya (river turtles). Hunting turtles is prohibited in Peru, therefore turtle-based dishes are scarce and expensive and not sold "à la carte" in restaurants. Other animals include the majas, the sajino, the agouti and jungle mammals, which are called collectively "carne de monte". The Black Caiman is also considered a delicacy; but its
Peru's giant jungle fish hooks conscientious gourmets. [SEP] Pedro Miguel Schiaffano // include "kushuru" (Andean caviar), algae, aguaje (a slightly fermented palm fruit), giant snails, sacha culantro (a type of wild coriander), turmeric, achiote, guinea pig and Andean corn beer. He also uses quinoa and seasonings including cedrón, toronjil, muña, sachatomate, and aguaymanto. His menu offerings have included dishes such as: Pedro Miguel Schiaffano Pedro Miguel Schiaffino is a Peruvian chef who has worked to highlight the foods of the Amazon jungle and Amazonian cuisine. Schiaffino's restaurant in Lima, Peru is called Malabar. He is also executive chef aboard the M/V Aqua. Schiaffino is known as the "jungle chef" and has been
Peru's giant jungle fish hooks conscientious gourmets. [SEP] Pacu // the large fish of the genus "Colossoma" entered the aquarium trade in the U.S. and other countries, they were labeled pacu. In the Brazilian Amazon, the term "pacu" is generally reserved to smaller and medium-sized fish in the "Metynnis", "Mylossoma", "Mylesinus" and "Myleus" genera. "Colossoma macropomum" are known as tambaqui, whereas "Piaractus brachypomus" is known as pirapitinga. In Peru, both of the species ("Colossoma macropomum" and "Piaractus brachypomum") are called pacú and gamitana. "Piaractus mesopotamicus" of the Paraná-Paraguay basin is also called pacú in Paraguay and Argentina. Pacu, along with their piranha relatives, are a characin fish, meaning a kind
Peru's giant jungle fish hooks conscientious gourmets. [SEP] Peruvian cuisine // egg white, then cooked in the oven with potatoes covered with cheese and milk. "Tocosh" or "Togosh" is a traditional Quechua food prepared from fermented potato pulp. "Puka Pikanti": Ayacucho dish made from white potatoes, beets, yellow chili pepper, mint, and peanuts. In Peruvian restaurants, steak is commonly served with rice rather than fries. Naturally, Amazonian cuisine is made using the products local to the Amazon rainforest. Although many animal species are hunted for food in the biologically diverse jungle, standouts are the paiche (one of the world's largest freshwater fish), prepared in variety of dishes; many other types of
Peru's giant jungle fish hooks conscientious gourmets. [SEP] Pacu // ponds, anglers in Malaysia are advised to use circle hooks, size 2 or larger, and braided leather rather than nylon leaders which are easily broken by the pacu's teeth. Since pond pacu often nibble at the bait before taking it, anglers should let them swim away with the bait. If the angler simply allows the line to tighten, the circle hook will slide to the side of the fish's mouth and embed its point there. Theodore Roosevelt wrote of catching and eating pacu in his book "Through the Brazilian Wilderness". He described them as "good-sized, deep-bodied fish," and noted, "They
Peru's giant jungle fish hooks conscientious gourmets. [SEP] Salminus brasiliensis // fish-imitating flies, but the preference of the fish for big-sized flies that swim below the surface originated a specific pattern - the Andino Deceiver. Due to the Dorado's very sharp teeth, anglers use steel wire or fluorocarbon monofilament bite tippets, to avoid the fish cutting the line. Golden Dorados are excellent to eat and are often barbecued with tomatoes and bell peppers. Often utilized in the making of fish soups they are also popularly fried in South America. The Dorado has a white flaky flesh with a notably high fat content. Salminus brasiliensis Salminus brasiliensis (dourado, dorado, golden dorado, river
Peru's giant jungle fish hooks conscientious gourmets. [SEP] Megalodoras uranoscopus // Megalodoras uranoscopus The giant talking catfish or giant raphael catfish (Megalodoras uranoscopus) is a species of thorny catfish that is native to the Amazon Basin in Bolivia, Brazil, Colombia, Ecuador and Peru. This species grows to a length of SL (for a female specimen) and a maximum weight of . These fish are a component of local commercial fisheries. "M. uranoscopus" occurs in small groups and occasionally forms schools. This species inhabits rivers. "M. uranoscopus" is mainly diurnal. These fish feed on the fruits of "Licania longipetala" and "Astrocaryum jauari" and also feeds on pulmonate snails. Not commonly imported but
Peru's giant jungle fish hooks conscientious gourmets. [SEP] Wildlife of Peru // puma, jaguar and spectacled bear, that live in the canopy so jungle lodges usually construct towers to observe life above. The Pacific holds a bounty of sea bass, flounder, anchovies, tuna, crustacean (crab or lobster), shellfish and seals. The Pacific also has a lot of sharks, sperm whales, and whales. The Birds of Peru have an economic importance, because of the concentrations of guano deposits that are exported to different countries for use as fertilizer. As of March 2009 scientists have discovered two new species of beetles, "Eriopis canrash" and "Cycloneda andresii". Peru has over 500 species of mammals, of
Peru's giant jungle fish hooks conscientious gourmets. [SEP] Pacu // on the pacu caught there. In Appendix B of "Through the Brazilian Wilderness" (see also online version), Theodore Roosevelt advised, "For small fish like the pacu and piranha an ordinary bass hook will do." Concerning the pacu, he added: "A light rod and reel would be a convenience in catching the pacu. We used to fish for the latter variety in the quiet pools while allowing the canoe to drift, and always saved some of the fish as bait for the big fellows. We fished for the pacu as the native does, kneading a ball of mandioc farina with water
Peru's giant jungle fish hooks conscientious gourmets. [SEP] Central Restaurante // 2015 and 2016, 5th in 2017, and 6th in 2018. The cuisine at Central Restaurante is Contemporary Peruvian, and founder Virgilio Martínez Véliz has attempted to redefine Peruvian cuisine by introducing little-known indigenous ingredients from Peru's coastal region, the Andes highlands, and the Amazon rainforest. Examples of such ingredients include "kushuru" "(cushuro)", an edible cyanobacteria harvested in high-altitude wetlands; arracacha, a root vegetable from the Andes; and arapaima, a freshwater fish found in the Amazon River. Chef and restaurant commentator Geeta Bansal describes the cuisine as "fresh, and contemporary with beautiful plates." Owner and founder Virgilio Martínez Véliz formerly worked
The Swedish parliament rejected seven proposals in May 2017 establishing a mandatory vaccination program, enacting a ban on the practice. [SEP] Nicola Zingaretti // on the left. The campaign's main themes were social justice and fight to economic inequality. In September 2018, the Regional Council of Lazio approved a law containing urgent vaccine prevention measures that reintroduced the mandatory vaccination, keeping the number of mandatory vaccines to 12 and not allowing those who have not been vaccinated to attend school. This law was introduced by the government of Paolo Gentiloni in early 2017 and treated to be abolish by Giulia Grillo, the new Minister of Health. On 1 December 2018, Zingaretti faced a motion of no confidence proposed by the centre-right coalition, which was
The Swedish parliament rejected seven proposals in May 2017 establishing a mandatory vaccination program, enacting a ban on the practice. [SEP] Beatrice Lorenzin // Prime Minister Paolo Gentiloni, member of the same political party of Renzi(PD). In March 2017 she joined Alfano's new centrist party, Popular Alternative (AP). On 19 May 2017, the Council of Ministers, on her proposal, approved a decree law containing urgent vaccine prevention measures that reintroduces the mandatory vaccination, bringing the number of mandatory vaccines from 4 to 12 and not allowing those who have not been vaccinated to attend school. In December 2017 Alfano announced that he would not stand in the 2018 general election and Popular Alternative suffered the split of a large centre-right faction, whose members wanted
The Swedish parliament rejected seven proposals in May 2017 establishing a mandatory vaccination program, enacting a ban on the practice. [SEP] Australian Vaccination-risks Network // that Sweden had previously withdrawn pertussis vaccination in 1979 due to research showing it was ineffective, she failed to reveal that the vaccine then used in Sweden was different to the effective vaccine used in other countries such as Australia, nor did she reveal that Sweden reintroduced pertussis vaccination in 1996 and this had resulted in huge incidence reduction, with cases falling by 80-90% within 3 years. In the article, Dorey claims that "Whooping Cough is not a vaccine-preventable disease". Critics point out that evidence has shown that the acellular vaccine is 84% efficacious, and prevents 99.8% of infant hospital
The Swedish parliament rejected seven proposals in May 2017 establishing a mandatory vaccination program, enacting a ban on the practice. [SEP] Vaccination policy // in conjunction with the Spanish Medicines Agency, outlines specifications for vaccination schedules and policies and provides a history of vaccination policies implemented in the past, as well as legislature pertaining to the public currently. Spain's Constitution does not mandate vaccination, so it is voluntary unless authorities require compulsory vaccination in the case of epidemics. In 1921 vaccination became mandatory for smallpox, and in 1944 the Bases Health Act mandated compulsory vaccination for diphtheria and smallpox, but was suspended in 1979 after the elimination of the threat of an epidemic. The first systematic immunization schedule for the provinces of Spain was
The Swedish parliament rejected seven proposals in May 2017 establishing a mandatory vaccination program, enacting a ban on the practice. [SEP] Vaccination policy // 5,000 cases of measles in 2017, up from 870 in 2016, 29% of all those in the European Union. The law compelling children to have 10 vaccinations in order to enrol at state schools came into effect in March 2018 but in August 2018 the Five Star Movement pushed legislation through the Italian Senate abolishing it. It has not yet passed the Chamber of Deputies but parents do not now have to provide schools with a doctor's note to show their children have been vaccinated. According to a 2011 publication in "CMAJ": The notion of "mandatory" in Latvia differs from
The Swedish parliament rejected seven proposals in May 2017 establishing a mandatory vaccination program, enacting a ban on the practice. [SEP] Vaccination policy // Somalia in 1977. Endemic measles, mumps and rubella have been eliminated through vaccination in Finland. The WHO has targeted polio for eradication by the year 2018. Rational individuals will attempt to minimize the risk of illness, and will seek vaccination for themselves or their children if they perceive a high threat of disease and a low risk to vaccination. However, if a vaccination program successfully reduces the disease threat, it may reduce the perceived risk of disease enough so that an individual's optimal strategy is to encourage everyone but their family to be vaccinated, or (more generally) to refuse vaccination
The Swedish parliament rejected seven proposals in May 2017 establishing a mandatory vaccination program, enacting a ban on the practice. [SEP] Health in Spain // in the case of epidemics. In 1921 vaccination became mandatory for smallpox, and in 1944 the Bases Health Act mandated compulsory vaccination for diphtheria and smallpox, but was suspended in 1979 after the elimination of the threat of an epidemic. The first systematic immunization schedule for the provinces of Spain was established in 1975 and has continuously been updated by each autonomous community in regard to doses at certain ages and recommendation of additional vaccine not proposed in the schedule. The 2015 schedule proposed the newest change with the inclusion of pneumococcal vaccine for children under 12 months. For 2016,
The Swedish parliament rejected seven proposals in May 2017 establishing a mandatory vaccination program, enacting a ban on the practice. [SEP] Health in Spain // review data on vaccine preventable diseases and proposes recommendations for policies. No additional groups outside the government propose recommendations. Recommendations must be approved by the Commission of Public Health and then by the Inter-Territorial Council, at which point they are incorporated into the National Immunization Schedule. The Spanish Association of Pediatrics, in conjunction with the Spanish Medicines Agency, outlines specifications for vaccination schedules and policies and provides a history of vaccination policies implemented in the past, as well as legislature pertaining to the public currently. Spain's Constitution does not mandate vaccination, so it is voluntary unless authorities require compulsory vaccination
The Swedish parliament rejected seven proposals in May 2017 establishing a mandatory vaccination program, enacting a ban on the practice. [SEP] Vaccination policy // de Janeiro, Brazil, following an urban renewal program that displaced many poor, a government program of mandatory smallpox vaccination triggered the Vaccine Revolt, several days of rioting with considerable property damage and a number of deaths. Compulsory vaccination is a difficult policy issue, requiring authorities to balance public health with individual liberty: "Vaccination is unique among de facto mandatory requirements in the modern era, requiring individuals to accept the injection of a medicine or medicinal agent into their bodies, and it has provoked a spirited opposition. This opposition began with the first vaccinations, has not ceased, and probably never will.
The Swedish parliament rejected seven proposals in May 2017 establishing a mandatory vaccination program, enacting a ban on the practice. [SEP] Health in Italy // not comply with the proposed regulations. There were 5,000 cases of measles in 2017, up from 870 in 2016, 29% of all those in the European Union. The law compelling children to have 10 vaccinations in order to enrol at state schools came into effect in March 2018 but in August 2018 the Five Star Movement pushed legislation through the Italian Senate abolishing it. It has not yet passed the Chamber of Deputies but parents do not now have to provide schools with a doctor's note to show their children have been vaccinated. Smoking in Italy has decreased greatly in
Somali Muslim refugees "took over" the small town of Shelbyville, Tennessee and targeted local Christians with "violent Islamic crimes". [SEP] Islamic Center of Murfreesboro // the mosque's construction. The litigation was spearheaded by lobbyist Laurie Cardoza-Moore, who demanded that the Rutherford County sheriff investigate a supposed conspiracy linking the mosque with Islamic militants in Somalia and Gaza. She said to a Christian television station that the mosque was part of a plot to take over Middle Tennessee. Cardoza-Moore led a group called Proclaiming Justice To The Nation (PJTN), which funded the lawsuit via donations. Some of the donors were called as witnesses in the hearing. One witness admitted that PJTN had paid him thousands of dollars to read to the court extracts from anti-Muslim Internet
Somali Muslim refugees "took over" the small town of Shelbyville, Tennessee and targeted local Christians with "violent Islamic crimes". [SEP] 2015 Chattanooga shootings // the shootings. Paul Galloway, representing the American Muslim Advisory Council, said that Muslims in Tennessee "express our deepest condolences to the victims and their families. Terrorists seek to divide our society, and we pray that all Americans will stand together united against their wanton violence and hatred." The National Executive Director of Council on American–Islamic Relations, Nihad Awad, said, "Such inexcusable acts of violence must be repudiated by Americans of all faiths and backgrounds." The National Vice-President of the Ahmadiyya Muslim Community USA stated, "While we do not yet know what motivated this man, we urge calm, defer to authorities
Somali Muslim refugees "took over" the small town of Shelbyville, Tennessee and targeted local Christians with "violent Islamic crimes". [SEP] Islamic Center of Murfreesboro // thousands and thousands of Muslims into that relatively rural area the next thing you know they're going to be taking over the city council." Murfreesboro's mayor, Ernest Burgess, called Robertson's claims "so ridiculous they do not deserve a response." Opposition was also fanned by a local newspaper, the ultra-conservative "Rutherford Reader", which published numerous anti-Islamic articles. After protests from readers over these, some of its advertisers boycotted the newspaper. As the barrage of criticism from right-wingers continued, the ICM received a series of threatening and offensive anonymous telephone messages. Reviewing the controversy, the Nashville daily newspaper "The Tennessean" noted that
Somali Muslim refugees "took over" the small town of Shelbyville, Tennessee and targeted local Christians with "violent Islamic crimes". [SEP] Islamic Center of Murfreesboro // defendant, its members were unable to defend themselves in court against such accusations. If the case went against them, they would be forced to seek fresh approval in a climate that had become intensely hostile towards them. Saleh Sbenaty, a Syrian-born spokesman for the ICM, called the attacks "draining" and said that he had "left my country over 30 years ago to get my freedom over here, and now that's being threatened. My First Amendment rights are under fire." The issue of whether adequate notice had been given was complicated by the fact that Tennessee law did not define what
Somali Muslim refugees "took over" the small town of Shelbyville, Tennessee and targeted local Christians with "violent Islamic crimes". [SEP] Islamic Center of Murfreesboro // arrival of refugees from Somalia and Kurds from Iraq, who were resettled there by the federal government upon fleeing the repression of Saddam Hussein after the first Gulf War. Middle Tennessee now has the largest population of Iraqi Kurds in the United States. In addition, a significant number of foreign-born Muslims have moved to the area to study at Vanderbilt University or Middle Tennessee State University. Established in 1982, the Islamic Center of Murfreesboro (ICM) formerly occupied a building of located on Middle Tennessee Boulevard near Middle Tennessee State University. Its congregation consists of about 250-300 local families and 400-500
Somali Muslim refugees "took over" the small town of Shelbyville, Tennessee and targeted local Christians with "violent Islamic crimes". [SEP] Christian terrorism // targeting an apartment complex home to a mosque and many Muslim immigrants from Somalia. Stein allegedly told the agent the trio would use ammonium nitrate to make the bombs, a method used in 1995 by Oklahoma City bomber Timothy McVeigh. Dr. John Birky, who works with the Somali community, told the AP about 300 to 500 Somali refugees resided in the area where the attacks were planned. Christian Identity is a loosely affiliated global group of churches and individuals devoted to a racialized theology which asserts that Northern European whites are the direct descendants of the lost tribes of Israel,
Somali Muslim refugees "took over" the small town of Shelbyville, Tennessee and targeted local Christians with "violent Islamic crimes". [SEP] Islamic Center of Murfreesboro // to keep a mosque out of their neighborhood. They really feel that Islam is a threat to America and American values." Essam Fathy, an ICM member, said: "We have nothing to hide. We do not have a hidden agenda. We're not affiliated with anyone. Where is the tolerance?" The mosque's imam, Ossama Bahloul, said that he had told a child that the hatred faced by the center was "just a misunderstanding, miscommunication. I told him to love the people because one day they can love you, too." The controversy gained national attention when Lou Ann Zelenik, a Tennessee Republican Party
Somali Muslim refugees "took over" the small town of Shelbyville, Tennessee and targeted local Christians with "violent Islamic crimes". [SEP] Islamic Center of Murfreesboro // fear that Christianity was losing its grip on a Bible Belt heartland, a "swell of fear and hatred" prompted by terrorist attacks, and the insecurity of the worst economic climate since the Great Depression. In past slumps, Chinese immigrants had been ostracized for being non-Christians, Catholics had been ostracized for being "the wrong kind of Christians", and this time Muslims were suffering the brunt of prejudice. Rabbi Rami Shapiro noted that "Muslims are in the way of God's plan" for some anti-Muslim Christian Zionists, who believe that Muslims in Iran and Iraq will be forced out of their homes by
Somali Muslim refugees "took over" the small town of Shelbyville, Tennessee and targeted local Christians with "violent Islamic crimes". [SEP] Islamic Center of Murfreesboro // supporting such an organization. The law was passed, but the state legislature took out direct references to Sharia and Islam. Hedy Weinburg of the American Civil Liberties Union's Tennessee branch views the controversy as part of a trend; she told "The American Prospect" that "[y]ou don't have to dig too deep to see and hear the very rampant xenophobia and anti-Muslim voices." In mid-July 2010, supporters and opponents of the mosque organized rival marches to the Rutherford County courthouse. Around 800 people turned up, with about the same number on either side. Middle Tennesseans for Religious Freedom promoted slogans such
Somali Muslim refugees "took over" the small town of Shelbyville, Tennessee and targeted local Christians with "violent Islamic crimes". [SEP] Islamic Center of Murfreesboro // Israeli expansion that will pave the way for the Second Coming of Jesus. Professor Ron Messier, who teaches Islamic studies and lives in Murfreesboro, commented: "It's happened because this is an election year and I think there were some political candidates who thought that, here in Middle Tennessee, a lot of people have very right leanings and they could gain some political leverage by promoting fear about people who have been here for 20 years or more without ever being an issue." The Planning Commission gave final approval to the building plans in early August 2010 and on August 20,
Crossroads GPS Says Joe Sestak "voted to gut Medicare ... reducing benefits for 854,489 seniors" and jeopardizing "access to care for millions. [SEP] Healthcare rationing in the United States // Klein described in the "Washington Post" how polls indicate senior citizens are increasingly resistant to healthcare reform because of concerns about cuts to the existing Medicare program that may be required to fund it. That is creating an unusual and potent political alliance, with Republicans arguing to protect the existing Medicare program although they historically opposed that and other major entitlement programs. The CBO scoring of the proposed H.R. 3200 (America's Affordable Health Choices Act of 2009) included $219 billion in savings over 10 years, some of which would come from Medicare changes. A concept called "quality-adjusted life year" (QALY
Crossroads GPS Says Joe Sestak "voted to gut Medicare ... reducing benefits for 854,489 seniors" and jeopardizing "access to care for millions. [SEP] David McKinley // He explained "As it relates to the Medicare, I applaud what Paul Ryan was trying to do, because we need to have an adult conversation about it. The Congressional Budget Office determined that some of the out-of-pocket costs could double for seniors and that sent up a red flag for me that we need to look at it." In October 2011, he was the only Republican to vote against all three of the trade deals passed by Congress: Panama, Colombia, and South Korea. He said “Free trade deals like NAFTA and CAFTA have been nothing more than broken promises that
Crossroads GPS Says Joe Sestak "voted to gut Medicare ... reducing benefits for 854,489 seniors" and jeopardizing "access to care for millions. [SEP] Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act // votes from "yea" to "nay". The bill passed 220-215. The Democrats cried foul, and Bill Thomas, the Republican chairman of the Ways and Means committee, challenged the result in a gesture to satisfy the concerns of the minority. He subsequently voted to table his own challenge; the tally to table was 210 ayes, 193 noes. The Senate's consideration of the conference report was somewhat less heated, as cloture on it was invoked by a vote of 70-29. However, a budget point of order raised by Tom Daschle, and voted on. As 60 votes were necessary to override it, the challenge
Crossroads GPS Says Joe Sestak "voted to gut Medicare ... reducing benefits for 854,489 seniors" and jeopardizing "access to care for millions. [SEP] Protecting Access to Medicare Act of 2014 // Nancy Pelosi said that she supported the bill because she thought Republicans would use the situation, if the Medicare cuts went into effect, to attack Obamacare and because she didn't want seniors to worry about their access to their doctors. Sponsor of the bill Rep. Joe Pitts (R-PA) said he still supports a permanent fix and is "sponsoring this bill today because it is my earnest hope that this is the last patch we will have to pass." The bill was originally scheduled to be considered under a suspension of the rules, a procedure that would have required the bill
Crossroads GPS Says Joe Sestak "voted to gut Medicare ... reducing benefits for 854,489 seniors" and jeopardizing "access to care for millions. [SEP] 2006 Ohio's 2nd congressional district election // reform, including a comprehensive Medicare prescription drug benefit to give America's seniors access to affordable prescription drugs. Now that the program is off the ground, the evidence is in and we have much to celebrate: the Medicare prescription drug benefit is working, and seniors are saving money. Over 90 percent of all Medicare beneficiaries now have drug coverage - that's 38 million seniors. As of this summer in Ohio, 1.4 million more seniors have prescription drug coverage than before the benefit began." Wulsin ran a television advertisement using the widely broadcast footage of Schmidt criticizing Democratic Representative John Murtha, a
Crossroads GPS Says Joe Sestak "voted to gut Medicare ... reducing benefits for 854,489 seniors" and jeopardizing "access to care for millions. [SEP] Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act // approval. The bill came to a vote at 3 a.m. on November 22. After 45 minutes, the bill was losing, 219-215, with David Wu (D-OR-1) not voting. Speaker Dennis Hastert and Majority Leader Tom DeLay sought to convince some of dissenting Republicans to switch their votes, as they had in June. Istook, who had always been a wavering vote, consented quickly, producing a 218-216 tally. In a highly unusual move, the House leadership held the vote open for hours as they sought two more votes. Then-Representative Nick Smith (R-MI) claimed he was offered campaign funds for his son, who was
Crossroads GPS Says Joe Sestak "voted to gut Medicare ... reducing benefits for 854,489 seniors" and jeopardizing "access to care for millions. [SEP] The Path to Prosperity // to Politico, most polls are unfavorable towards the plan. According to liberal columnist Ezra Klein when CBO estimates of benefit cuts are factored in, 80 percent or more of Americans oppose the plan. In June 2011, a CNN/ORC poll found that 58 percent of Americans opposed the idea while 35 supported. Among seniors, 74 percent opposed the plan. In the same month a Pew Research poll surveyed support for changing Medicare and found that 41 percent of Americans opposed it while 36 percent supported it. The Pew poll found that the more Democrats and Independents were made aware of the
Crossroads GPS Says Joe Sestak "voted to gut Medicare ... reducing benefits for 854,489 seniors" and jeopardizing "access to care for millions. [SEP] Accountable care organization // Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act. Medicare approved 32 Pioneer accountable care organizations in December 2011; of which 19 remained active through 2015. As of April 2015, Medicare had approved 404 Medicare Shared Savings Program (MSSP) ACOs, covering over 7.3 million beneficiaries in 49 states. For the 2014 reporting period, MSSP ACOs saved a combined $338 million, or $63 per beneficiary. Mark McClellan, Elliott Fisher and others defined three core accountable care organization principles: The model places financial responsibility on providers in hopes of improving care management and limiting unnecessary expenditures, while providing patients freedom to select their medical service
Crossroads GPS Says Joe Sestak "voted to gut Medicare ... reducing benefits for 854,489 seniors" and jeopardizing "access to care for millions. [SEP] Michael F. Doyle // with terrorists. This small group of terrorists have made it impossible to spend any money". On October 16, 2012, Doyle released a statement criticizing the Republican budget introduced by Paul Ryan, saying that it would "be devastating for seniors in Pittsburgh." According to his report, this budget would eliminate new preventive care benefits for 113,000 Medicare beneficiaries in the district, as well as other cuts to Medicaid affordable housing, and food stamps. "That's why I voted against the Ryan budget when it was considered by Congress earlier this year, and why I am fighting hard to oppose Congressional Republicans' misguided
Crossroads GPS Says Joe Sestak "voted to gut Medicare ... reducing benefits for 854,489 seniors" and jeopardizing "access to care for millions. [SEP] Joe Sestak // and the Safe Climate Act. Sestak supports gun control and has a 100 percent rating from the Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence and an F rating from the National Rifle Association. Sestak has called for reinstatement of the federal ban on assault weapons. Sestak credits his support for health care reform as "payback" to the country that gave him and his family health care while he was in the Navy (the TRICARE program), especially for successfully treating his daughter's brain tumor. He supports state-provided preventive care and voted for the CHAMP Act. Sestak originally co-sponsored the Medicare Prescription Drug
UK faces new legal action over air quality. [SEP] Air pollution // on the UK to protect its citizens from dangerous levels of air pollution, furthermore superseding national interests with those of the citizen. In 2010, the European Commission (EC) threatened the UK with legal action against the successive breaching of PM10 limit values. The UK government has identified that if fines are imposed, they could cost the nation upwards of £300 million per year. In March 2011, the Greater London Built-up Area remains the only UK region in breach of the EC's limit values, and has been given 3 months to implement an emergency action plan aimed at meeting the EU
UK faces new legal action over air quality. [SEP] Air pollution in the United Kingdom // England warned of 'very high' air pollution in April 2014. High levels of pollution in London and other parts of the south east of England may at worst days cause sore eyes and sore throats and experts warned those with heart conditions and asthma to stay inside. On 29 April 2015, the UK Supreme Court ruled that the government must take immediate action to cut air pollution, following a case brought by environmental lawyers at ClientEarth. On 26 July 2017, the British government announced plans to ban the sale of new petrol and diesel cars in Britain by 2040. This
UK faces new legal action over air quality. [SEP] Zemiology // Given the harm caused by air pollution the UK has a poor record in responding to air pollution. The European Union is currently considering prosecuting the British government for breaching air pollution laws. Air pollution near in a number of locations has been recorded at twice the UN's World Health Organization maximum recommended level, which has consequently infringed EU air quality laws. Moreover, the Environment Agency, the UK's principal environmental regulator, has what some may consider to be a poor record of prosecuting infringements of environmental standards. For example, there were 29,627 "substantiated" pollution incidents in 2003, of which 1337
UK faces new legal action over air quality. [SEP] Environmental Protection UK // in the UK. The Government’s Committee on the Medical Effects of Air Pollution (COMEAP) estimates that approximately 24,000 deaths per year are advanced due to the effects of “normal” UK concentrations of air pollution. In hot years such as 2003 this figure may have been even larger. EPUK founded and launched the Healthy Air Campaign in 2011 - now being co-ordinated by Client Earth. Air pollution remains a significant health threat - with the UK facing the threat of fines from the EU for breaching air quality guidelines - so the work of the EPUK air quality committee remains crucial.
UK faces new legal action over air quality. [SEP] Environmental Protection UK // two of the Society’s Vice-Presidents (Lord Lewis of Newnham and Lord Nathan) an amendment to the Bill was introduced in the House of Lords (where the Bill began its life) to add what is now Part IV of the Act, Air Quality. The Society assisted in the drafting of the legislation through its Air Quality Committee, set up in 1992 to bring together air quality experts - including local authority officers, consultancy and academia. Air Quality Since the Act received its Royal Assent in 1995 the Society, through the Air Quality Committee, has been instrumental in producing supplementary guidance documents
UK faces new legal action over air quality. [SEP] Air pollution in the United Kingdom // follows a similar announcement by the French government on 6 July 2017. On 25 July 2017, BMW announced that it would start production of an all-electric version of the Mini at its plant in Cowley, Oxfordshire, in 2019. Volvo had earlier announced that all its new cars from 2019 would be electric or hybrid. Air pollution in the United Kingdom Air pollution in the United Kingdom has long been considered a significant health issue. Many areas, including major cities like London are found to be significantly and regularly above legal and recommended levels. Air pollution in the UK is a
UK faces new legal action over air quality. [SEP] Air pollution in the United Kingdom // generation. If a local authority finds an area where the targets are not likely to be met, it must declare it an Air Quality Management Area (AQMA) and produce a Local Air Quality Action Plan to improve the air quality. DEFRA has published a list of local authorities with AQMAs. The action plan may include measures for idle reduction of vehicle engines. An example is the Metropolitan Borough of Dudley. A few cities have designated low-emission zones. The UK has established an air quality network where levels of the key air pollutants are published by monitoring centres. Air quality in
UK faces new legal action over air quality. [SEP] Environment of the European Union // entered into force on 11 June 2008. Individual citizens can force their local councils to tackle air pollution, following an important ruling in July 2009 from the European Court of Justice (ECJ). The EU’s court was asked to judge the case of a resident of Munich, Dieter Janecek, who said that under the 1996 EU Air Quality Directive (Council Directive 96/62/EC of 27 September 1996 on ambient air quality assessment and management ) the Munich authorities were obliged to take action to stop pollution exceeding specified targets. Janecek then took his case to the ECJ, whose judges said European citizens
UK faces new legal action over air quality. [SEP] James Thornton (environmentalist) // it was breaching legal limits for air pollution. In 2012 ClientEarth’s amicus curiae (friends of the court) brief in the cases challenging the authority of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to regulate carbon pollution was the first time that European groups have entered a US environmental case this way. Thornton calls the Common Fisheries Policy 'the worst law in the world' and is working with the Fish Fight campaign of TV chef Hugh Fearnley-Whittingstall to make it workable. He also works to enforce the Aarhus Convention, working to give citizens access to courts in order to seek environmental justice. Thornton
UK faces new legal action over air quality. [SEP] Air pollution in the United Kingdom // the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA), are mostly aimed at local government representatives responsible for the management of air quality in cities, where air quality management is the most urgent. In 2017, research by the Lancet Countdown on Health and Climate Change and the Royal College of Physicians revealed that air pollution levels in 44 cities in the UK are above the recommended World Health Organization guidelines. The UK government has plans to improve pollution due to traffic, and is banning fossil fuel cars by 2040, and is phasing out the use of coal in electrical power
The senate voted 51-48 to repeal the Affordable Care Act on 12 January 2017. [SEP] 2017 Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act replacement proposals // Sean Spicer would "ease the burden of Obamacare as we transition from repeal and replace". Spicer would not elaborate further when asked for more details. On January 12, 2017, the Senate voted 51 to 48 to pass an FY2017 budget resolution, S.Con.Res. 3, that contained language allowing the repeal of the Affordable Care Act through the budget reconciliation process, which disallows a filibuster in the Senate. In spite of efforts during the vote-a-rama (a proceeding in which each amendment was considered and voted upon for about 10 minutes each until all 160 were completed) that continued into the early hours
The senate voted 51-48 to repeal the Affordable Care Act on 12 January 2017. [SEP] 2017 Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act replacement proposals // on the healthcare bill, 51-50 with Vice President Mike Pence breaking the tie. The same day, the bill was soundly defeated 43-57, with nine Republicans defecting and no Democrats or Independents voting for the bill. As the effort to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act was stalled, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell scheduled a vote on a partial-repeal amendment. This too was defeated, 45-55, with 7 Republicans defecting. Subsequently a "skinny repeal" of the healthcare bill was voted on in the early hours of July 28. The decisive vote against their own party's bill was cast by Senators John
The senate voted 51-48 to repeal the Affordable Care Act on 12 January 2017. [SEP] Efforts to repeal the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act // bills under budget reconciliation. Rand Paul and John McCain indicated that they would vote against the bill. Ultimately, McConnell announced on September 26th that the Senate would not vote on the Graham-Cassidy bill. Below is a summary of number of votes taken in the House of Representatives to repeal the Affordable Care Act either in full or in part through March 2014. The Tuesday, February 2, 2016 vote, with a tally of 241–186, was the 63rd attempt by the House. After the July 27, 2017 vote on the Health Care Freedom Act, Newsweek "found at least 70 Republican-led attempts to
The senate voted 51-48 to repeal the Affordable Care Act on 12 January 2017. [SEP] American Health Care Act of 2017 // returned to the calendar after the Senate rejected several amendments, including , the "Skinny Repeal" package offered by Sen. Mitch McConnell, which failed on a 49–51 vote. Sens. John McCain, Susan Collins, and Lisa Murkowski were the only Republicans to vote against the measure. On September 13, 2017, Senators Graham, Cassidy, Heller, and Johnson released a draft amendment to the bill that "repeals the structure and architecture of Obamacare and replaces it with a block grant given annually to states". However, it was not voted upon due to lack of support. On October 12, 2017, due to this failure of
The senate voted 51-48 to repeal the Affordable Care Act on 12 January 2017. [SEP] Efforts to repeal the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act // deliberation. The Senate indicated they would write their own version of the bill, instead of voting on the House version. On June 22, the Better Care Reconciliation Act of 2017 was unveiled. On July 25, 2017, the United States Senate voted to proceed to debate on the American Health Care Act. The Senate voted 50-50, largely along party lines with the Republicans for and the Democrats against proceeding, requiring Vice President Pence to cast the tie-breaking vote. Republican Senators Susan Collins of Maine and Lisa Murkowski of Alaska crossed the aisle to vote against the motion. On July 27, 2017,
The senate voted 51-48 to repeal the Affordable Care Act on 12 January 2017. [SEP] Efforts to repeal the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act // would not elaborate further when asked for more details. On March 6, 2017, House Republicans announced their replacement for the ACA, the American Health Care Act. The bill was withdrawn on March 24, 2017 after it was certain that the House would fail to garner enough votes to pass it. The result was in-fighting within the Republican Party. On May 4, 2017, the United States House of Representatives voted to pass the American Health Care Act (and thereby repeal most of the Affordable Care Act) by a narrow margin of 217 to 213, sending the bill to the Senate for
The senate voted 51-48 to repeal the Affordable Care Act on 12 January 2017. [SEP] Jimmy Kimmel test // he needed to read the full text of the bill. Multiple attempts to pass a Senate repeal bill in June and July 2017 failed. Senate Republicans faced a September 30, 2017 deadline in order to pass an Affordable Care Act repeal using reconciliation, a process that would permit the Senate to pass legislation with only 51 votes. On September 13, Cassidy and Sen. Lindsey Graham jointly proposed a new repeal bill, referred to as the Cassidy-Graham bill. The Cassidy-Graham proposal would create a waiver system allowing states to opt out of Affordable Care Act requirements, which could result in patients
The senate voted 51-48 to repeal the Affordable Care Act on 12 January 2017. [SEP] Efforts to repeal the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act // uninsured in the first year after the repeal and by 2026, the number would rise to 32 million. For those who are not part of a group plan, premiums would increase by up to 25% in the first year, and by 2026 would double. On January 12, 2017, the Senate voted 51 to 48 to pass an FY2017 budget resolution, S.Con.Res. 3, that contained language allowing the repeal of the Affordable Care Act through the budget reconciliation process, which disallows a filibuster in the Senate. In spite of efforts during the vote-a-rama (a proceeding in which each amendment was considered
The senate voted 51-48 to repeal the Affordable Care Act on 12 January 2017. [SEP] Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act // blueprint" which would allow Republicans to repeal parts of the law "without threat of a Democratic filibuster." The plan, which passed 51–48, is a budget blueprint named by Senate Republicans the "Obamacare 'repeal resolution. Democrats opposing the resolution staged a protest during the vote. House Republicans announced their replacement for the ACA, the American Health Care Act, on March 6, 2017. On March 24, 2017 the effort, led by Paul Ryan and Donald Trump, to repeal and replace the ACA failed amid a revolt among Republican representatives. May 4, 2017, the United States House of Representatives voted to pass the
The senate voted 51-48 to repeal the Affordable Care Act on 12 January 2017. [SEP] Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act // support of Stupak and members of his group and assured the bill's passage. The House passed the Senate bill with a 219–212 vote on March 21, 2010, with 34 Democrats and all 178 Republicans voting against it. The next day, Republicans introduced legislation to repeal the bill. Obama signed ACA into law on March 23, 2010. Since passage, Republicans have voted to repeal all or parts of the Affordable Care Act over sixty times; no such attempt by Republicans has been successful. The amendment bill, The Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act, cleared the House on March 21; the Senate
Colonoscopies Miss Many Cancers, Study Finds [SEP] Colorectal cancer // thus prevent them from turning into cancer. Screening has the potential to reduce colorectal cancer deaths by 60%. The three main screening tests are colonoscopy, fecal occult blood testing, and flexible sigmoidoscopy. Of the three, only sigmoidoscopy cannot screen the right side of the colon where 42% of cancers are found. Flexible sigmoidoscopy, however, has the best evidence for decreasing the risk of death from any cause. Fecal occult blood testing (FOBT) of the stool is typically recommended every two years and can be either guaiac-based or immunochemical. If abnormal FOBT results are found, participants are typically referred for a
Colonoscopies Miss Many Cancers, Study Finds [SEP] Colorectal cancer // follow-up colonoscopy examination. Yearly to every two year FOBT screening reduces colorectal cancer deaths by 16% and among those participating in screening colorectal cancer deaths can be reduced up to 23%, although it has not been proven to reduce all-cause mortality. Immunochemical tests are accurate and do not require dietary or medication changes before testing. Other options include virtual colonoscopy and stool DNA screening testing (FIT-DNA). Virtual colonoscopy via a CT scan appears as good as standard colonoscopy for detecting cancers and large adenomas but is expensive, associated with radiation exposure, and cannot remove any detected abnormal growths like standard
Colonoscopies Miss Many Cancers, Study Finds [SEP] Wendy Atkin // estimated to prevent 5,000 cancer diagnoses and 3,000 deaths a year. They found an increased risk in bowel polyps from eating red meat. They examined the incidence and mortality for the following 17 years, finding that people involved in the screening had a 41 % lower mortality. The bowel cancer screening test "BowelScope" can prevent 35 % of bowel cancers. Atkin went on to create a Special Interest Group (SIG) on Gastrointestinal and Abdominal Radiologists 1 (SIGGAR1), which analysed the effectiveness of virtual colonoscopy. They found it was less invasive and more effective at finding precancerous polyps and bowel cancer.
Colonoscopies Miss Many Cancers, Study Finds [SEP] Colonoscopy // one of these testing schedules for screening to find colon polyps and/or cancer: In the United States, Medicare insurance covers the following colorectal-cancer screening tests: About 1 in 200 people who undergo a colonoscopy experience a serious complication. Perforation of the colon occurs in about 1 in 2000 procedures, bleeding in 2.6 per 1000, and death in 3 per 100,000, with an overall risk of serious complications of 0.35%. In some low-risk populations screening by colonoscopy in the absence of symptoms does not outweigh the risks of the procedure. For example, the odds of developing colorectal cancer between the ages
Colonoscopies Miss Many Cancers, Study Finds [SEP] Colorectal cancer // then followed by medical imaging to determine if the disease has spread. Screening is effective for preventing and decreasing deaths from colorectal cancer. Screening, by one of a number of methods, is recommended starting from the age of 50 to 75. During colonoscopy, small polyps may be removed if found. If a large polyp or tumor is found, a biopsy may be performed to check if it is cancerous. Aspirin and other non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs decrease the risk. Their general use is not recommended for this purpose, however, due to side effects. Treatments used for colorectal cancer may include some
Colonoscopies Miss Many Cancers, Study Finds [SEP] Sigmoidoscopy // colon-cancer mortality was reduced by 43% (thus preventing one cancer per 200 screenings, and one cancer death per 500 screenings). The study also showed that the effect was persistent—a single sigmoidoscopy reduced cancer rates for the length of the 11 year study. Although generally considered quite safe, sigmoidoscopy does carry the very rare possibility of tearing of the intestinal wall by the instrument, which could require immediate surgery to repair the tear; in addition, removal of a polyp may sometimes lead to localized bleeding which is resistant to cauterization by the instrument and must be stopped by surgical intervention. Sigmoidoscopy
Colonoscopies Miss Many Cancers, Study Finds [SEP] Sigmoidoscopy // Corresponding reductions in mortality among attenders (that is, the people actually screened, instead of just the ones in the group to be screened—this data set may include selection bias) were 59% and 76%, both statistically significant compared with the control group[.] The study saw no detectable difference in all-cause mortality. A 2010 British study showed sigmoidoscopy reduced "overall colorectal cancer incidence and mortality by 31 percent", and "incidence of cancer in just the lower part of the colon (or distal colon) was reduced by approximately 50 percent for those who underwent screening compared with those in the control group." Overall
Colonoscopies Miss Many Cancers, Study Finds [SEP] Colorectal cancer // If a villous polyp, a polyp >1 centimeter or high grade dysplasia is found, it can be repeated after 3 years, then every 5 years. For other abnormalities, the colonoscopy can be repeated after 1 year. Routine PET or ultrasound scanning, chest X-rays, complete blood count or liver function tests are not recommended. A 2016 systematic review concluded that more intense surveillance and close follow-up does not provide additional survival benefits in non-metastatic colorectal cancers. Exercise may be recommended in the future as secondary therapy to cancer survivors. In epidemiological studies, exercise may decrease colorectal cancer-specific mortality and all-cause mortality.
Colonoscopies Miss Many Cancers, Study Finds [SEP] Wendy Atkin // ultimately, aims to reduce the number of people who die from the disease. Their 2010 paper outlining the results of the "UK Flexible Sigmoidoscopy Screening Trial" was the most frequently cited paper in The Lancet that year. The landmark study was a randomised controlled trial of almost 400,000 adults across 14 areas in the UK. If there were any polyps, people were referred for a colonoscopy. The strategy was rolled out by the UK National Screening Committee in 2011 and achieved complete population coverage in 2016. This was achieved with a £60 million investment from the UK government. It is
Colonoscopies Miss Many Cancers, Study Finds [SEP] Colorectal cancer // rectal cancer if the rectum remains. Most deaths due to colon cancer are associated with metastatic disease. A gene that appears to contribute to the potential for metastatic disease, metastasis associated in colon cancer 1 ("MACC1"), has been isolated. It is a transcriptional factor that influences the expression of hepatocyte growth factor. This gene is associated with the proliferation, invasion and scattering of colon cancer cells in cell culture, and tumor growth and metastasis in mice. MACC1 may be a potential target for cancer intervention, but this possibility needs to be confirmed with clinical studies. Epigenetic factors, such as abnormal
UK authorities release confiscated cannabis after boy hospitalized. [SEP] Cannabis in the United Kingdom // law. This led to increased public outcry, particularly in the case of Billy Caldwell who was hospitalised with life-threatening seizures after his medication was confiscated by authorities. On 20 June 2018, Health Secretary Jeremy Hunt announced his support for the medical use of cannabis and that a review would be undertaken to study changes to the law. On 26 July 2018, Home Secretary Sajid Javid announced that cannabis products would be made legal for patients with an "exceptional clinical need", and that cannabis would be moved from a Schedule I classification to Schedule 2. On 11 October the new provisions
UK authorities release confiscated cannabis after boy hospitalized. [SEP] Cannabis classification in the United Kingdom // reclassification of cannabis to class C had the desired effect, with arrests for cannabis possession falling by one third in the first year following, saving an estimated 199,000 police hours. Early in January 2006 Charles Clarke, the Home Secretary, said that on the basis of advice from the Advisory Council, a decision was made not to return cannabis to class B. However, during Prime Minister's Questions on 18 July 2007, Prime Minister Gordon Brown announced that the Home Secretary, Jacqui Smith, was reviewing again whether to return cannabis to class B status. On 7 May 2008, Smith confirmed that cannabis
UK authorities release confiscated cannabis after boy hospitalized. [SEP] Cannabis classification in the United Kingdom // July 2018. The first emergency licence for cannabis oil was granted on 18 June 2018. The concession came after an epileptic child became severely ill after having his cannabis confiscated. Cannabis classification in the United Kingdom Cannabis classification in the United Kingdom refers to the class of drugs, as determined by the Misuse of Drugs Act 1971, that cannabis is placed in. Between 1928 and 2004 and since 2009, it has been classified as a class B drug. From 2004 to 2009, it was in class C (less harmful). As Home Secretary in Tony Blair's Labour government, David Blunkett announced
UK authorities release confiscated cannabis after boy hospitalized. [SEP] Brixton // reclassified in Britain from a class B down to a class C drug in early 2004. In January 2009 the UK government reclassified cannabis back to a class B drug. In 2001 Brixton became subject of newspaper headlines due to the implementation of a pilot cannabis programme, also known as the "softly softly" approach, initiated by Brian Paddick, then Police Commander for the London Borough of Lambeth. Police officers were instructed not to arrest or charge people who were found to be in possession of cannabis. They were instead to issue on-the-spot warnings and confiscate the drugs. Although Paddick is
UK authorities release confiscated cannabis after boy hospitalized. [SEP] Conscription in South Korea // He was subsequently transferred to a different police division to await notice of prosecution, and was suspended from police duty pending verdict on his case. A few days after the announcement, T.O.P was found unconscious in police barracks due to a suspected anti-anxiety medicine overdose of prescribed benzodiazepine, and was hospitalized. On June 8, T.O.P's mother confirmed that her son had opened his eyes and was recovering. On June 29, T.O.P faced his first trial for the marijuana usage charges at the Seoul Central District Court. He pleaded guilty to the charges against him and admitted that he did smoke
UK authorities release confiscated cannabis after boy hospitalized. [SEP] Cannabis in the United Kingdom // convicted at a disproportional rate to white people. Specifically black and Asian people were convicted of cannabis possession at 11.8 and 2.4 times the rate of white people, despite lower self-reported use in these communities. Medical use of cannabis was legalised in the UK on 1 November 2018. after the cases of two epileptic children who benefited from using cannabis brought increased public attention to the issue. The children (Billy Caldwell, 12, and Alfie Dingley, 6) both experienced significant improvement in their conditions after they began using cannabis – but were initially not allowed to continue their treatment under UK
UK authorities release confiscated cannabis after boy hospitalized. [SEP] King's Ely // from a hotel in Essex three days later; it is thought the boy was about to be drowned in the River Thames, as a 20 ft length of cable, ropes ties, handcuffs and a 56 lb weight were found in the gang's vehicle. The parents of the boy received mobile phone calls demanding £250,000, which the police were able to trace. The men were found guilty of false imprisonment and blackmail and sentenced to custodial terms of 11–12 years. In 2006, five pupils were expelled, and three were suspended for smoking cannabis on school premises. The parents of one student
UK authorities release confiscated cannabis after boy hospitalized. [SEP] Kid Cannabis // prison for 12 years. He was released early and is currently living in Coeur d’Alene. Some scenes were shot in a real-life marijuana-growing facility in Canada, to which the crew was driven in a van with blacked-out windows. On October 5, 2014 rapper Andrew Canton released a music video of the movie on his YouTube page. The film holds a 71% rating on Rotten Tomatoes based on 7 reviews. It also has a rating of 54 on Metacritic, indicating "average or mixed reviews." Box Office Mojo lists total domestic theater sales, in one theater as $5,565. Kid Cannabis Kid Cannabis
UK authorities release confiscated cannabis after boy hospitalized. [SEP] Lenzie Academy // It followed a string of other drug-related incidents. In 1994, a 16-year-old was expelled for drug dealing, then re-admitted. Also that year, four pupils were suspended over claims of drug taking, and a 15-year-old boy was arrested outside school and charged with possessing cannabis." Eight pupils who smoked cannabis on a school trip to Alton Towers were suspended for a fortnight following a disciplinary hearing at the school in June 1998. The school has also received continuing attention for problems with gangs/bullying as well as knife crime. In 2016 a boy of 14 was reported to the police after a
UK authorities release confiscated cannabis after boy hospitalized. [SEP] Sajid Javid // and the Advisory Council on the Misuse of Drugs, Javid announced medicinal cannabis will be available for prescription on the NHS. The mother of an epileptic boy who led the campaign to get the law changed commended Javid and said,"the compassion and speed that the Home Secretary has moved with is just incredible". Javid, writing in The Times, has insisted prescribing medicinal cannabis is not a step towards legalisation for recreational use. The Jewish Chronicle exclusively revealed Javid was taking steps to ban Hezbollah. The military wing of Hezbollah has been banned in the UK since 2008, but the political
Probe into fatal Australia bushfire plane crash complicated by dangers. [SEP] 2003 Canberra bushfires // waterbombing the fires in the forests west of Canberra crashed into Bendora Dam with one person, pilot Duncan Patrick, injured. The pilot was reloading water buckets from the dam at the time of the crash. ACT Chief Minister Jon Stanhope and ACT Chief Fire Control Officer Peter Lucas-Smith were reviewing the fires nearby during a routine bushfire surveillance flight in the Snowy Hydro SouthCare helicopter. The unconscious pilot had been pulled from the sinking wreckage by a SouthCare rescue helicopter medical crewman Euan McKenzie, but due to the weight of his clothes and lack of life vest, was unable to
Probe into fatal Australia bushfire plane crash complicated by dangers. [SEP] 1950 Australian National Airways Douglas DC-4 crash // back to the fire and determine its position. MacDonald did so and advised Air Traffic Control of bearings from the fire to York and Northam, the towns nearest the crash site. Frank McNamara (62), an apiarist, and Geoff Inkpen (25), a young farmer, heard the sound of a big aircraft in serious trouble, flying low nearby. McNamara described the noise from the engines as "terrifying". They investigated and saw the bright light of a flash fire. McNamara sent his two teenage sons in his utility truck to York to alert the police. McNamara and Inkpen then set out on foot
Probe into fatal Australia bushfire plane crash complicated by dangers. [SEP] Garuda Indonesia Flight 200 // back to appear on the 6pm news that night. Two Australian Federal Police agents, Australian Embassy staffers Liz O'Neill (public relations officer) and Allison Sudradjat (Minister Counsellor and Senior Representative of AusAID), and "Australian Financial Review" newspaper journalist Morgan Mellish were among those killed. The accident was investigated by the Indonesian National Transportation Safety Committee (NTSC). Australian Federal Police disaster victim identification experts were deployed to the scene to assist with the identification of bodies. Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB) staff assisted at the scene by inspecting the wreckage. The United States' National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) dispatched a team
Probe into fatal Australia bushfire plane crash complicated by dangers. [SEP] 1950 Australian National Airways Douglas DC-4 crash // in the direction of the fire. As there was bright moonlight, they were able to hurry through the bush. After about half an hour, they came upon a scene of devastation. They were astonished to find an elderly man in a dazed state wandering around the burning wreckage. He gave his name and explained that he had been a passenger on a large aircraft. He had survived the crash despite being badly burned. No one else was found alive. In response to notification from Air Traffic Control, three ambulances from Perth were despatched in the direction of the crash site,
Probe into fatal Australia bushfire plane crash complicated by dangers. [SEP] Eyre Peninsula bushfire, 2005 // were covered in smoke. But we had the sea to go into so we were right." Between 5 October 2005 and 8 May 2007, South Australia's Deputy State Coroner conducted a coronial inquest that examined a large range of factors connected with the bushfire, taking evidence from 140 witnesses. In his 703-page report released on 18 December 2007, the coroner made 34 wide-ranging recommendations for minimising future bushfire risks, to which the South Australian Government subsequently responded. The report also listed other investigations into the bushfire. An Australian Broadcasting Corporation television program broadcast on the day on which the coronial
Probe into fatal Australia bushfire plane crash complicated by dangers. [SEP] 2009 Victorian Bushfires Royal Commission // Kinglake West and swarmed Kinglake less than three hours later. News of deaths reached the Kangaroo Ground CFA office at 5pm and Rees said he'd first been informed of these deaths between 7 and 8pm. Rees was also unaware: of the aircraft line-scan taken after the fire erupted, chief fire behavior expert Dr Kevin Tolhurst’s presence and predictive map he and his team produced. Rees’s evidence explained that warnings weren’t issued from the centre but from the periphery, the local incident-control centers (ICCs), the IECC’s only responsibility was to place such warnings on the CFA website, but nor Rees or
Probe into fatal Australia bushfire plane crash complicated by dangers. [SEP] Paul Lockyer // August 2011. On 18 August 2011, Lockyer and two fellow ABC employees, pilot Gary Ticehurst and cameraman John Bean, died in a helicopter crash on the eastern shore of Lake Eyre in South Australia. The trio were on assignment filming a story about the lake. The aircraft was an Aérospatiale Industries AS355F2 helicopter owned by the ABC. The Australian Transport Safety Bureau conducted an investigation into the fatal accident, finding the probable cause to be spatial disorientation of the pilot, during a period of high workload shortly after taking off for a VFR flight on a dark night. The accident
Probe into fatal Australia bushfire plane crash complicated by dangers. [SEP] 1950 Australian National Airways Douglas DC-4 crash // was not burnt, but autopsy showed both his legs were broken and he died from a fractured skull. Postmortem examinations were performed on the 28 victims of the crash. The two co-pilots died from multiple injuries. Twenty-three passengers and the two air hostesses were found to have died from multiple injuries and burns, or incineration. Only 12 of the 28 victims could be formally identified. The remaining 16 victims were either unrecognisable or unable to be identified and were buried in a mass grave at Perth's Karrakatta cemetery. On its fatal flight the "Amana" was carrying 24 passengers, including 2
Probe into fatal Australia bushfire plane crash complicated by dangers. [SEP] Merpati Nusantara Airlines Flight 5601 // were strewn over the area. A baby was found 20 meters from the wreckage, with its legs had been burnt out due to post-impact fire. A child body, nine years old Meka Fitriyani, was found in her mother's arm. Most of the bodies were found in burn condition and large burn injuries due to post-impact fire. As the plane crashed, the fuel ignited and exploded causing massive fire in the crash site. The post-fire was so intense in fact it burns the vegetations in the surrounding area and ignited some bush fire. The wreckage was still smoking when it was
Probe into fatal Australia bushfire plane crash complicated by dangers. [SEP] Qantas Flight 72 // the flight crew. The ATSB investigation is supported by the Australian Civil Aviation Safety Authority (CASA), Qantas, the French Bureau d'Enquêtes et d'Analyses pour la sécurité de l'Aviation Civile (BEA) and Airbus. Copies of data from the aircraft's flight data recorder and cockpit voice recorder were sent to the BEA and Airbus. The aircraft was equipped with a Northrop Grumman made ADIRS, which investigators sent to the manufacturer in the United States for further testing. On 15 January 2009 the EASA issued an emergency airworthiness directive to address the above A330 and A340 Northrop-Grumman ADIRU problem of incorrectly responding to
Heart Device Cuts Death Rate [SEP] Cardiogenic shock // assist device (which augments the pump-function of the heart) can be considered. Finally, as a last resort, if the person is stable enough and otherwise qualifies, heart transplantation, or if not eligible an artificial heart, can be placed. These invasive measures are important tools—more than 50% of patients who do not die immediately due to cardiac arrest from a lethal abnormal heart rhythm and live to reach the hospital (who have usually suffered a severe acute myocardial infarction, which in itself still has a relatively high mortality rate), die within the first 24 hours. The mortality rate for those still
Heart Device Cuts Death Rate [SEP] Artificial cardiac pacemaker // have to be removed postmortem from bodies which are going to be cremated to avoid explosions. It is a fairly simple procedure which can be carried out by a mortician. Pacemakers with significant battery life are potentially life-saving devices for people in low and middle income countries (LMICs). The Institute of Medicine, a United States non-governmental organization, has reported that inadequate access to advanced cardiovascular technologies is one of the major contributors to cardiovascular disease morbidity and mortality in LMICs. Ever since the 1970s, multiple studies all over the world have reported on the safety and efficacy of pacemaker reuse.
Heart Device Cuts Death Rate [SEP] Dipsalut // Each year in Catalonia between 3,000 and 4,000 people die from sudden cardiac death,[note 1] which is when a person's heart stops pumping blood due to a problem with their cardiac rhythm. It can affect people of all ages and both sexes and it is unpredictable. The only way to save the victim's life is to use a defibrillator, a device that delivers an electric shock to help the heart recover its normal rhythm. To save the victim and avoid any subsequent after-effects it is essential to use the defibrillator within the first few minutes of the cardiac arrest. However,
Heart Device Cuts Death Rate [SEP] Wearable cardioverter defibrillator // a life-threatening heart rhythm is detected, it can deliver a treatment shock to restore normal heart rhythm. The entire event, from detecting a life-threatening arrhythmia to automatically delivering a treatment shock, usually occurs in less than a minute. Timely defibrillation is the single most important factor in saving an SCA victim’s life. A treatment shock must be delivered within a few minutes after an event to be effective; with each passing minute, a patient’s chances of survival drops 10 percent. The WCD does not require bystander intervention and has a 98 percent first treatment shock success rate for resuscitating patients
Heart Device Cuts Death Rate [SEP] Adrian Kantrowitz // local anesthetic in an emergency room or at a patient's bedside. The device was first used in August 1967 to save the life of a 45-year-old woman who was having a heart attack. The device could be used in the 15% of heart attack patients who went into severe shock, 80% of whom could not be helped by the protocols that existed before the balloon pump. Since the device went into widespread use in the 1980s, it had been used in some three million patients by the time of his death. He and his entire team of surgeons, researchers, biomedical
Heart Device Cuts Death Rate [SEP] Implantable cardioverter-defibrillator // which would allow detection of ventricular fibrillation or ventricular tachycardia. Despite the lack of financial backing and grants, they persisted and the first device was implanted in February 1980 at Johns Hopkins Hospital by Dr. Levi Watkins, Jr. The first devices required the chest to be cut open and a mesh electrode sewn onto the heart; the pulse generator was placed in the abdomen. ICDs constantly monitor the rate and rhythm of the heart and can deliver therapies, by way of an electrical shock, when the heart rate exceeds a preset number. More modern devices have software designed to attempt
Heart Device Cuts Death Rate [SEP] Short QT syndrome // family members may be recommended. In those with short QT syndrome who have already experienced a life-threatening abnormal heart rhythm such as ventricular fibrillation, an implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD) may be recommended to reduce the chance of sudden death. This device is implanted under the skin and can continually monitor the heart rhythm. If the device detects a dangerous heart rhythm disturbance it can deliver a small electric shock with the aim of restoring a normal rhythm. Implanting an ICD in someone with short QT syndrome who has not yet experienced a life-threatening arrhythmia is more controversial but may be considered.
Heart Device Cuts Death Rate [SEP] Bernard Lown // part of the mortality. Although Lown encountered enormous opposition and hostility among doctors to the so-called "chair treatment," in 81 patients so treated, mortality was reduced by two thirds. Once the work was published, the chair treatment was rapidly adopted and hospitalizations were reduced to several days. Untold lives were saved by getting patients out of bed. Until the 1950s, ventricular fibrillation of the heart could only be treated with drug therapy. In 1956 American cardiologist Paul Zoll described resuscitations during open-heart surgery and later after sudden cardiac death by means of an alternating current (AC) electric shock, derived from
Heart Device Cuts Death Rate [SEP] Catecholaminergic polymorphic ventricular tachycardia // heart, sympathectomy is effective at decreasing the risk of further life-threatening arrhythmias. While medication and sympathectomy aim to prevent abnormal heart rhythms from occurring in the first place, an implantable defibrillator (ICD) may be used to treat arrhythmias that medication has failed to prevent and restore a normal heart rhythm. These devices, usually implanted under the skin at the front of the chest below the shoulder, can continuously monitor the heart looking for abnormal heart rhythms. If a life-threatening arrhythmia is detected, the device can deliver a small electric shock to terminate the abnormal rhythm and restart the heart. Implantable
Heart Device Cuts Death Rate [SEP] Heart // thoracoscopic surgery, either at the time of other cardiac surgery or as a standalone procedure. A cardioversion, whereby an electric shock is used to stun the heart out of an abnormal rhythm, may also be used. Cardiac devices in the form of pacemakers or implantable defibrillators may also be required to treat arrhythmias. Pacemakers, comprising a small battery powered generator implanted under the skin and one or more leads that extend to the heart, are most commonly used to treat abnormally slow heart rhythms. Implantable defibrillators are used to treat serious life-threatening rapid heart rhythms. These devices monitor the heart,
Nicotine Replacement Treatments May Not Work Long-Term [SEP] Nicotine dependence // some countries, including the US), nicotine gum, nicotine inhaler, nicotine lozenge/mini-lozenge, nicotine nasal spray, nicotine patch, and varenicline. These medications have been shown to significantly improve long-term (i.e., 6-months post-quit day) abstinence rates, especially when used in combination with psychosocial treatment. The nicotine replacement treatments (i.e., patch, lozenge, gum) are dosed based on how dependent a smoker is—people who smoke more cigarettes or who smoke earlier in the morning use higher doses of nicotine replacement treatments. There is no consensus for remedies for tobacco use disorder among pregnant smokers who also use alcohol and stimulants. Psychosocial interventions delivered in-person (individually
Nicotine Replacement Treatments May Not Work Long-Term [SEP] Nicotine replacement therapy // side effects with the gum include nausea, hiccups, and irritation of the mouth. Common side effects with the patch include skin irritation and a dry mouth while the inhaler commonly results in a cough, runny nose, or headaches. Serious risks include nicotine poisoning and continued addiction. They do not appear to increase the risk of heart attacks. There are possible harms to the baby if used during pregnancy. Nicotine replacement therapy works by reducing cravings due to nicotine addiction. They were first approved for use in 1984, in the United States. Nicotine replacement products are on the World Health Organization's
Nicotine Replacement Treatments May Not Work Long-Term [SEP] Nicotine replacement therapy // List of Essential Medicines, the most effective and safe medicines needed in a health system. They are available as generic medication. In the United States a month of patches or gum is between 100 and 200 USD while the other forms are more expensive. Nicotine replacement therapy, in the form of gum, patches, nasal spray, inhaler and lozenges all improve the ability of people trying to quit tobacco products. Studies have shown that nicotine replacement therapy is as effective as medications, such as bupropion, in helping people quit smoking for at least 6 months. Studies have also shown that all
Nicotine Replacement Treatments May Not Work Long-Term [SEP] Nicotine replacement therapy // cessation” (p. 1260). Efficacy studies, which are conducted using randomized controlled trials, do not transfer very well to real-world effectiveness. Bauld, Bell, McCullough, Richardson and Greaves (2009) reviewed 20 studies on the effectiveness of intensive NHS treatments for smoking cessation published between 1990 and 2007. Quit rates showed a dramatic decrease between 4-weeks and one year. A quit rate of 53% at four weeks fell to only 15% at 1 year. Younger smokers, females, pregnant smokers and more deprived smokers had lower quit rates than other groups. Some side effects are caused by the nicotine, and are common to NRT
Nicotine Replacement Treatments May Not Work Long-Term [SEP] Nicotine // The long-term health effects of nicotine in the form of vapor is unknown. Nicotine exposure regardless of the duration has not been found to be dangerous in adults. The long-term use of nicotine in the form of snus incurs a slight risk of cardiovascular disease compared to tobacco smoking and there is evidence of an increased risk in snus users of heart failure. The available literature strengthens the evidence that any cancer risk (including that of pancreatic cancer) is at most minimal. The complex effects of nicotine are not entirely understood. Some studies of continued use of nicotine replacement products
Nicotine Replacement Treatments May Not Work Long-Term [SEP] Nicotine Anonymous // The American Cancer Society, The American Lung Association, The American Heart Association and The Seventh-day Adventist Church. Commercial programs include cognitive-behavioral group therapy, nicotine replacement therapies and bupropion. Combinations of these approaches, marketed in commercial packages such as Smokeless and Smoke Stoppers, are licensed to treatment providers and conducted on an inpatient or outpatient basis. These are in addition to local programs ran by regional treatment facilities. A weekly NicA meeting is ongoing and therefore unique among the array of treatment options because nicotine users and ex-nicotine users can enter and leave the process as they please. Most other treatment
Nicotine Replacement Treatments May Not Work Long-Term [SEP] Nicotine replacement therapy // options are available, including nicotine mouth sprays and sublingual tablets. Trade names include Nicotex, Nicorette, Nicoderm, Nicogum, Nicotinell, Thrive and Commit Lozenge. NRT products were first approved for use in the United States in 1984. Nicotine replacement products are on the World Health Organization's List of Essential Medicines, the most effective and safe medicines needed in a health system. They are available as generic medication. In the United States a month of patches or gum is between 100 and 200 USD while the other forms are more expensive. In the United States, a month of patches or gum is between
Nicotine Replacement Treatments May Not Work Long-Term [SEP] Nicotine replacement therapy // forms of nicotine replacement therapy, including nicotine gum, patches, nasal spray, inhalers, and lozenges, have similar success rates in terms of helping people stop smoking. However, the likelihood that someone will stick to a certain treatment varies, with compliance being the highest with nicotine patches, followed by nicotine gum, inhalers, and nasal sprays. It is important to note that using a few different nicotine replacement methods in combination may improve success rates in stopping tobacco use. Additionally, using nicotine replacement with counseling has been proven to improve tobacco abstinence rates. Nicotine replacement products are most beneficial for heavy smokers who
Nicotine Replacement Treatments May Not Work Long-Term [SEP] Nicotine replacement therapy // risk for nicotine addiction in the future. In people under the age of 18, a physician is often consulted before starting NRT. The evidence suggests that exposure to nicotine between the ages of 10 and 25 years causes lasting harm to the brain and cognitive ability. Most tobacco users are under-eighteens when they start, and almost no-one over the age of 25 starts using. While there is no evidence that NRT can increase the risk of heart attacks, individuals with pre-existing cardiovascular conditions or recent heart attacks should consult a physician before initiating NRT. Nicotine replacement therapy works by reducing
Nicotine Replacement Treatments May Not Work Long-Term [SEP] Nicotine replacement therapy // cravings due to nicotine addiction. Nicotine replacement products vary in the time it takes for the nicotine to enter the body and the total time nicotine stays in the body. The more quickly a dose of nicotine is delivered and absorbed, the higher the addiction risk. It is possible to become dependent on some NRTs. Nicotine patches are applied to the skin and continuously administer a stable dose of nicotine slowly over 16–24 hours. Nicotine gum, nicotine sprays, nicotine sublingual tablets, and nicotine lozenges administer nicotine orally with quicker nicotine uptake into the body but lasting a shorter amount of
Health officials report third vaping-related death in Texas . [SEP] Maternal healthcare in Texas // death in the state and suggest measures to reducing its incidence. In the 2016 Biennial Report, the Task Force identified cardiac event, drug overdose, hypertension, hemorrhage, and sepsis as being the top five factors contributing to maternal death in Texas. Since opioids are the most common method of drug abuse in Texas, the Task Force has initiated the Neonatal Abstinence Syndrome Prevention Pilot to reduce the incidence of this syndrome in newborns resulting from maternal opioid use. The Task Force is also working toward extending the number of days after delivery to which a woman in the Healthy Texas Women
Health officials report third vaping-related death in Texas . [SEP] Death of Daniel Rocha // the third arrived after Rocha was shot. Multiple tests were conducted on Rocha to determine whether narcotics were in his blood the night he was killed. Rocha was initially reported drug-free by Travis County Medical Examiner Robert Bayardo. On July 18, 2005 Bayardo reversed this position, stating investigators found traces of marijuana in a "subsequent toxicology screen". This reversal resulted in criticism against the findings from some members of the community. Death of Daniel Rocha Daniel Rocha (died June 9, 2005) was an 18-year-old who was shot and killed in southeast Austin, Texas by police officer Julie Schroder, a seven-year
Health officials report third vaping-related death in Texas . [SEP] Ann Richards // Anderson Cancer Center in Houston. Alcohol and tobacco exposure are major risk factors for certain types of esophageal cancer; Richards had "admitted to heavy drinking and smoking in her younger years, saying she 'smoked like a chimney and drank like a fish.'" She died from cancer on the night of September 13, 2006, at her home in Austin, surrounded by her family. Her remains are interred at Texas State Cemetery in Austin. She was survived by her four children, their spouses, and eight grandchildren. Three memorial services were held. On November 16, 2006, the City of Austin changed the official
Health officials report third vaping-related death in Texas . [SEP] Cheese (recreational drug) // medical examiner's office announced on September 24 that a review of deaths in Tarrant County (west) and Denton County (north) showed an additional 15 deaths between 2004 and 2007 that appeared to be linked to "cheese," and Collin and Rockwall counties had reported one death each. These new figures brought the total number of deaths associated with cheese heroin in northern Texas to 40, a figure that included many older adults along with those age 18 and under. In 2013 Refugio "Cuco" Ramirez-Garcia pleaded guilty in a federal court to operating heroin distribution networks in Dallas, which contributed to the
Health officials report third vaping-related death in Texas . [SEP] Maternal healthcare in Texas // consideration of pregnancy on its death certificate. However, this was not seen to visibly affect the maternal mortality rates in the ten-year time period. After 2010, the maternal mortality rate doubled, exceeding 35 between 2010 and 2014 and remaining higher than 30 in 2014. In the US, from 1987 to 2009, the leading causes of pregnancy-related deaths included hemorrhage, sepsis, and hyperintensive disorders. From 2006 to 2009, these causes changed, with cardiovascular conditions accounting for more than a third of pregnancy-related deaths. While research is ongoing on the causes of maternal mortality in Texas, maternal mortality in the US has
Health officials report third vaping-related death in Texas . [SEP] Cheese (recreational drug) // step is excluded and the Cheese is in a super pure base form (which can be efficiently smoked). Deaths directly attributable to this form of heroin are difficult to confirm because coroner's offices frequently do not have a method to track cause of death to one specific form of a drug. Centralized reporting of cheese heroin deaths does not exist in Texas since each county has its own official to sign death certificates. Several of the deaths are notable due either to the publicity that followed or unusual circumstances of the case. One of the earliest published instances of a
Health officials report third vaping-related death in Texas . [SEP] Safety of electronic cigarettes // Tobacco Products reported between 2008 and the beginning of 2012, 47 cases of adverse effects associated with e-cigarettes, of which eight were considered serious. Two peer-reviewed reports of lipoid pneumonia were related to e-cigarette use, as well as two reports in the media in Spain and the UK. The man from the UK reportedly died from severe lipoid pneumonia in 2011. Reports to the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for minor adverse effects identified with using e-cigarettes include headache, chest pain, nausea, and cough. Major adverse effects reported to the FDA included hospitalizations for pneumonia, congestive heart failure, seizure, rapid
Health officials report third vaping-related death in Texas . [SEP] Inhalant // was mentioned on 144 death certificates in Texas during the period 1988–1998 and was reported in 39 deaths in Virginia between 1987 and 1996 from acute voluntary exposure to abused inhalants. Regardless of which inhalant is used, inhaling vapours or gases can lead to injury or death. One major risk is hypoxia (lack of oxygen), which can occur due to inhaling fumes from a plastic bag, or from using proper inhalation mask equipment (e.g., a medical mask for nitrous oxide) but not adding oxygen or room air. Another danger is freezing the throat. When a gas that was stored under
Health officials report third vaping-related death in Texas . [SEP] Texas // Obesity causes several chronic diseases including heart disease and diabetes. The three leading causes of death in Texas - heart disease, stroke, and cancer - are all linked to obesity. Additionally, obesity can cause type 2 diabetes, arteriosclerosis, and hypertension. In 2010, Texas saw 1,261,654 cases of heart disease and is predicted to see 5,688,482 cases in 2030. In 2010, Texas saw 1,962,059 cases of diabetes and is predicted to see 2,851,697 cases in 2030. In 2010, Texas saw 4,300,252 cases of hypertension and is predicted to see 5,689,509 cases in 2030. In 2010, Texas saw 328,379 cases of obesity-related
Health officials report third vaping-related death in Texas . [SEP] Maternal healthcare in Texas // been linked to chronic health conditions in women. Cardiovascular conditions were shown to account for at least one third of pregnancy-related deaths. Behavioral factors, such as smoking, overdoses, and suicide have also shown to be present in a high frequency during the period of pregnancy and postpartum period. Similarly, depression and anxiety have been prevalent in women during the postpartum period. In Texas, African-American women are at the highest risk of maternal death. In 2013, the Senate Bill 495 passed, leading to the establishment of the Texas Maternal Mortality and Morbidity Task Force to assess the factors contributing to maternal
Liberals" want to change the name of Cracker Barrel to "Caucasian Barrel" because otherwise it's racist. [SEP] Cracker Barrel // a U.S. Department of Justice (USDOJ) investigation found that Cracker Barrel discriminated against minority customers; patrons complained of racially segregated seating and service quality. In an agreement with the USDOJ, Cracker Barrel implemented non-discrimination policies and pledged to focus on improving minority representation and civic involvement, particularly in the black community. Company shareholders added sexual orientation to the company's non-discrimination policy in 2002. Cracker Barrel was founded in 1969 by Dan Evins, a sales representative for Shell Oil, who developed the restaurant and gift store concept initially as a plan to improve gasoline sales. Designed to resemble the traditional country
Liberals" want to change the name of Cracker Barrel to "Caucasian Barrel" because otherwise it's racist. [SEP] Cracker Barrel // involved outreach to minority employees, along with testing a training plan to help employees whose first language is Spanish to learn English. , minorities made up 23 percent of the company's employees, including over 11 percent of its management and executives. Cracker Barrel is on the Corporate Advisory Board for the Texas Conference of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP), and is a corporate sponsor of the NAACP Leadership 500 Summit. The company has been praised for its gender diversity, particularly on its board of directors, which includes three women out of eleven total board members.
Liberals" want to change the name of Cracker Barrel to "Caucasian Barrel" because otherwise it's racist. [SEP] Cracker Barrel // pulling the products from its shelves, Cracker Barrel reversed its position after protests from customers. In July 1999, a discrimination lawsuit was filed against Cracker Barrel by a group of former employees, who claimed that the company had discriminated against them on the grounds of race. In December 2001, twenty-one of the restaurant's customers, represented by the same attorneys, filed a separate lawsuit, alleging racial discrimination in its treatment of guests. Regarding both accusations, Cracker Barrel officials disputed the claims and stated that the company was committed to fair treatment of its employees and customers. In 2004, an investigation by
Liberals" want to change the name of Cracker Barrel to "Caucasian Barrel" because otherwise it's racist. [SEP] Cracker Barrel // publicizing of its non-discrimination policies. They were required to hire an outside auditor to ensure compliance with the terms of the settlement. In 2006, Cracker Barrel paid a $2 million settlement to end a lawsuit alleging race and sexual harassment at three Illinois restaurants. Cracker Barrel stores subsequently began displaying a sign in the front foyer explaining the company's non-discrimination policy, and added to its website and menu the policy and details on how to make a complaint. Since the early 2000s, Cracker Barrel has provided training and resources to minority employees, to improve its image on diversity. These efforts
Liberals" want to change the name of Cracker Barrel to "Caucasian Barrel" because otherwise it's racist. [SEP] Cracker Barrel // appearance and decor designed to resemble an old-fashioned general store. Each restaurant features a front porch lined with wooden rocking chairs, a stone fireplace, and decorative artifacts from the local area. Cracker Barrel partners with country music performers. It engages in charitable activities, such as its assistance of victims of Hurricane Katrina and injured war veterans. Employees there wear a choice of either white, yellow, blue or pink shirts. During the 1990s, the company was the subject of controversy for its official stance against gay and lesbian employees and for discriminatory practices against African-American customers and female employees. In 2004,
Liberals" want to change the name of Cracker Barrel to "Caucasian Barrel" because otherwise it's racist. [SEP] Cracker (term) // attorney then asked her if "creepy ass cracker" was an offensive term, to which she responded "no". That testimony and response brought about both media and public debate about the use of the word "cracker". A CNN report referenced the regional nature of the term, noting both that "some in Florida use the term in a non-derogatory, colloquial sense" and that it is sometimes regarded as a "sharp racial insult that resonates with white southerners even if white northerners don't get it". In his 1964 speech "The Ballot or the Bullet", Malcolm X used the term "cracker" in reference to
Liberals" want to change the name of Cracker Barrel to "Caucasian Barrel" because otherwise it's racist. [SEP] Cracker Barrel // the U.S. Justice Department found evidence that Cracker Barrel had been segregating customer seating by race; seating or serving white customers before seating or serving black customers; providing inferior service to black customers, and allowing white servers to refuse to serve black customers. The Justice Department determined that the firm had violated Title II of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. The company was required to sign a five-year agreement to introduce "effective nondiscrimination policies and procedures." The terms included new equal opportunity training; the creation of a new system to log, investigate, and resolve complaints of discrimination; and the
Liberals" want to change the name of Cracker Barrel to "Caucasian Barrel" because otherwise it's racist. [SEP] Cracker (term) // Cracker (term) Cracker, sometimes white cracker or cracka, is a colloquial term for white people, used especially for poor rural whites in the Southern United States. It is also at times used indiscriminately and pejoratively against any person of white background. However, it is sometimes used in a neutral or positive context or self-descriptively with pride in reference to a native of Florida or Georgia (see Florida cracker and Georgia cracker). A 1783 pejorative use of "crackers" specifies men who "are descended from convicts that were transported from Great Britain to Virginia at different times, and inherit so much profligacy
Liberals" want to change the name of Cracker Barrel to "Caucasian Barrel" because otherwise it's racist. [SEP] Cracker (term) // "Ain't it a shame what the river has done to this poor cracker's land" is attributed to President Coolidge. In 2008, former President Bill Clinton used the term "cracker" on "Larry King Live" to describe white voters he was attempting to win over for Barack Obama: "You know, they think that because of who I am and where my politic[al] base has traditionally been, they may want me to go sort of hustle up what Lawton Chiles used to call the 'cracker vote' there." Crackin' Good Snacks (a division of Winn-Dixie, a Southern grocery chain) has sold crackers similar to
Liberals" want to change the name of Cracker Barrel to "Caucasian Barrel" because otherwise it's racist. [SEP] Georgia cracker // States in the late 20th century, "Georgia cracker" has become used informally by some white residents of Georgia of Scot-Irish and English stock, to indicate that their family has lived there for many generations. However, other Georgians find the term highly offensive and insulting: "'Cracker' has a murky history but generally describes poor whites. The slur is widely considered an insult among white southerners. . . . . for plenty of rural, white southerners, "cracker" is a demeaning, bigoted term . . . the equivalent of redneck." The "Cracker Party" was a Democratic Party political machine that dominated city politics
Development of a wearable medical device for type 2 diabetes [SEP] Medical device // safety of their devices. As recently as June 2011, security experts showed that by using readily available hardware and a user manual, a scientist could both tap into the information on the system of a wireless insulin pump in combination with a glucose monitor. With the PIN of the device, the scientist could wirelessly control the dosage of the insulin. Anand Raghunathan, a researcher in this study, explains that medical devices are getting smaller and lighter so that they can be easily worn. The downside is that additional security features would put an extra strain on the battery and size
Development of a wearable medical device for type 2 diabetes [SEP] Glucose meter // development of glucose meters that directly integrate cellular data transmission capability, enabling the user to both transmit glucose data to the medical caregiver and receive direct guidance from the caregiver on the screen of the glucose meter. The first such device, from Telcare, Inc., was exhibited at the 2010 CTIA International Wireless Expo, where it won an E-Tech award. This device is currently undergoing clinical testing in the US and internationally. In early 2014 Google reported testing prototypes of contact lenses that monitor glucose levels and alert users when glucose levels cross certain thresholds. Many glucose meters employ the oxidation
Development of a wearable medical device for type 2 diabetes [SEP] Minimed Paradigm // advancements as measured by Nobel prizes awarded in medicine, chemistry, and physics, and after more than 23 million people in the United States alone were diagnosed with diabetes in 2007, the industry continues to have the same basic description of a pump system in the marketplace, "a glucose sensor, a processor, and a pump" instead of "sensors, processors, and pumps". The ultimate long-term goal of future technology for a portable device for treating diabetes is to: a) eliminate all dependent peripheral devices, for example, calibration meter, injection syringes/pens, glucagon, etc.; b) manage very complex life situations with fully automated protocols,
Development of a wearable medical device for type 2 diabetes [SEP] Artificial pancreas // the levels be kept balanced when the body cannot produce insulin itself. The artificial pancreas is a broad term for different bio-engineering strategies currently in development to achieve these requirements. Different bio-engineering approaches under consideration include: The medical equipment approach involves combining a continuous glucose monitor and an implanted insulin pump that can function together with a computer-controlled algorithm to replace the normal function of the pancreas. The development of continuous glucose monitors has led to the progress in artificial pancreas technology using this integrated system. The original devices for use in type 1 diabetes were blood glucose meters. Continuous
Development of a wearable medical device for type 2 diabetes [SEP] Tandem Diabetes Care // began shipping its next-generation pump platform, the t:slim X2. The X2 will receive updates via the Tandem Product Updater product, with planned updates initially including integration with Dexcom's G5 and G6 Continuous Glucose Monitors, and eventually the integration of closed-loop technology which Tandem licensed from TypeZero in July 2016. Tandem Diabetes Care Tandem Diabetes Care is a public US medical device manufacturer based in San Diego, CA. The company develops medical technologies for the treatment of diabetes and specifically insulin infusion therapy. In 2006, a group of engineers recognized the need for new and improved methods of pumping insulin and
Development of a wearable medical device for type 2 diabetes [SEP] Blood glucose monitoring // the use of test strips have shown that the required self-injury acts as a psychological barrier restraining the patients from sufficient glucose control. As a result, secondary diseases are caused by excessive glucose levels. A significant improvement of diabetes therapy might be achieved with an implantable sensor that would continuously monitor blood sugar levels within the body and transmit the measured data outside. The burden of regular blood testing would be taken from the patient, who would instead follow the course of their glucose levels on an intelligent device like a laptop or a smart phone. Glucose concentrations do not
Development of a wearable medical device for type 2 diabetes [SEP] Diabetes management // the GlucoWatch biographer in 1999. This product is no longer sold. It was a retrospective device rather than live. Several live monitoring devices have subsequently been manufactured which provide ongoing monitoring of glucose levels on an automated basis during the day. For Type 1 diabetics there will always be a need for insulin injections throughout their life. However, both Type 1 and Type 2 diabetics can see dramatic effects on their blood sugars through controlling their diet, and some Type 2 diabetics can fully control the disease by dietary modification. As diabetes can lead to many other complications it is
Development of a wearable medical device for type 2 diabetes [SEP] Stretchable electronics // Seoul National University and MC10 (a flexible-electronics company that originated at MIT based in Lexington, Massachusetts) have developed a patch that is able to detect glucose levels in sweat and can deliver the medicine needed on demand (insulin or metformin). The patch consists of graphene riddled with gold particles and contains sensors that are able to detect temperature, pH level, glucose, and humidity. Stretchable electronics also permit developers to create soft robots. These soft robots can be used to implement minimal invasive surgeries in hospitals. Especially when it comes to surgeries of the brain and every millimeter is important, such
Development of a wearable medical device for type 2 diabetes [SEP] EHealth // has achieved his or her daily goal. Finally, it is also synced to an iPhone app which allows for tracking and sharing of personal record and achievements. Other monitoring devices have more medical relevance. A well-known device of this type is the blood glucose monitor. The use of this device is restricted to diabetic patients and allows users to measure the blood glucose levels in their body. It is extremely quantitative and the results are available instantaneously. However, this device is not as independent of a self-monitoring device as the Nike+ Fuelband because it requires some patient education before use.
Development of a wearable medical device for type 2 diabetes [SEP] Mohamed Osman Baloola // monitoring and control system for diabetes symptoms. He set about creating an artificial pancreas and a remote system to monitor the stability of glucose levels in diabetics. The device, which can be linked to a hospital database system as well as family and friends, enables an immediate response if a medical situation arises. Mohamed Osman Baloola Mohamed Osman Baloola ( born April 14, 1981) is a Sudanese scientist and inventor who was named among "The World's 500 Most influential Arabs in 2012 and 2013" for his work on diabetes. Eng Mohamed Osman has been a Teaching Assistant of Biomedical Engineering
Massachusetts Senate to debate prescription drug price bill. [SEP] Diana DiZoglio // legislation aimed at curbing opioid prescriptions and attempted to establish a task force in Massachusetts on protecting elderly and elderly persons residing in public housing. DiZoglio worked with the Lawrence legislative delegation to secure $145,000 for STEM (science, technology, engineering and math) learning at Greater Lawrence Technical School. In March 2018 DiZoglio announced her candidacy for the 1st Essex District State Senate after incumbent State Senator Kathleen O'Connor-Ives announced her decision to not seek reelection. Diana DiZoglio Diana DiZoglio is an American state legislator serving in the Massachusetts House of Representatives. She is a Methuen resident and a member of
Massachusetts Senate to debate prescription drug price bill. [SEP] Presidency of Barack Obama // a ban on denying coverage based on pre-existing conditions. However, the House bill included a tax increase on families making more than $1 million per year and a public health insurance option, while the Senate plan included an excise tax on high-cost health plans. The 2010 Massachusetts Senate special election victory of Scott Brown seriously imperiled the prospects of a health care reform bill, as Democrats lost their 60-seat Senate super-majority. The White House and Speaker Nancy Pelosi engaged in an extensive campaign to convince both centrists and liberals in the House to pass the Senate's health care bill, the
Massachusetts Senate to debate prescription drug price bill. [SEP] Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act // debate on the bill: a cloture vote to end the filibuster. The bill then passed, also 60–39, on December 24, 2009, with all Democrats and two independents voting for it, and all Republicans against (except Jim Bunning, who did not vote). The bill was endorsed by the AMA and AARP. On January 19, 2010, Massachusetts Republican Scott Brown was elected to the Senate in a special election to replace Kennedy, having campaigned on giving the Republican minority the 41st vote needed to sustain Republican filibusters. His victory had become significant because of its effects on the legislative process. The first
Massachusetts Senate to debate prescription drug price bill. [SEP] New England Council // US senators as well as the governors of New Hampshire and Massachusetts. In June 2016, Massachusetts governor Charlie Baker indicated at a New England Council breakfast that the New England states would begin sharing information about prescription drug usage and monitoring. New Hampshire senator Jeanne Shaheen addressed the New England Council in Bedford, New Hampshire in July 2016, arguing against isolationism in US politics and emphasizing the need to address the heroin and opioid epidemic facing the country, with New England in particular. The NEC claims that its mission is "to identify and support federal public policies and articulate the
Massachusetts Senate to debate prescription drug price bill. [SEP] Massachusetts General Court // the bill, when making their report. If the estimated cost is less than $100,000, the bill bypasses having to be referred to Ways and Means. If a bill is not related to health care, but affects the finances of the Commonwealth, or, if it is reported by the Health Care Financing Committee with an estimated cost greater than $100,000, it is referred to the Senate or House Committee on Ways and Means after the first reading. Adverse reports ("ought not to pass") are also referred to the Committee on Steering and Policy in the Senate or placed without debate in
Massachusetts Senate to debate prescription drug price bill. [SEP] Gene Lindsey // Massachusetts and solicit input from interested stakeholders and experts. The goal of the committee will be to make recommendations about key decision points to the full Council to inform comprehensive payment reform legislation. [link to mass.gov] On January 19, 2011, Dr. Lindsey was appointed by Governor Patrick to the Massachusetts Special Commission on Provider Price Reform established under Section 67 of Chapter 288 of the Acts of 2010. The Special Commission is charged to investigate the rising cost of health care insurance and the impact of reimbursement rates paid by health insurers to providers, and to examine policies aimed at
Massachusetts Senate to debate prescription drug price bill. [SEP] Political positions of Mitt Romney // for the governorship of Massachusetts in 2002, Romney argued that the federal government should pay for medicines for seniors: "It is outrageous that some senior citizens are forced to choose between paying for their prescription drugs and their groceries. The federal government needs to step in with a plan for our senior citizens, and I will lobby officials on the federal level to provide a Medicare drug benefit." (The U.S. Congress would pass legislation providing for Medicare prescription drug coverage - Medicare Part D - the following year.) In February 2012, in an address to the Detroit Economic Club during
Massachusetts Senate to debate prescription drug price bill. [SEP] Prizes as an alternative to patents // been a longtime proponent of Stiglitz’ ideas, and favors a system of incentives for innovation in medicine and pharmaceuticals over a system of patents, which he asserts grant company monopolies on drugs and drive up pharmaceutical prices. The two bills proposed on May 26, 2011 by Senator Bernie Sanders would completely remove legal barriers to the manufacture and sale of generic drugs. The bills will give the government the right to set specific goals and direct research to certain areas of medicine. S1137 would apply to all prescription drugs, and S1138 is focused on HIV/AIDS medications. The bills call for
Massachusetts Senate to debate prescription drug price bill. [SEP] Charlie Baker // core competencies program on prescription drug misuse at the state's dental schools, and spoke in support of the Obama Administration's $1.1 billion proposal to expand access to treatment for drug addicts. In March 2016, Baker spoke in support of new Centers for Disease Control opioid prescription guidelines, signed into law a bill repealing automatic driver's license suspensions for people convicted of drug crimes, and Baker signed into law a compromise version of the comprehensive opioid legislation he proposed the previous October. In May 2016, Baker and Massachusetts Attorney General Maura Healey launched a statewide campaign to promote awareness of protection
Massachusetts Senate to debate prescription drug price bill. [SEP] John F. Keenan (state senator) // 3, and since its passage has said the law is subject to exploitation, and should be changed to include guards against non-medical use. He also supports "taking a look" at gun laws, and possibly proposing new gun control legislation, in wake of the Newtown School shooting, in nearby Connecticut, and other mass shootings. As of December 2013, he held office hours on Fridays to meet with constituents. He has been involved in efforts to stop the FDA from approving new non-tamper-resistant opioids. In 2016, Keenan introduced Massachusetts state legislature Bill H.4569 on behalf of resident Tom Emswiler, which created a
A video shows a sick, possibly starving polar bear on Baffin Island in the Canadian Arctic. [SEP] The Thaw (2009 film) // another researcher. The students discover the body of the polar bear, and Bart is bitten by a bug while touching it. Evelyn is awakened in the middle of the night by an ATV approaching the station. When she goes to investigate, Jane falls from the helicopter. Jane has destroyed the helicopter's control panel, eliminating any immediate chance of escape. Ling wakes up with many bug bites on her face and torso, and Jane dies in Evelyn's arms. Realizing Ling is sick, Federico calls in a helicopter to rescue Ling. Attempting to find David, Evelyn and Atom discover eggs in the
A video shows a sick, possibly starving polar bear on Baffin Island in the Canadian Arctic. [SEP] Polar bear // more likely to be predatory and are almost always fatal. However, due to the very small human population around the Arctic, such attacks are rare. Michio Hoshino, a Japanese wildlife photographer, was once pursued briefly by a hungry male polar bear in northern Alaska. According to Hoshino, the bear started running but Hoshino made it to his truck. The bear was able to reach the truck and tore one of the doors off the truck before Hoshino was able to drive off. In general, adult polar bears live solitary lives. Yet, they have often been seen playing together for hours
A video shows a sick, possibly starving polar bear on Baffin Island in the Canadian Arctic. [SEP] Polar bear // is likely to be young, sickly or injured specimens rather than healthy adults. The polar bear's metabolism is specialized to require large amounts of fat from marine mammals, and it cannot derive sufficient caloric intake from terrestrial food. In their southern range, especially near Hudson Bay and James Bay, Canadian polar bears endure all summer without sea ice to hunt from. Here, their food ecology shows their dietary flexibility. They still manage to consume some seals, but they are food-deprived in summer as only marine mammal carcasses are an important alternative without sea ice, especially carcasses of the beluga whale.
A video shows a sick, possibly starving polar bear on Baffin Island in the Canadian Arctic. [SEP] Arturo (polar bear) // have him moved to Assiniboine Park Zoo, a zoo in Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada. The petition was created by Laura Morales of Hamilton, Ontario. It gained considerable attention after the hashtag #Freearturo began trending on Twitter. Supporters of the petition also noted that a polar bear died in Buenos Aires in December 2012 due to excessive heat, and argued that Arturo exhibited symptoms of depression and other mental health problems. As of July 19, 2014, the petition had over 400,000 signatures, and had been endorsed by Newt Gingrich and Cher. Assiniboine Park Zoo responded that while they would've gladly accepted Arturo
A video shows a sick, possibly starving polar bear on Baffin Island in the Canadian Arctic. [SEP] Andrée's Arctic balloon expedition // it further. Strindberg, the youngest, died first and was "buried" (wedged into a cliff aperture) by the others. However, the interpretation of these observations is contested. The best-known and most widely credited suggestion is that made by Ernst Tryde, a medical practitioner, in his book "De döda på Vitön" ("The Dead on Kvitøya" ) in 1952: that the men succumbed to trichinosis, which they had contracted from eating undercooked polar bear meat. Larvae of "Trichinella spiralis" were found in parts of a polar bear carcass at the site. Lundström and Sundman both favor this explanation. Critics note that diarrhea, which
A video shows a sick, possibly starving polar bear on Baffin Island in the Canadian Arctic. [SEP] Frozen Planet // range without disturbing the animals. From late April to early May 2009, BBC crews were in Hay River, Northwest Territories, Canada filming the annual breakup of the river of the same name, which flows into Great Slave Lake. The BBC was accused of staging after it was reported that one scene of a polar bear giving birth was filmed in a Dutch (initially reported as German) animal park. The BBC defended the shots, explaining that it would have been impossible to film the event in the wild without endangering the cubs, that the commentary was careful not to mislead the
A video shows a sick, possibly starving polar bear on Baffin Island in the Canadian Arctic. [SEP] Polar bear jail // they are unable to hunt their primary prey - seals - and, suffering from the hunger, they approach the town and threaten the inhabitants. Also now on the Hudson bay shore and Churchill river there are signs warning "Polar Bear Alert", and a person noticing a polar bear can call the designated number and the workers of the Department of Natural Resources will come out and catch the bear. Polar bear jail Polar bear jail (also known as Polar Bear Holding Facility) is a special building in Churchill, Manitoba where polar bears that are considered troublesome or dangerous are isolated
A video shows a sick, possibly starving polar bear on Baffin Island in the Canadian Arctic. [SEP] Schatzgräber (weather station) // Blankenburg had also been the one who had consumed the greatest amount of raw polar bear meat, he was the first to report pain in his legs and a high fever after a few days. Within a month, nine more members of the weather troupe fell ill, with the vegetarian paramedic Gerhard Hoffmann as the only exception. The Kriegsmarine's medical corps remotely attested Trichinosis, and the evacuation of the operation was ordered immediately. To adequately care for the sick troupe, staff surgeon Dr. Wendt of the Tromsø marine hospital was chosen. He was to fly in to the station and
A video shows a sick, possibly starving polar bear on Baffin Island in the Canadian Arctic. [SEP] Polar bear // counts require flying a helicopter in the Arctic climate to find polar bears, shooting a tranquilizer dart at the bear to sedate it, and then tagging the bear. In Nunavut, some Inuit have reported increases in bear sightings around human settlements in recent years, leading to a belief that populations are increasing. Scientists have responded by noting that hungry bears may be congregating around human settlements, leading to the illusion that populations are higher than they actually are. The Polar Bear Specialist Group of the IUCN Species Survival Commission takes the position that "estimates of subpopulation size or sustainable harvest
A video shows a sick, possibly starving polar bear on Baffin Island in the Canadian Arctic. [SEP] Polar bear // ice in the Arctic may be causing an increase of orcas in the Arctic sea, which may increase the risk of predation on polar bears but also may benefit the bears by providing more whale carcasses that they can scavenge. The remains of polar bears have found in the stomachs of large Greenland sharks ("Somniosus microcephalus"), although it certainly cannot be ruled out that the bears were merely scavenged by this slow-moving, unusual shark. A rather unlikely killer of a grown polar bear has reportedly included a wolverine ("Gulo gulo"), anecedotely reported to have suffocated a bear in a zoo
Inspired by Greta Thunberg, worldwide protest demands climate action. [SEP] Greta Thunberg // including The Netherlands, Germany, Finland and Denmark. In Australia, thousands of school students were inspired by Thunberg to strike on Fridays, ignoring Prime Minister Scott Morrison's comments of " more learning in schools and less activism". On Twitter, she used hashtags and spread online awareness. Thunberg participated in the Rise for Climate demonstration outside the European Parliament in Brussels and the Declaration of Rebellion organized by Extinction Rebellion in London. On 24 November 2018, she spoke at TEDxStockholm. Towards the conclusion of her talk, Thunberg said, "We've had thirty years of pep-talking and selling positive ideas. And I'm sorry, but
Inspired by Greta Thunberg, worldwide protest demands climate action. [SEP] Greta Thunberg // director. Greta Thunberg has been diagnosed with Asperger's syndrome. On 20 August 2018, Thunberg, then in ninth grade, decided to not attend school until the 2018 Sweden general election on 9 September after heat waves and wildfires in Sweden. Her demands were that the Sweden government reduce carbon emissions as per the Paris Agreement, and she protested via sitting outside the Riksdag every day during school hours with the sign ""Skolstrejk för klimatet"" (school strike for the climate). After the general elections, she continued to strike only on Fridays, which gained worldwide attention. Similar protests were organized in other countries,
Inspired by Greta Thunberg, worldwide protest demands climate action. [SEP] Greta Thunberg // Greta Thunberg Greta Thunberg (born 3 January 2003) is a Swedish climate activist. She is known for striking outside the Swedish parliament building to raise climate change activism, speaking at TEDxStockholm, and addressing the COP24 UN climate conference. Thunberg was born on 3 January 2003. Her mother is Malena Ernman, a Swedish opera singer. Thunberg's father is Svante Thunberg, who is an actor named after Svante Arrhenius. Arrhenius is an ancestor of her father, and won a Nobel Prize in Chemistry for calculating the effects of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere. Her grandfather is Olof Thunberg, an actor and a
Inspired by Greta Thunberg, worldwide protest demands climate action. [SEP] Greta Thunberg // it doesn't work. Because if it would have, the emissions would have gone down by now—they haven't." On 4 December 2018, Thunberg addressed the COP24 United Nations climate change summit. On 12 December 2018, Thunberg again addressed the COP24 plenary assembly, stating: Greta Thunberg Greta Thunberg (born 3 January 2003) is a Swedish climate activist. She is known for striking outside the Swedish parliament building to raise climate change activism, speaking at TEDxStockholm, and addressing the COP24 UN climate conference. Thunberg was born on 3 January 2003. Her mother is Malena Ernman, a Swedish opera singer. Thunberg's father is Svante
Inspired by Greta Thunberg, worldwide protest demands climate action. [SEP] Extinction Rebellion // Rebellion" against the UK government and speeches by Donnachadh McCarthy, 15-year-old Greta Thunberg, the Swedish schoolgirl "on strike" from school over her own government's climate inaction, Julia Bradbury, and Green MEP Molly Scott Cato in the square. After a motion was proposed and agreed, the assembly then moved to occupy the road, where Caroline Lucas, George Monbiot, and other speakers and singers, including Seize the Day, continued from the reclaimed street directly in front of the Houses of Parliament. Following this, 15 campaigners were arrested for deliberately continuing the sit-in in the roadway. In the first two weeks of the
Inspired by Greta Thunberg, worldwide protest demands climate action. [SEP] Global Day of Action // Climate Handbook" at Chatuchak weekend market, which also featured a demonstration clinic on solar energy. In Istanbul there was over 7000 participants rallying under a clear blue sky. In Berlin, German ice sculpture artist Christian Funk, carved a polar bear out of 15 tons of ice in front of the Brandenburg Gate on December 7, 2007, in honor of the protest. Measuring 4m x 4m x 1.5m, it was on display all the following day as it slowly melted. In London over 10,000 supporters turned out in the rain carrying placards denouncing a planned expansion at Heathrow Airport of a
Inspired by Greta Thunberg, worldwide protest demands climate action. [SEP] 2009 G20 London summit protests // the world" in reference to the urgency of tackling climate change. On 28 March 2009, 35,000 people marched through London. At a rally in Hyde Park, they were addressed by Global Call to Action Against Poverty co-chair Kumi Naidoo, TUC General Secretary Brendan Barber, environmentalist Tony Juniper, activist comedian Mark Thomas, and global justice author Susan George amongst others. They heard calls for international action to deliver tax justice, trade justice and a Green New Deal in both rich and poor countries. The Put People First alliance of more than 160 unions, development, faith and environment groups called on the
Inspired by Greta Thunberg, worldwide protest demands climate action. [SEP] Lily Allen // other critics. On 1 October 2009, Allen and several other musicians released the world's first digital musical petition aimed at pressuring world leaders attending the December 2009 climate change summit in Copenhagen. The petition included a cover of the song "Beds Are Burning" by Midnight Oil. During the London assembly and mayoral elections in April 2016, Allen announced that she would be giving "half her vote to the Women's Equality Party" – by voting for them on the London-wide Assembly list but voting Labour elsewhere. In June 2016, Allen published several tweets and attended protests in support of Labour Party
Inspired by Greta Thunberg, worldwide protest demands climate action. [SEP] Global Day of Action // and an impassioned and well received speech, in both French and English, by 12-year-old Misha Hamu. Elsewhere in Canada, a mock funeral was conducted in Edmonton, where black-clad protesters sang songs and gave eulogies over a long black coffin, and David Suzuki spoke at a rally in Vancouver. In Bangalore, more than 1000 volunteers of Greenpeace descended on M. Chinnaswamy Stadium, dressed head to toe in yellow, holding up a large number of placards with climate messages, making human art formations and wearing fun masks. Greenpeace Southeast Asia, Thailand celebrated their event by releasing their new edition of "Save the
Inspired by Greta Thunberg, worldwide protest demands climate action. [SEP] Individual and political action on climate change // worldwide had been divested from fossil fuels. Groups such as NextGen America and Climate Hawks Vote are working in the United States to elect officials who will make action on climate change a high priority. Climate disobedience is a form of civil disobedience, deliberate action intended to critique government climate policy. In 2008, American climate activist Tim DeChristopher posed as a bidder at an auction of US Bureau of Land Management oil and gas leases of public land in Utah, won the auction, reneged on payment, and was imprisoned for 21 months. In September 2015, five climate activists known as
Lava gushes from volcano near Manila; tens of thousands flee. [SEP] Mount Pinatubo // alert triggered evacuation of the zone on June 13, and in all some 60,000 people had left the area within of the volcano before June 15. Most people temporarily relocated to Metro Manila, with some 30,000 using the Amoranto Velodrome in Quezon City as an evacuee camp. The second-largest volcanic eruption of the 20th century, and by far the largest eruption to affect a densely populated area, occurred at Mount Pinatubo on Saturday, June 15, 1991. The eruption produced high-speed avalanches of hot ash and gas, massive lahar floods and huge clouds of superheated volcanic material hundreds of kilometers across.
Lava gushes from volcano near Manila; tens of thousands flee. [SEP] Mayon // an increasing lava flow in the southern portion of the volcano and an increase in sulfur dioxide emission to 750 tonnes per day. Almost 460 earthquakes in the volcano were monitored. In the border of the danger zone, rumbling sounds like thunder were heard. Over 9,000 families (44,394 people) were evacuated by the Philippine government from the base of the volcano. No civilian was permitted within the 8 km danger zone, which was cordoned off by the Philippine military who actively patrolled to enforce the "no-go" rule and to ensure no damage or loss of property of those evacuated. Alert
Lava gushes from volcano near Manila; tens of thousands flee. [SEP] Angeles, Philippines // by the cataclysmic eruption of nearby Mount Pinatubo, with up to 60,000 people being evacuated from the city. It was the second-largest volcanic eruption of the twentieth century and, by far, the largest eruption to affect a densely populated area. The province of Pampanga, Clark specifically, were badly hit and the agricultural lands, as well as other businesses, were covered by tons of lahar. There were no casualties reported inside Clark two days from the initial eruption because the 18,000 personnel and their families were transported to Guam and the Subic Naval Base in Zambales. The eruption of Mount Pinatubo
Lava gushes from volcano near Manila; tens of thousands flee. [SEP] Kanlaon // his group that fateful day. One of the rescued Belgians, Caroline Verlinde, said she and her group were about to leave a site near the crater rim when suddenly the volcano ejected ash, stones and hot gas. She ran to a tree for cover and saw her friends being hit by falling hot tephra. She said their Filipino guide told them the smoke billowing out from the crater "was just ordinary." PHIVOLCS noted in a 22 March report that since January 2001 earthquake clusters or occurrences have been recorded by the seismic monitoring network around the volcano. These earthquakes may
Lava gushes from volcano near Manila; tens of thousands flee. [SEP] Mayon // as well. The danger zone was expanded up to 9 kilometers despite remaining at Alert Level 4 and residents from the expanded danger zone were evacuated. On January 24, 2018, column of ashes and lava fountains were spewed again with an interval of 4 to 5 hours. Fire bombs and rockfalls could also be observed and sounds from the eruptions could be heard. Classes remained suspended in some places in Albay. On January 25, 2018, column of ashes and lava fountains were spewed again. Fire bombs and rockfalls could also be observed and sounds from the eruptions could be heard.
Lava gushes from volcano near Manila; tens of thousands flee. [SEP] Taal Volcano // Manila. The volcano had several violent eruptions in the past causing loss of life in the island and the populated areas surrounding the lake, with the death toll estimated at around 5,000 to 6,000. Because of its proximity to populated areas and its eruptive history, the volcano was designated a Decade Volcano, worthy of close study to prevent future natural disasters. All volcanoes of the Philippines are part of the Pacific Ring of Fire. As of 1821, the Taal Volcano was also called Bombou. Taal Volcano and Lake are wholly located in the province of Batangas. The northern half of
Lava gushes from volcano near Manila; tens of thousands flee. [SEP] Mount Bulusan // against sediment-laden stream flows in the event of heavy and continuous rainfall. After months of little activity, the volcano suddenly erupted and sent a plume of ash high, after water reacted with the hot magma. PHIVOLCS has said such explosions are likely to continue for the coming weeks. Initially, hundreds of nearby residents evacuated on their own, but the government has stepped in to evacuate thousands more, and imposed a travel ban around the crater. They also advised aeroplanes to avoid the immediate perimeter due to ash and debris in the air. In July 13, 2014, during the 24-hour observation
Lava gushes from volcano near Manila; tens of thousands flee. [SEP] Ring of Fire // flank. Some minor volcanic activity may occur in the next few years. The 1991 eruption of Mount Pinatubo is the world's second-largest terrestrial eruption of the 20th century. Successful predictions of the onset of the climactic eruption led to the evacuation of tens of thousands of people from the surrounding areas, saving many lives, but as the surrounding areas were severely damaged by pyroclastic flows, ash deposits, and later, lahars caused by rainwater remobilising earlier volcanic deposits, thousands of houses were destroyed. Mayon Volcano is the Philippines' most active volcano. It has steep upper slopes that average 35–40° and is
Lava gushes from volcano near Manila; tens of thousands flee. [SEP] Mount Pinatubo // forecasts of an eruption by scientists from the Philippine Institute of Volcanology and Seismology and the U.S. Geological Survey enabled people living near the volcano to quickly evacuate to safer distances, saving at least 5,000 lives. A small blast at 03:41 PST on June 12 marked the beginning of a new, more violent phase of the eruption. A few hours later the same day, massive blasts lasting about half an hour generated big eruption columns, which quickly reached heights of over and which generated large pyroclastic surges extending up to from the summit in some river valleys. Fourteen hours later,
Lava gushes from volcano near Manila; tens of thousands flee. [SEP] Kanlaon // were reported in some barangays near Kanlaon Volcano. On 2 January, people in Hinigaran got sick. Many suffered from a respiratory illness with cough and flu-like symptoms. In March 29 at 6:20 pm, Kanlaon erupted for 12 minutes which produced a volcanic plume 1500 meters above the crater and a "booming sound" was heard in some barangays near the volcano. According to the police department of Canlaon City, several fire balls, which were coming from the crater of the volcano, started to flow following a booming sound and causing a bush fire. PHIVOLCS issued alert level number 1. No casualties
Group launches plan to improve behavioral care access. [SEP] Improving Access to Psychological Therapies // as the most impressive plan to disseminate stepped-care cognitive behaviour therapy. General: Improving Access to Psychological Therapies Improving Access to Psychological Therapies (IAPT) is a National Health Service (England) initiative to provide more psychotherapy to the general population. It was developed and introduced by the Labour Party as a result of economic evaluations by Professor Lord Richard Layard, based on new therapy guidelines from the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence as promoted by clinical psychologist David M. Clark. The aim of the project is to increase the provision of evidence-based treatments for common mental health conditions such as
Group launches plan to improve behavioral care access. [SEP] Behavioral health outcomes management // better results than a poor psychiatrist using a well-documented anti-depressant. A patented BHOM application, the Treatment Outcome Package or TOP, system helps large organizations (health plans, community mental health centers, child welfare organizations and hospitals) identify which therapists are getting excellent outcomes with specific diagnostic or domain-specific problems, and refer incoming patients screened with an initial evaluation of the TOP to the most effective clinicians. Behavioral health outcomes management requires a host of interconnected components in order to create the most benefit for patients. These are reviewed below. Unless clinicians have the time to score, record and chart each client
Group launches plan to improve behavioral care access. [SEP] Healthcare Professionals for Healthcare Reform // The plan continued to develop, as the group grew and attracted people of many disciplines involved in the healthcare system. As the distance between members grew, discussions were mostly conducted by email, blog posts and telephone. Among the many issues that were discussed during this time, many felt that the plan should have a catchy name. Several proposals for names were submitted and the group voted for Dr, Kimberly Yonkers’ contribution: The Expanding Medical and Behavioral Resources with Access to Care for Everyone (EMBRACE) Health Plan. In beginning of 2008, with most of the elements of the plan now shaping
Group launches plan to improve behavioral care access. [SEP] 21st Century Cures Act // of 2016 (); the Comprehensive Justice and Mental Health Act of 2015 (, ); the Mental Health Awareness and Improvement Act of 2015 (, ); the Justice and Mental Health Collaboration Act of 2015 (); and the Behavioral Health Care Integration Act of 2016 (). Division C of the law, the “Increasing Choice, Access, and Quality in Health Care for Americans Act,” concerns Medicare programs and federal tax laws related to health plans for small employers. The Act defined interoperability and prohibited information blocking. Another bill with the same name, , was introduced by Fred Upton (R–MI) on May 19,
Group launches plan to improve behavioral care access. [SEP] Primary Care Behavioral health // prototype for cost offset research and spawned future projects among managed care organizations, with goal of reducing costs. In 1987, Humana followed suit by studying brief behavioral intervention among Medicare recipients in Florida, with the intention of reducing medical utilization among recent widows and widowers. Known as the Bereavement Program, Humana learned after 2 years $1400 could be saved per patient via brief group intervention for bereavement. In the 1990s, other HMOs and regional group practices began to integrate behavioral health services into primary care, including Kaiser Permanente, Healthcare partners, Group Health Cooperative of the Puget Sound, Kaiser Group Health
Group launches plan to improve behavioral care access. [SEP] Primary Care Behavioral health // behavior". "The premise is that mismatches in models (i.e., expectations about illness and health interactions) between the patient and the health provider may render medical care ‘psychologically’ inaccessible to ethnic minorities, resulting in poorer health outcomes for these populations (possibly via noncompliance)." Strategies that help bridge mismatches improve treatment outcomes and make care more accessible for underserved populations. By establishing a role in primary care, the front-line of health-care delivery, Behavioral Health providers gain direct access to patients and providers. Healthy People 2010, published in 2007, recommended "that early intervention efforts to protect and promote mental health, including screening and
Group launches plan to improve behavioral care access. [SEP] Improving Access to Psychological Therapies // Lamb, who championed IAPT within the coalition government 2010-2015, disagreed with picking faults with such an extensive and world-leading advance in evidence-based treatment. Others lauded the success in rising numbers of referrals, but warned of the failure to improve recovery rates. It was noted that both antidepressant prescribing and psychiatric disability claims have continued to rise. In 2017 fewer than half of the Clinical Commissioning Groups met the target (15.8%) for the number of people who should be accessing talking therapies. In December 2010, Paul Burstow, Minister for Care Services, announced an extension to the IAPT project to include Children
Group launches plan to improve behavioral care access. [SEP] Mental health reform in North Carolina // not adequately managed and continued to grow at a high rate each year. Starting in 2005, the state established one LME as a pilot Medicaid managed care vendor through the use of the Medicaid 1915 (b)(c) Waiver Program. Piedmont Behavioral Health (PBH) served as the pilot program and serves Cabarrus, Davidson, Rowan, Stanly, and Union counties. In 2008, the General Assembly supported the planned expansion of the pilot program through S.L. 2008-107. Then S.L. 2010-31 was adopted and required the designation of two additional expansion sites. Most recently, S.L. 2011-264 instructed the North Carolina Department of Health and Human Services
Group launches plan to improve behavioral care access. [SEP] Mental health reform in North Carolina // Program provides for performance evaluation. Status reports are required to be submitted to the Legislative Oversight Committee and then be published for all stakeholders. The current schedule for official status reports to be submitted to the General Assembly includes the remaining dates: 10/1/12, 2/1/13, and 10/1/13. Reports will address the Strategic Plan's six objectives and 23 action steps. The six objectives are: Additional quantitative and qualitative evaluation processes are being undertaken. The Federal government, through the Centers for Medicaid and Medicare Services, requires both an External Quality Review and a Global Continuous Quality Improvement Team. The State is also forming
Group launches plan to improve behavioral care access. [SEP] Ross-Loos Medical Group // health care could be improved by combining prepayment of services, eliminating the financial barriers faced by patients at the time of needed care, with the sharing of medical records and the ease of consultation in a medical group. The focus was on the improvement of medical care quality, rather than financial success, and many concepts in those plans built on a public health approach that encouraged prevention. The plans included prenatal care, well-baby visits, and immunizations in standard benefit packages, with small or zero copayments, at a time that even the hospital costs of maternity stays were often excluded from
There's no scientific conclusion that (being gay) is genetic. [SEP] Simon LeVay // AIDS. LeVay cautioned against misinterpreting his findings in a 1994 interview: "It’s important to stress what I didn’t find. I did not prove that homosexuality is genetic, or find a genetic cause for being gay. I didn't show that gay men are born that way, the most common mistake people make in interpreting my work. Nor did I locate a gay center in the brain. The INAH3 is less likely to be the sole gay nucleus of the brain than a part of a chain of nuclei engaged in men and women's sexual behavior." Some critics of LeVay questioned the
There's no scientific conclusion that (being gay) is genetic. [SEP] Queer Science // criticized LeVay for ignoring the literature on the "nature versus nurture" controversy. He also questioned LeVay's attempt to use genetic evidence to support the claim that homosexuality is immutable, arguing that the existence of genes that influence the development of homosexuality does not mean that homosexuality must be immutable. He noted that genes associated with particular behaviors "are probably often expressed in the way they influence individuals to respond to their environments" and that because a gene could influence the development of homosexuality in various different ways, for example by affecting how open a person is to "same-sex seduction", genetic
There's no scientific conclusion that (being gay) is genetic. [SEP] Biology and sexual orientation // was given strong support by the 2004 Italian study demonstrating increased fecundity in the female matrilineal relatives of gay men. As originally pointed out by Hamer, even a modest increase in reproductive capacity in females carrying a "gay gene" could easily account for its maintenance at high levels in the population. The "gay uncle hypothesis" posits that people who themselves do not have children may nonetheless increase the prevalence of their family's genes in future generations by providing resources (e.g., food, supervision, defense, shelter) to the offspring of their closest relatives. This hypothesis is an extension of the theory of
There's no scientific conclusion that (being gay) is genetic. [SEP] Biology and sexual orientation // stated that "There is considerable evidence that human sexual orientation is genetically influenced, so it is not known how homosexuality, which tends to lower reproductive success, is maintained in the population at a relatively high frequency." They hypothesized that "while genes predisposing to homosexuality reduce homosexuals' reproductive success, they may confer some advantage in heterosexuals who carry them". Their results suggested that "genes predisposing to homosexuality may confer a mating advantage in heterosexuals, which could help explain the evolution and maintenance of homosexuality in the population". However, in the same study, the authors noted that "nongenetic alternative explanations cannot be
There's no scientific conclusion that (being gay) is genetic. [SEP] Biological determinism of human gender roles // a single cause has not been determined as the cause of homosexuality, many scholars theorize that a combination of biological and social causes determine one's sexual orientation. Gay rights advocates believe that proving that homosexuality has a definite biological basis will prove it to be an unchangeable characteristic, thus allowing homosexuals to be protected under the Fourteenth Amendment in the United States. One area of research that has been a valuable tool for gay rights activists has been Dean Hamer's work studying the "gay gene". Another researcher who worked with Hamer in finding evidence for biological influence in male homosexuality
There's no scientific conclusion that (being gay) is genetic. [SEP] Biology and sexual orientation // in and of itself, for the expression of such a phenotype. Some studies have found correlations between physiology of people and their sexuality; these studies provide evidence which suggests that: Whether genetic or other physiological determinants form the basis of sexual orientation is a highly politicized issue. "The Advocate", a U.S. gay and lesbian newsmagazine, reported in 1996 that 61% of its readers believed that "it would mostly help gay and lesbian rights if homosexuality were found to be biologically determined". A cross-national study in the United States, the Philippines, and Sweden found that those who believed that "homosexuals are
There's no scientific conclusion that (being gay) is genetic. [SEP] The Science of Desire // homosexuality, and argued that some of his claims were incorrect, that more work needed to be done to confirm or refute his genetic findings, and that his use of the term "gay gene" was misleading. Hamer's treatment of psychology and psychiatry was also criticized as biased. Hamer argues that human sexuality can and should be studied scientifically and discusses his findings about Xq28, a region of the X chromosome. According to Hamer, he shifted his area of research from metallothionein to the genetics of homosexuality after reading the naturalist Charles Darwin's "The Descent of Man, and Selection in Relation to
There's no scientific conclusion that (being gay) is genetic. [SEP] Gay, Straight, and the Reason Why // inheritance of a limited number of "feminizing" genes might make males more attractive to females by giving them increased empathy and kindness, or rendering them less aggressive, in turn making them more successful in reproductive terms, while a larger number of feminizing genes might result in male homosexuality. LeVay writes that a study has provided supporting evidence. Reviewing his work on the hypothalamus, LeVay defends his 1991 study from the criticism that the differences in brain structure between gay and straight men which it found were simply a side-effect of AIDS, which all the gay men in the study had
There's no scientific conclusion that (being gay) is genetic. [SEP] Sexual orientation // homosexual, heterosexual, bisexual, or asexual. Current scientific investigation usually seeks to find biological explanations for the adoption of a particular sexual orientation. Scientific studies have found a number of statistical biological differences between gay people and heterosexuals, which may result from the same underlying cause as sexual orientation itself. Genes may be related to the development of sexual orientation. A twin study from 2001 appears to exclude genes as a major factor, while a twin study from 2010 found that homosexuality was explained by both genes and environmental factors. However, experimental design of the available twin studies have made their
There's no scientific conclusion that (being gay) is genetic. [SEP] Homosexuality // not believe that sexual orientation is a matter of choice. The American Academy of Pediatrics stated in "Pediatrics" in 2004: The American Psychological Association, American Psychiatric Association, and National Association of Social Workers stated in 2006: Research into the causes of homosexuality plays a role in political and social debates and also raises concerns about genetic profiling and prenatal testing. Despite numerous attempts, no "gay gene" has been identified. However, there is substantial evidence for a genetic basis of homosexuality especially in males based on twin studies, with some association with regions of Chromosome 8 and with the Xq28 gene
In 2010 alone, 1,270 infants were reported to have died following attempted abortions and notably that is only one year. [SEP] Abortion // survive briefly. Longer term survival is possible after 22 weeks. If medical staff observe signs of life, they may be required to provide care: emergency medical care if the child has a good chance of survival and palliative care if not. Induced fetal demise before termination of pregnancy after 20–21 weeks gestation is recommended to avoid this. Death following live birth caused by abortion is given the ; data are identified as either fetus or newborn. Between 1999 and 2013, in the U.S., the CDC recorded 531 such deaths for newborns, approximately 4 per 100,000 abortions. There are two commonly
In 2010 alone, 1,270 infants were reported to have died following attempted abortions and notably that is only one year. [SEP] Unintended pregnancy // 3% of all live births. According to the 2010 census, there were 1,527,020 adopted children in the United States, representing 2.5 percent of all U.S. children. Over the six years between 1995 and 2000 there were an estimated 338 million pregnancies that were unintended and unwanted worldwide (28% of the total 1.2 billion pregnancies during that period). These unwanted pregnancies resulted in nearly 700,000 maternal deaths (approximately one-fifth of maternal deaths during that period). More than one-third of the deaths were from problems associated with pregnancy or childbirth, but the majority (64%) were from complications from unsafe or unsanitary abortion.
In 2010 alone, 1,270 infants were reported to have died following attempted abortions and notably that is only one year. [SEP] Abortion // abortions result in 70,000 deaths and 5 million disabilities per year. Complications of unsafe abortion account for approximately an eighth of maternal mortalities worldwide, though this varies by region. Secondary infertility caused by an unsafe abortion affects an estimated 24 million women. The rate of unsafe abortions has increased from 44% to 49% between 1995 and 2008. Health education, access to family planning, and improvements in health care during and after abortion have been proposed to address this phenomenon. Although it is very uncommon, women undergoing surgical abortion after 18 weeks gestation sometimes give birth to a fetus that may
In 2010 alone, 1,270 infants were reported to have died following attempted abortions and notably that is only one year. [SEP] Anti-abortion violence // connection), and a clinic escort; Seven murders occurred in the 1990s. According to statistics gathered by the National Abortion Federation (NAF), an organization of abortion providers, since 1977 in the United States and Canada, there have been 17 attempted murders, 383 death threats, 153 incidents of assault or battery, 13 wounded, 100 butyric acid stink bomb attacks, 373 physical invasions, 41 bombings, 655 anthrax threats, and 3 kidnappings committed against abortion providers. Between 1997 and 1990 77 death threats were made with 250 made between 1991 and 1999 . Attempted murders in the U.S. included: IN 1985 45% of clinics
In 2010 alone, 1,270 infants were reported to have died following attempted abortions and notably that is only one year. [SEP] Abortion in Paraguay // out of 100 deaths of young women are the result of illegal abortions. Concerning this death rate, Paraguay has one of the highest in the region. In April 2015, a story about a 10-year-old Paraguayan girl who was 22 weeks pregnant as a result of having allegedly been raped and impregnated by her stepfather came to light. The pregnancy had been discovered that same month upon the girl’s mother having brought her to a local hospital in order to receive medical treatment for abdominal pain, which was found to have been related to the pregnancy. Calls from her mother as
In 2010 alone, 1,270 infants were reported to have died following attempted abortions and notably that is only one year. [SEP] Abortion // 4.1% at 16 through 20 weeks and 1.4% at more than 21 weeks. 90.9% of these were classified as having been done by "curettage" (suction-aspiration, dilation and curettage, dilation and evacuation), 7.7% by "medical" means (mifepristone), 0.4% by "intrauterine instillation" (saline or prostaglandin), and 1.0% by "other" (including hysterotomy and hysterectomy). According to the CDC, due to data collection difficulties the data must be viewed as tentative and some fetal deaths reported beyond 20 weeks may be natural deaths erroneously classified as abortions if the removal of the dead fetus is accomplished by the same procedure as an induced abortion.
In 2010 alone, 1,270 infants were reported to have died following attempted abortions and notably that is only one year. [SEP] Abortion // are performed annually, with 97% taking place in developing countries. Unsafe abortions are believed to result in millions of injuries. Estimates of deaths vary according to methodology, and have ranged from 37,000 to 70,000 in the past decade; deaths from unsafe abortion account for around 13% of all maternal deaths. The World Health Organization believes that mortality has fallen since the 1990s. To reduce the number of unsafe abortions, public health organizations have generally advocated emphasizing the legalization of abortion, training of medical personnel, and ensuring access to reproductive-health services. In response, opponents of abortion point out that abortion bans
In 2010 alone, 1,270 infants were reported to have died following attempted abortions and notably that is only one year. [SEP] Unsafe abortion // needles and ballpoint pens, and by swallowing toxic chemicals like bleach and laundry detergent. However, the number of deaths declined significantly into the 1960s and 1970s. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention estimates that in 1972, 130,000 women attempted self-induced abortions or obtained illegal abortions, resulting in 39 deaths. In 2005, the "Detroit News" reported that a 16-year-old boy beat his pregnant, under-age girlfriend with a bat at her request to abort a fetus. The young couple lived in Michigan, where parental consent is required to receive an abortion. In Indiana, where there are also parental consent laws, a
In 2010 alone, 1,270 infants were reported to have died following attempted abortions and notably that is only one year. [SEP] Self-induced abortion // to treat a woman who had nearly died from such an attempt. A study concluded in 1968 determined that over 500,000 illegal abortions were performed every year in the United States, a portion of which were performed by women acting alone. The study suggested that the number of women dying as a result of self-induced abortions exceeded those resulting from abortions performed by another person. A 1979 study noted that many women who required hospitalization following self-induced abortion attempts were admitted under the pretext of having had a miscarriage or spontaneous abortion. WHO estimates that approximately 22 million abortions continue
In 2010 alone, 1,270 infants were reported to have died following attempted abortions and notably that is only one year. [SEP] Self-induced abortion // to be performed unsafely each year, resulting in the death of an estimated 47,000 women and disabilities for an additional 5 million women. Almost every one of these deaths and disabilities could have been prevented through sexual education, family planning, and the provision of safe abortion services. Abortion pills, which began be used by women themselves in Brazil in the 1980s, can prevent many of these deaths from unsafe abortion. Although "Roe v. Wade" made abortion more readily available throughout the U.S., it remains a crime in most jurisdictions for a woman to attempt to perform an abortion on herself.
India allows limited exports of anti-malaria drug after Trump warns of retaliation. [SEP] Inder Singh (philanthropist) // longer-term development and licensing of anti-malarial drugs. In 2008, Singh gained note for negotiating a licensing agreement to allow the production of artemisinin, a key anti-malarial ingredient, at 70% below the then-current market price. By reducing the price, it was possible to provide malaria treatment to 12 million additional residents of Africa and south Asia. Malaria currently afflicts between 300 million and 500 million people per year and kills more than 700,000. Equally importantly, Singh has become a prominent speaker before national and international bodies. For example, in both March and May 2010, he advocated before the World Health Organization
India allows limited exports of anti-malaria drug after Trump warns of retaliation. [SEP] Mass drug administration // part of a programme of intensified surveillance, case management, health education, and residual spraying. The incidence of malaria decreased so that, by the end of 1979, the authors considered the intervention to be a success. In 1980, in areas of Andhra Pradesh State in India, residual spraying was combined with a MDA. During the period of lowest malaria incidence a single dose of chloroquine plus primaquine was distributed to the whole population in eight villages. A second dose was given after an interval of 2–3 months. This project failed to reduce malaria incidence and was considered to be a failure.
India allows limited exports of anti-malaria drug after Trump warns of retaliation. [SEP] Jeeri R. Reddy // Corporation donated $173,050 worth of Rapid Diagnostic Tests (RDTs) for malaria in Zambia and actively participated in the prevention of child deaths due to Malaria infections. Reddy was personally invited by the President George W. Bush and First Lady Laura Bush to the White House for Malaria Awareness Day sponsored by US President Malaria Initiative (PMI) on Wednesday, April 25, 2007. A notable inexpensive vaccine developed by Reddy is for Meningococcal meningitis for Prevention of Meningitis disease outbreaks in sub-Saharan Africa, His main objective is to facilitate affordable biological medicines to the resource poor countries. His leadership on global health
India allows limited exports of anti-malaria drug after Trump warns of retaliation. [SEP] Access to medicines // to manufacture generic versions of drugs. These generic drug companies were able to produce low-priced drugs that were considered among the lowest in the world. This allowed India to provide free antiretroviral treatment to 340,000 HIV infected individuals in the country. Majority of adult antiretroviral drugs purchased for donor-funded programs in developing countries were supplied by Indian generic drug companies. In compliance to the Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS), India reintroduced patent laws for drugs in 2015. The majority of deaths from vaccine-preventable diseases occur in low and middle income countries. In low-income countries, more than
India allows limited exports of anti-malaria drug after Trump warns of retaliation. [SEP] Counterfeit medications // effectively reduce importation and the subsequent risk of exposure to counterfeit medicines, especially among particular subpopulations. Fake antimalarial medication has been threatening efforts to control malaria in Africa. According to the World Health Organization (WHO), in 2011, 64% of Nigeria's imported antimalarial drugs were fake. Nigeria is Africa's largest drugs market, and over 70% of its drugs are imported from India and China, considered the "biggest source of fakes.". According to the International Crime Police Organization (Interpol), Africa is at the heart of the "biggest black market in the world". The Jacques Chirac Foundation estimates that the trafficking of pharmaceuticals
India allows limited exports of anti-malaria drug after Trump warns of retaliation. [SEP] Presidency of Donald Trump // Navarro as the first Director of the National Trade Council. In April 2017, Trump imposed a tariff on Canada's softwood lumber industry, following complaints from dairy farmers in Wisconsin about Canada's dairy pricing policy. The Trump administration announced a deal with China in May 2017 where China would increase imports of US beef, speed up its approvals of genetically modified products and allow foreign-owned financial groups to offer credit rating services in China while the United States would allow imports of cooked poultry meat from China, encourage exports of liquid natural gas to China, and tacitly endorse Beijing's geopolitical and
India allows limited exports of anti-malaria drug after Trump warns of retaliation. [SEP] World Malaria Day // group Malaria No More. Other former U.S. Presidents are involved in anti-malaria efforts. Former President Bill Clinton's Clinton Foundation includes an anti-malaria component that, according to director Inder Singh has distributed anti-malaria drugs to millions in Africa and Asia. Many prominent companies, organizations, and celebrities have declared initiatives to join the fight against malaria to mark this day. These include a $3 million "challenge grant" announced by ExxonMobil to match donations dollar by dollar to Malaria No More, as part of the "Idol Gives Back" episodes of American Idol, which was aired on Malaria Awareness Day. Major League Soccer Commissioner
India allows limited exports of anti-malaria drug after Trump warns of retaliation. [SEP] Pharmaceutical industry in China // these advances China is still the leading manufacturer of counterfeit drugs, which claim the lives of people worldwide every year. June 2009, Nigeria has seized a large consignment of fake anti-malarial drugs with the label of 'made in India' but found that the medicines were in fact produced in China and were imported into the African countries.[4] The authorities have maintained that the incident is not isolated, indicating that it was just the tip of the iceberg. Other former functions of the ministry have been assigned to different government bodies. The most important of these was the transfer of medical
India allows limited exports of anti-malaria drug after Trump warns of retaliation. [SEP] New Delhi metallo-beta-lactamase 1 // disputed the conclusion of the August 2010 "Lancet" study that the gene originated in India, describing this conclusion as "unfair" and stating that Indian hospitals are perfectly safe for treatment. Indian politicians have described linking this new drug resistance gene to India as "malicious propaganda" and blamed multinational corporations for what they describe as selective malignancy. A Bharatiya Janata Party politician has instead argued that the journal article is bogus and represented an attempt to scare medical tourists away from India. The Indian Ministry of Health released a statement "strongly refut[ing]" naming the enzyme "New Delhi". A co-author of the
India allows limited exports of anti-malaria drug after Trump warns of retaliation. [SEP] Abhay and Rani Bang // nets. They also run a mobile medical unit in the forty eight tribal villages in the Dhanora block of Gadchiroli district and have a network of village volunteers trained in providing primary care in these villages. In July 2017, the Government of Maharashtra formed a task force to control the spread of malaria in the district of Gadchiroli. Dr. Abhay Bang has been appointed as the head of this task force which comprises the nonprofit SEARCH, Tata Trusts, National Institute of Research and Tribal Health (NIRTH) and the Government of Maharashtra. Dr. Abhay Bang is chairing a 13-member expert committee
“if your child gets this virus their going to hospital alone in a van with people they don’t know...to be with people they don’t know… you will be at home without them in their time of need.” [SEP] Nsambya Home Care // or her is broken since the child's care-giver handles the counselling and caring that involves the child. The children's own stories about their feeling and problems they meet regarding HIV/AIDS are tested and counselling shared. The importance of disclosure to the child, confidentiality and information sharing concerning the child's sero-status are analyzed. "Nsambya Home Care informs people about the spread of HIV/AIDS. Maria Nannyonga said that AIDS is spread mainly through having unprotected sex with an infected person. Secondly, she said the HIV virus is spread through blood transfusion. This still a big problem because some of the blood donated
“if your child gets this virus their going to hospital alone in a van with people they don’t know...to be with people they don’t know… you will be at home without them in their time of need.” [SEP] Carlo Urbani // Urbani had become infected with the virus himself. His Bangkok hospital room was an improvised isolation ward, so his wife, Giuliana Chiorrini, could only talk to him by intercom. Chiorrini saw him conscious just once. It is said that Urbani had an argument with Chiorrini who said it wasn't responsible behaviour for the father of three children ages 4 to 17 to risk his life treating such sick patients but Urbani replied, "If I can't work in such situations, what am I here for? Answering e-mails, going to cocktail parties and pushing paper?" As his lungs weakened he was put
“if your child gets this virus their going to hospital alone in a van with people they don’t know...to be with people they don’t know… you will be at home without them in their time of need.” [SEP] St. Camillus Centre // were alert to the children's needs as the parents’ health declined due to AIDS related illnesses and subsequent death. The volunteers informed the CGPU of children who were at risk and required an alternative living environment. "“We arranged to visit a small mountain village and came upon three small children who looked so dirty and hungry. We entered the house only to find their mother was still in bed with a cover over her shoulders. It appeared she had been dead for several days but the children were just too young and frightened to understand. The caregiver brought the children
“if your child gets this virus their going to hospital alone in a van with people they don’t know...to be with people they don’t know… you will be at home without them in their time of need.” [SEP] WiRED International // been unable to receive adequate treatment for life-threatening illnesses because of a war-damaged health care system. Selnow was traveling by van from Prishtina (Priština), Kosovo, to Skopje, Macedonia, which, at the time, had the nearest operational airport. In the van was a five-year-old boy and a nurse. The nurse explained that Medecins Sans Frontieres was funding the boy’s travel to France for heart surgery, but that budgets couldn’t pay for his parents to go along. “Will you go with him?” Selnow asked. “No, I’ll drop him off and someone from the hospital will meet him at de Gaulle Airport.” “So,
“if your child gets this virus their going to hospital alone in a van with people they don’t know...to be with people they don’t know… you will be at home without them in their time of need.” [SEP] What Lies Below // him because if he doesn't have anyone there, he's basically going to regress and go back to the place, I think mentally, that he was in when he was in the mental institution. And of course we don't want that." One of the episode's scenes involves an infected woman jumping out of the building onto a van in an attempt to spread the virus further. To simulate her 160-feet fall, stuntwoman Angela Uyeda was placed in a crane 10 to 15 feet above the van and asked to jump onto the van below. The crew removed the roof structure on
“if your child gets this virus their going to hospital alone in a van with people they don’t know...to be with people they don’t know… you will be at home without them in their time of need.” [SEP] James Joseph Richardson // their teachers noticed they were showing strange symptoms, and the principal immediately took them to hospital. One of the teachers went to check on the three children at home, found them to be sick as well, and they were also taken to the hospital. Word was sent to the parents that just one of their children was ill and that a parent needed to come to the hospital. Both decided to leave the groves to go to the hospital, unaware that six of their children were already dead by that time. Joseph H. Minoughan of the Arcadia Police Department was
“if your child gets this virus their going to hospital alone in a van with people they don’t know...to be with people they don’t know… you will be at home without them in their time of need.” [SEP] Child neglect // have drug abuse problems and educational failure when they grow up. There are various types of child neglect. Child neglect can also be described by degrees of severity and the responses considered warranted by communities and government agencies. Children may be left at home alone, which can result in negative consequences. Being left at home alone can leave young people feeling scared, vulnerable and not knowing when their parents are going to return. The frequency and duration of being left at home alone may range from every evening, to several days or even weeks at a time. Also, young children
“if your child gets this virus their going to hospital alone in a van with people they don’t know...to be with people they don’t know… you will be at home without them in their time of need.” [SEP] Infection in childcare // childcare may be willing to give unnecessary medical care to their children when advised to do so by childcare workers and even if it is against the advice of health care providers. In particular, children in childcare are more likely to be given antibiotics than children outside of childcare. The presumption behind the idea of a "childcare infection" is that a place in which many children come into contact with each other can be a focus of infection, which is a place where infections are able to spread from person to person. Flu and respiratory tract infection are lessened in
“if your child gets this virus their going to hospital alone in a van with people they don’t know...to be with people they don’t know… you will be at home without them in their time of need.” [SEP] Health in the United States // cited this increased use of exemptions as contributing to loss of herd immunity within these communities, and hence an increasing number of disease outbreaks. The American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) advises physicians to respect the refusal of parents to vaccinate their child after adequate discussion, unless the child is put at significant risk of harm (e.g., during an epidemic, or after a deep and contaminated puncture wound). Under such circumstances, the AAP states that parental refusal of immunization constitutes a form of medical neglect and should be reported to state child protective services agencies. See Vaccination schedule for the vaccination
“if your child gets this virus their going to hospital alone in a van with people they don’t know...to be with people they don’t know… you will be at home without them in their time of need.” [SEP] Congenital cytomegalovirus infection // of exposure to CMV. Since CMV is transmitted through contact with infected body fluids, including urine and saliva, child care providers (meaning day care workers, special education teachers, as well as mothers) should be educated about the risks of CMV infection and the precautions they can take. Day care workers appear to be at a greater risk than hospital and other health care providers, and this may be due in part to the increased emphasis on personal hygiene in the health care setting. Recommendations for individuals providing care for infants and children: People infected with CMV develop antibodies to it,
Italy has concluded Covid-19 is not a virus, and people are actually dying of amplified global 5G electromagnetic radiation poisoning. [SEP] Vatican Radio lawsuit // transmissions breaking through on telephones, and other electronic devices (due in many cases to the devices having poor electromagnetic immunity to the strong signals). The Region of Lazio has also found that the people in the area around the transmitters are more likely to have leukemia; the closer those in the examined sample lived to the radio station, the more likely they were to have leukemia, up to six times the Italian national average. This study was not peer reviewed. Dramatizing the study, a well known Italian TV program called "Le Iene" went to the radio station and replaced the
Italy has concluded Covid-19 is not a virus, and people are actually dying of amplified global 5G electromagnetic radiation poisoning. [SEP] Mobile phone radiation and health // the plaintiffs, accepted a motion to exclude the testimony of the plaintiffs' experts, and denied a motion to exclude the testimony of the defendants' experts. Two separate cases in Italy, in 2009 and 2017, resulted in pensions being awarded to plaintiffs who had claimed their benign brain tumors were the result of prolonged mobile phone use in professional tasks, for 5–6 hours a day, which they ruled different from non-professional use. In 2000, the World Health Organization (WHO) recommended that the precautionary principle could be voluntarily adopted in this case. It follows the recommendations of the European Community for environmental
Italy has concluded Covid-19 is not a virus, and people are actually dying of amplified global 5G electromagnetic radiation poisoning. [SEP] Reaper (novel) // electrocuting them at the keyboards on PCs or using CaV as a weapon. After a woman is killed by CaV in Washington, Nick begins to believe that computers are killing people. His belief is extended after joining an autopsy to learn that the virus attacks the brain and tells it to calcify all the cells. What terrifies him the most is the fact that the virus has only affected the people with the beta test run on the Telecon system. This starts the conspiracy that the killer is a computer virus that produces a subliminal light pattern that causes the
Italy has concluded Covid-19 is not a virus, and people are actually dying of amplified global 5G electromagnetic radiation poisoning. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // being followed up. On 31 May 2013, the Italian health ministry announced its first case of MERS-CoV in a 45-year-old man who had traveled to Jordan. The patient is being currently treated in a hospital in Tuscany and his condition was reported as not life-threatening. On 1 November 2013, a woman who had recently traveled to Saudi Arabia for the Hajj, contracted the disease. She is stated to be in stable condition, and investigators from the World Health Organization are investigating whom she came in contact with. In February 2013, the first UK case of the novel coronavirus was confirmed
Italy has concluded Covid-19 is not a virus, and people are actually dying of amplified global 5G electromagnetic radiation poisoning. [SEP] Lujo mammarenavirus // under U.S. law. Only 5 cases of this virus have ever been reported; all 5 were identified in September and October 2008, and 4 were fatal. Those infections that proved fatal caused death within 10–13 days of showing symptoms. All four patients in which infection proved fatal first showed signs of improvement and then went into respiratory distress, displayed neurological problems, and had circulatory issues that resulted in collapse. The discovery of this novel virus was described following a highly fatal nosocomial (hospital) outbreak of VHF in Johannesburg. The identification of this virus was the first new arenavirus discovered in
Italy has concluded Covid-19 is not a virus, and people are actually dying of amplified global 5G electromagnetic radiation poisoning. [SEP] Carlo Urbani // Urbani had become infected with the virus himself. His Bangkok hospital room was an improvised isolation ward, so his wife, Giuliana Chiorrini, could only talk to him by intercom. Chiorrini saw him conscious just once. It is said that Urbani had an argument with Chiorrini who said it wasn't responsible behaviour for the father of three children ages 4 to 17 to risk his life treating such sick patients but Urbani replied, "If I can't work in such situations, what am I here for? Answering e-mails, going to cocktail parties and pushing paper?" As his lungs weakened he was put
Italy has concluded Covid-19 is not a virus, and people are actually dying of amplified global 5G electromagnetic radiation poisoning. [SEP] Vatican Radio lawsuit // the radiation that a radio station can emit. In the vicinity of these pylons, the radiation emitted can be more than the double the amount allowed by Italian law, as verified officially by the Italian Civil Defense and the Department for the Environment of the region of Lazio. However, these levels are comparable to those allowed in other countries and are frequency dependent. Residents who have moved to the area near the transmitters have experienced other disturbances relating to the station, as is common near transmitter sites the world over. The most common complaints are that one can hear the
Italy has concluded Covid-19 is not a virus, and people are actually dying of amplified global 5G electromagnetic radiation poisoning. [SEP] VVVVID // VVVVID VVVVID is an Italian video on demand service and a virtual community, with an offering that includes international movies, anime, series, music videos, and short thematic videos. VVVVID's service is free of charge and available exclusively in Italy on the Web and via dedicated apps for iPad and for Android smartphones and tablets. Registration is required. In December 2014, for the first time in Italy, VVVVID has streamed the Italian dubbed version of a japanese Animated series ("Tokyo Ghoul"), without any previous airing on traditional TV, followed in July 2015 with "Tokyo Ghoul √A", in January 2016 by "One-Punch
Italy has concluded Covid-19 is not a virus, and people are actually dying of amplified global 5G electromagnetic radiation poisoning. [SEP] Space Griffon VF-9 // - she intends to spread the virus to Earth in an act of revenge on A-MAX for confining the scientists to the facility to work on the virus. Konrad, Maria and Jim ambush the bio-monster in a cross-fire, but Konrad is cornered and forfeits his life by ordering Jim and Maria to open fire and kill the creature. During Francis’s interrogation, she recognizes Jim and Maria recent symptoms as signs of early infection. She notes that possession of Lunar Tears accelerates the process (explaining Smiley’s rapid infection), which would be dire for an outbreak on Earth as Lunar Tears are
Italy has concluded Covid-19 is not a virus, and people are actually dying of amplified global 5G electromagnetic radiation poisoning. [SEP] Apocalypse II: Revelation // contains a powerful computer virus. The group quickly realize its use - O.N.E. has been sending VR headsets to everybody on Earth, to be activated on the upcoming 'Day of Wonders' but Stone is skeptical about the Christian Underground - he confronts Hannah about God's cruelty in taking millions hostage; however, the former acknowledges O.N.E. as the greater evil and agrees to help upload the virus. Spino is able to sneak Stone into Headquarters by passing him off as a guard. At midnight, the Day of Wonders begins. Cindy, tempted by curiosity, tries on the headset - and encounters Franco
Rick Perry Says he "got lobbied" by a woman with late-stage cancer about vaccinating Texas girls against a virus that can cause cervical cancer. [SEP] Rick Perry // In February 2007, Perry issued an executive order mandating that Texas girls receive the HPV vaccine, which protects against some strains of the human papilloma virus, a contributing factor to some forms of cervical cancer. Following the move, news outlets reported various apparent financial connections between Perry and the vaccine's manufacturer, Merck. Merck's political action committee has contributed $28,500 since 2001 to Perry's campaigns. The order was criticized by some parents and social conservatives, and a lawsuit was filed later that month. In May 2007, the Texas Legislature passed a bill undoing the order; Perry did not veto the bill,
Rick Perry Says he "got lobbied" by a woman with late-stage cancer about vaccinating Texas girls against a virus that can cause cervical cancer. [SEP] Rick Scarborough // "subjecting people to becoming AIDS sufferers". He also endorsed Mike Huckabee for president. Concerning the decision of Texas Governor Rick Perry to vaccinate all 6th grade girls against those HPV strains that are most likely to produce cancer after infection, Scarborough said, "Nor we can not overlook the moral dimension. The governor's action seems to signify that God's moral law regarding sex outside of marriage can be transgressed without consequence." He has been accused of not being a real Baptist. Rick Scarborough Rick Scarborough is a Christian right political advocate and former Southern Baptist pastor from Pearland, Texas, who heads
Rick Perry Says he "got lobbied" by a woman with late-stage cancer about vaccinating Texas girls against a virus that can cause cervical cancer. [SEP] Prelude to the 2012 Republican Party presidential primaries // Texas to vaccinate teenage girls against HPV. Bachmann said Perry was influenced by the Merck pharmaceutical company, and said the vaccination trampled on the girls' rights, who she said "didn't have a choice". Bachmann told the media that a voter came to her and claimed her child developed mental retardation from the vaccine. After scientists disputed her claim as baseless, she refused to retract the statement, and insisted the vaccine had dangerous side effects. According to "The Weekly Standard", Bachmann's scientific illiteracy on the HPV scare created an implosion for her campaign, which lost significant support. Perry's performance at the
Rick Perry Says he "got lobbied" by a woman with late-stage cancer about vaccinating Texas girls against a virus that can cause cervical cancer. [SEP] Gardasil // infections, so the risk of teenagers experiencing a decrease in sexual inhibitions due to the false sense of protection from the vaccination could be harmful. Perry's decision was later criticized on September 12, 2011 by fellow presidential candidates Rick Santorum and Michele Bachmann during the Republican Party presidential debate as being an overreach of state power in a decision properly left to parents. In June 2013, the Japanese government issued a notice that "cervical cancer vaccinations should no longer be recommended for girls aged 12 to 16" while an investigation is conducted into certain adverse events including pain and numbness
Rick Perry Says he "got lobbied" by a woman with late-stage cancer about vaccinating Texas girls against a virus that can cause cervical cancer. [SEP] Governorship of Rick Perry // be inappropriate for victims of incest or rape, which the law does not exempt. Also in 2011, Perry signed a bill that prohibited taxpayer funding for Planned Parenthood, along with a bill that created a "Choose Life" license plate to promote infant adoption in Texas. On February 2, 2007, Perry issued an executive order mandating that Texas girls receive HPV vaccine that protects against some strains of the human papilloma virus, a contributing factor to some forms of cervical cancer. The order provided vaccination free of charge to those who were not covered by insurance, and included an opt-out provision
Rick Perry Says he "got lobbied" by a woman with late-stage cancer about vaccinating Texas girls against a virus that can cause cervical cancer. [SEP] Governorship of Rick Perry // for parents. At the time of the order, Gardasil, a newly approved drug manufactured by Merck, was the only HPV vaccine approved by the Food and Drug Administration. The move made national headlines, and apparent financial connections between Merck and Perry were reported by news outlets, such as a $6,000 campaign contribution and Merck's hiring of former Perry Chief of Staff Mike Toomey to handle its Texas lobbying work and Perry's "current chief of staff's mother-in-law, Texas Republican state Rep. Dianne White Delisi [as] state director for Women in Government". Perry's decision was criticized by some social conservatives and parents
Rick Perry Says he "got lobbied" by a woman with late-stage cancer about vaccinating Texas girls against a virus that can cause cervical cancer. [SEP] Michele Bachmann // 11- and 12-year-olds. Bachmann, during the debate and in interviews following the event, accused Perry of "crony capitalism" (because Perry's former chief of staff was chief lobbyist for a drug company manufacturing the vaccine), and claimed that the HPV vaccine was dangerous and caused mental retardation. She repeatedly referred to an anecdotal account from a mother of a girl who been immunized for HPV. "She told me that her little daughter took that vaccine, that injection, and she suffered mental retardation thereafter," Bachmann said. "There is no second chance for these little girls if there is any dangerous consequences to
Rick Perry Says he "got lobbied" by a woman with late-stage cancer about vaccinating Texas girls against a virus that can cause cervical cancer. [SEP] Rick Perry // saying the veto would have been overruled, but blamed lawmakers who supported the bill for the deaths of future Texan cervical cancer victims. On July 1, 2011, Perry both had adult stem cell surgery in Houston and started "laying the groundwork" for the commercialization of the adult stem cell industry in Texas. Perry grew up in the United Methodist Church. He and his family were members of Tarrytown United Methodist Church in Austin until 2010, when they began attending Lake Hills Church, a non-denominational evangelical megachurch in western Travis County. Perry told the "Austin American-Statesman" that he began attending Lake
Rick Perry Says he "got lobbied" by a woman with late-stage cancer about vaccinating Texas girls against a virus that can cause cervical cancer. [SEP] Michele Bachmann 2012 presidential campaign // cover of "Newsweek" magazine in August 2011, dubbed "the Queen of Rage". The photo of her was perceived as unflattering, as it portrayed her with a wide eyed expression some said made her look "crazy". Sources called the depiction "sexist". "Newsweek" defended the cover's depiction of her, saying its other photos of Bachmann showed similar intensity. Bachmann attacked Rick Perry's record as governor of Texas in a televised debate, saying he trampled parental rights by vaccinating all teenage girls statewide with the human papillomavirus vaccine. She cited a friend, whose daughter suffered health problems after taking the vaccine, as saying
Rick Perry Says he "got lobbied" by a woman with late-stage cancer about vaccinating Texas girls against a virus that can cause cervical cancer. [SEP] Michele Bachmann // Texas girls. The American Academy of Pediatrics, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, American Academy of Family Physicians, American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices and other medical organizations worldwide are in favor of immunizing girls and boys against HPV. HPV can cause lesions and genital warts, and has been linked to cervical cancer as well as genital and oral cancers in people of any gender. Because the vaccine is effective only if given before the onset of sexual activity and subsequent exposure to the virus, medical groups recommend the three dose vaccine be given to
Report: 20-somethings can go 2 years between Paps [SEP] Pap test // (ACOG) and others recommend starting screening at age 21 (since that is a few years after initial sex for most American women). Many other countries wait until age 25 or later to start screening. For instance, some parts of Great Britain start screening at age 25. ACOG's general recommendation is that people with uteruses age 30–65 have an annual well-woman examination, that they not get annual Pap tests, and that they do get Pap tests at three-year intervals. HPV is passed through skin to skin contact; sex does not have to occur, although it is a common way for it
Report: 20-somethings can go 2 years between Paps [SEP] Pap test // age 30. There is little or no benefit to screening people who have not had sexual contact. For example, United States Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) recommends waiting at least three years after first sex. HPV can be transmitted in sex between females, so those who have only had sex with other females should be screened, although they are at somewhat lower risk for cervical cancer. Guidelines on frequency of screening vary—typically every three to five years for those who have not had previous abnormal smears. Some older recommendations suggested screening as frequently as every one to two years, however
Report: 20-somethings can go 2 years between Paps [SEP] Pap test // and endometrium, it is not designed to do so. In the United States, Pap smear screening is recommended starting around 21 years of age until the age of 65. However, other countries do not recommend pap testing in non-sexually active females. Guidelines on frequency vary from every three to five years. If results are abnormal, and depending on the nature of the abnormality, the test may need to be repeated in six to twelve months. If the abnormality requires closer scrutiny, the patient may be referred for detailed inspection of the cervix by colposcopy. The person may also be referred
Report: 20-somethings can go 2 years between Paps [SEP] Cervical screening // to 64; women aged 25 to 49 receive an invitation every 3 years and women aged 50 to 64 receive an invitation every 5 years. In the United States, screening is recommended for women between ages 21–65, regardless of age at sexual initiation or other high-risk behaviors. For healthy women aged 21–29 who have never had an abnormal Pap smear, cervical cancer screening with cervical cytology (Pap smear) should occur every 3 years, regardless of HPV vaccination status. The preferred screening for women aged 30–65 is "co-testing", which includes a combination of cervical cytology screening and HPV testing, every 5
Report: 20-somethings can go 2 years between Paps [SEP] Cervical screening // specific reasons to, then to screen every three years until the age of 69. But, for example, in Ontario "The Ontario Cervical Screening Program recommends that women who are or have been sexually active have a Pap test every 3 years starting at age 21." In low-resource countries, decisions regarding cervical screening are made based upon available resources and thus it is often not possible to offer cervical screening as frequently. The greatest impact on cervical cancer reduction appears to result from screening women aged 30 to 39 years, so resources may be directed to that age group. There are
Report: 20-somethings can go 2 years between Paps [SEP] Cervical screening // years. However, it is acceptable to screen this age group with a Pap smear alone every 3 years. In women over the age of 65, screening for cervical cancer may be discontinued in the absence of abnormal screening results within the prior 10 years and no history of high-grade lesions. In Australia, screening is offered to women aged 18–70, every two years. This is by Pap smear, and regardless of sexual history. In Canada, where screening programmes are arranged at provincial level, the general recommendation is not to begin routine screening until the age of 25 in the absence of
Report: 20-somethings can go 2 years between Paps [SEP] Pap test // there is little evidence to support such frequent screening; annual screening has little benefit but leads to greatly increased cost and many unnecessary procedures and treatments. It has been acknowledged since before 1980 that most people can be screened less often. In some guidelines, frequency depends on age; for instance in Great Britain, screening is recommended every 3 years for women under 50, and every 5 years for those over. Screening should stop about age 65 unless there is a recent abnormal tests or disease. There is probably no benefit screening people aged 60 or over whose previous tests have
Report: 20-somethings can go 2 years between Paps [SEP] Pap test // for HPV DNA testing, which can serve as an adjunct to Pap testing. Additional biomarkers which may be applied as ancillary tests with the Pap test are evolving. Screening guidelines vary from country to country. In general, screening starts about the age of 20 or 25 and continues until about the age of 50 or 60. Screening is typically recommended every three to five years, as long as results are normal. Women should wait a few years after they first have intercourse before they start screening, and should not be screened before age 21. American Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists
Report: 20-somethings can go 2 years between Paps [SEP] Cancer prevention // 20 – 30 years; women between 21 – 29 years old are encouraged to receive Pap smear screens every three years, and those over 29 every five years. For women older than the age of 65 and with no history of cervical cancer or abnormality, and with an appropriate precedence of negative Pap test results may cease regular screening. Still, adherence to recommended screening plans depends on age and may be linked to "educational level, culture, psychosocial issues, and marital status," further emphasizing the importance of addressing these challenges in regards to cancer screening. Colorectal cancer is most often screened
Report: 20-somethings can go 2 years between Paps [SEP] Cervical cancer // effective at increasing the likelihood they will do so. Educational materials also help increase the likelihood women will go for screening, but they are not as effective as invitations. According to the 2010 European guidelines, the age at which to start screening ranges between 20 and 30 years of age, but preferentially not before age 25 or 30 years, and depends on burden of the disease in the population and the available resources. In the United States, screening is recommended to begin at age 21, regardless of age at which a woman began having sex or other risk factors. Pap
Greece quarantines second migrant camp after COVID-19 case confirmed. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic in Europe // who came back from a trip to Argentina two days earlier. As he travelled across Croatia and Germany with other people, they were put in semi quarantine. The second case was confirmed on 25 June. The infected person is a 4-year-old female citizen of Australia who was visiting Sombor. She had contact with 13 people whose health is being monitored. On 26 June, three more cases were confirmed, out of which two were independent cases while one patient was infected from contact with the previously diagnosed patient. In total 44 people were put under quarantine surveillance. On 28 June 6
Greece quarantines second migrant camp after COVID-19 case confirmed. [SEP] Diavata refugee camp // Diavata refugee camp Diavata refugee camp is a military-run refugee camp located in Diavata, a community belonging to the municipality of Delta, Central Macedonia, Greece. The camp opened on 24 February 2016 to host Syrian, Afghan and Iraqi refugees fleeing the Syrian Civil War, the long-ongoing Afghan conflict and the Iraq War. The camp has capacity for 2500 refugees and as of 1 July 2016, hosts 1,744 refugees in 171 tents and 134 RHUs (Refugee Housing Units). The former military camp of Anagnostopoulou was reconverted in the current Diavata refugee camp, producing protests by about 800 neighbours of Diavata, that
Greece quarantines second migrant camp after COVID-19 case confirmed. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic in Europe // May 2009 the authorities confirmed the first case of swine flu in Greece. The infected person was a 14-year-old American child who lived in Connecticut and who flew to Greece a few days before. He was hospitalised at Sismanogleion but was not gravely ill. The authorities have contacted many of the passengers who sat near this patient on the plane and are examining them for suspicious symptoms. At this point in time Greece has enough anti-virals to cover 12% of the population (at least 10% is the amount proposed by the EU directives). The 14-year-old is now out of the
Greece quarantines second migrant camp after COVID-19 case confirmed. [SEP] Vasilika refugee camp // facilities. Vasilika refugee camp The Vasilika refugee camp is a military-run refugee camp located in an old warehouse in Vasilika village (Thermi), Central Macedonia, Greece. The camp opened on 14 June 2016 to host the refugees evicted from the Idomeni refugee camp and Hotel Hara. Greek authorities declared that 1,158 people, fundamentally Syrian and Iraqi, were moved from the Eko camp (belonging to Idomeni refugee camp) to Vasilika in buses. As of 23 June 2016, there were 1,205 refugees registered in the Vasilika refugee camp. Some refugees have denounced to the media the poor conditions of the camp regarding food
Greece quarantines second migrant camp after COVID-19 case confirmed. [SEP] 2016 Turkish coup d'état attempt // oversee deportations. On 25 August 2016, seven Turkish citizens were seeking asylum in Greece. A couple, both of whom are university professors, and their two children applied for asylum in Alexandroupoli after they illegally entered the country from the northeastern border. Also, three businessmen have illegally reached the Greek island of Rhodes, and they also applied for asylum. On 30 August 2016, a Turkish judge arrived to the Greek island of Chios on a migrant boat, along with six Syrian nationals, and sought asylum in the country. He told the Greek coast guard and police officers that he is being
Greece quarantines second migrant camp after COVID-19 case confirmed. [SEP] Kara Tepe Refugee Camp // Kara Tepe Refugee Camp Kara Tepe is located about 2.5km to the northeast of Mytilene, the capital of the island of Lesbos. The camp is managed by a special organization affiliated with the Municipality of Lesvos and led by Stavrous Mirogiannis. The purpose of the camp is to provide temporary housing for asylum seekers as they await their registration processes. Kara Tepe is the overflow site for the Moria registration center, known as a hotspot established by the Greek government through which new arrivals would be processed. Asylum seekers spend a minimum of 25 days in the Moria camp before
Greece quarantines second migrant camp after COVID-19 case confirmed. [SEP] July 2016 Turkish military asylum incident in Greece // Greek and Turkish hackers. Turkey suspended its bilateral migrant readmission deal with Greece in response to the decision by the Greek government to release the eight Turkish soldiers who fled to Greece after the 2016 Turkish coup d'état attempt. NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg has called for “restraint and calm” after Turkey's decision. July 2016 Turkish military asylum incident in Greece During the failed 2016 Turkish coup d'état attempt on 15 July 2016, eight Turkish military personnel claimed asylum in Greece. The Turkish servicemen arrived in Greece on board a UH-60 Black Hawk helicopter. Although a Greek court ruled that three
Greece quarantines second migrant camp after COVID-19 case confirmed. [SEP] European migrant crisis // or other member states could be authorized to extend border controls for up to two years instead of the normal six months. On 11 February, NATO announced that it was going to deploy ships in the Aegean Sea to deter people smugglers taking migrants from Turkey to Greece, the first 3 ships being the Royal Canadian Navy's "HMCS Fredericton (FFH 337)", Turkish Naval Forces's "TCG Barbaros (F-244)" and German Navy's "Bonn (A1413)" from NATO's SNMG2. NATO chief Jens Stoltenberg said the mission would not be about "stopping or pushing back refugee boats", but about intelligence gathering and sharing information with
Greece quarantines second migrant camp after COVID-19 case confirmed. [SEP] Syrian refugee camps // African countries. In Greece, the refugee camps opened in response to the European migrant crisis host Syrian refugees (54.9% of arrivals) followed by Afghan (24.6%) and Iraqi refugees (11.0%). There are currently 57,042 refugees in Greece, according to data collected in 2016 by The Refugee Crisis Management Coordination Body. Epirus <br> Central Macedonia <br> Eastern Macedonia and Thrace <br> Western Greece <br> Central Greece <br> Thessalia <br> Attica <br> Greek Islands, as of 10/06/2016: North Aegean Lesvos <br> Chios <br> Samos <br> South Aegean Leros <br> Kos <br> Rhodes Syrian refugee camps Syrian refugee camps and shelters are temporary settlements
Greece quarantines second migrant camp after COVID-19 case confirmed. [SEP] Vasilika refugee camp // Vasilika refugee camp The Vasilika refugee camp is a military-run refugee camp located in an old warehouse in Vasilika village (Thermi), Central Macedonia, Greece. The camp opened on 14 June 2016 to host the refugees evicted from the Idomeni refugee camp and Hotel Hara. Greek authorities declared that 1,158 people, fundamentally Syrian and Iraqi, were moved from the Eko camp (belonging to Idomeni refugee camp) to Vasilika in buses. As of 23 June 2016, there were 1,205 refugees registered in the Vasilika refugee camp. Some refugees have denounced to the media the poor conditions of the camp regarding food and
Starving prostate cancer with what you eat for dinner [SEP] Cooking // may be found in vegetables such as broccoli, has been shown to be protective against prostate cancer, however, much of it is destroyed when the vegetable is boiled. The USDA has studied retention data for 16 vitamins, 8 minerals, and alcohol for approximately 290 foods for various cooking methods. In a human epidemiological analysis by Richard Doll and Richard Peto in 1981, diet was estimated to cause a large percentage of cancers. Studies suggest that around 32% of cancer deaths may be avoidable by changes to the diet. Some of these cancers may be caused by carcinogens in food generated
Starving prostate cancer with what you eat for dinner [SEP] Prostate cancer // prostate cancer with a vegetarian diet. There is some tentative evidence for foods containing lycopene and selenium. Diets rich in cruciferous vegetables, soy, beans and other legumes may be associated with a lower risk of prostate cancer, especially more advanced cancers. Men who get regular exercise may have a slightly lower risk, especially vigorous activity and the risk of advanced prostate cancer. In those who are being regularly screened, 5-alpha-reductase inhibitors (finasteride and dutasteride) reduce the overall risk of being diagnosed with prostate cancer, but there are insufficient data to determine if they have an effect on the risk of
Starving prostate cancer with what you eat for dinner [SEP] Prostate cancer // consumption of the Western diet. There is little if any evidence to support an association between trans fat, saturated fat, and carbohydrate intake and risk of prostate cancer. Evidence regarding the role of omega-3 fatty acids in preventing prostate cancer does not suggest that they reduce the risk of prostate cancer, although additional research is needed. Vitamin supplements appear to have no effect and some may increase the risk. High calcium intake has been linked to advanced prostate cancer. Consuming fish may lower prostate cancer deaths but does not appear to affect its occurrence. Some evidence supports lower rates of
Starving prostate cancer with what you eat for dinner [SEP] Prostate cancer // Evidence supports little role for dietary fruits and vegetables in prostate cancer occurrence. Red meat and processed meat also appear to have little effect in human studies. Higher meat consumption has been associated with a higher risk in some studies. Lower blood levels of vitamin D may increase the risk of developing prostate cancer. Folic acid supplements have no effect on the risk of developing prostate cancer. There are also some links between prostate cancer and medications, medical procedures, and medical conditions. Use of the cholesterol-lowering medications known as statins may also decrease prostate cancer risk. Infection or inflammation of
Starving prostate cancer with what you eat for dinner [SEP] Red meat // 19% for advanced prostate cancer. Most processed meat contains at least some red meat. To enhance flavor or improve preservation meat is treated by salting, curing, fermentation, smoking, or other processes to create processed meat. Nitrates and nitrites found in processed meat (e.g. bacon, ham, salami, pepperoni, hot dogs, and some sausages) can be converted by the human body into nitrosamines that can be carcinogenic, causing mutation in the colorectal cell line, thereby causing tumorigenesis and eventually leading to cancer. In its Press Release 240 (16 Oct. 2015) the International Agency for Research on Cancer, based on a review of
Starving prostate cancer with what you eat for dinner [SEP] Management of prostate cancer // the vegan diet in treating prostate cancer. Many other single agents have been shown to reduce PSA, slow PSA doubling times, or have similar effects on secondary markers in men with localized cancer in short term trials, such as pomegranate juice or genistein, an isoflavone found in various legumes. The potential of using multiple such agents in concert, let alone combining them with lifestyle changes, has not yet been studied. A more thorough review of natural approaches to prostate cancer has been published. Neutrons have been shown to be superior to X-rays in the treatment of prostatic cancer. The rationale
Starving prostate cancer with what you eat for dinner [SEP] Canadian health claims for food // help prevent or treat cancer and that more studies need to be done. A study published in the Journal of the National Cancer Institute was done on 1300 prostate cancer patients. Overall the risk of prostate cancer was unaffected by receiving dietary supplemental antioxidants. However, the results in smokers show that an increase in Vitamin E and B-carotene are statistically significant and are associated with reduced risk of the disease. Lycopene is a strong antioxidant found in large quantities in tomatoes as well as other red fruits and vegetables. It has recently been a subject of great research concerning many
Starving prostate cancer with what you eat for dinner [SEP] Diamond Jim Brady // "vast quantities of hominy, eggs, cornbread, muffins, flapjacks, chops, fried potatoes, beefsteak, washing it all down with a gallon of fresh orange juice". A mid-morning snack would consist of "two or three dozen clams or Lynnhaven oysters". Luncheon would consist of "shellfish...two or three deviled crabs, a brace of boiled lobsters, a joint of beef, and an enormous salad". He would also include a dessert of "several pieces of homemade pie" and more orange juice. Brady would take afternoon tea, which consisted of "another platter of seafood, accompanied by two or three bottles of lemon soda". Dinner was the main
Starving prostate cancer with what you eat for dinner [SEP] Milk // between high calcium intake from milk, in particular, and prostate cancer, consistent with a calcium/vitamin D based mechanism. Overall, the WCRF/AICR panel concluded that "The evidence is inconsistent from both cohort and case-control studies. There is limited evidence suggesting that milk and dairy products are a cause of prostate cancer." Milk must be offered at every meal if a United States school district wishes to get reimbursement from the federal government. A quarter of the largest school districts in the U.S. offer rice or soy milk and almost 17% of all U.S. school districts offer lactose-free milk. Seventy-one percent of
Starving prostate cancer with what you eat for dinner [SEP] Heterocyclic amine // from the cooking of muscle meats that may pose human cancer risk. The United States National Cancer Institute's Division of Cancer Epidemiology and Genetics found a link between individuals with stomach cancer and the consumption of cooked meat, and other studies for colorectal, pancreatic, and breast cancer is associated with high intakes of well-done, fried, or barbecued meats. People who eat medium-well or well-done beef were more than three times as likely to suffer stomach cancer as those who ate rare or medium-rare beef. Other sources of protein (milk, eggs, tofu, and organ meats such as liver) have very little
Cracking the mysteries of the elusive, majestic whale shark. [SEP] Donsol // 26, 1997, a group of scuba divers led by Romir Aglugub – a PADI diving instructor, discovered its presence, and interacted and came in contact with the whale sharks. Even the members of the diving group of Romir was having second thought if the fish is docile, until the instructor led the way into the water and came in contact with the whale shark. Copy of video footage taken by the group was passed on to the media and the WWF-Philippines. By March 1998, Donsol became world-class tourist destination and now known as the “Whale Shark Capital of the World”.
Cracking the mysteries of the elusive, majestic whale shark. [SEP] Whale shark // Pacific Ocean, rammed it, and the shark became stuck on the prow of the ship, supposedly with on one side and on the other. No reliable documentation exists for these claims and they remain "fish stories". The whale shark inhabits all tropical and warm-temperate seas. The fish is primarily pelagic, living in the open sea but not in the greater depths of the ocean, although it is known to occasionally dive to depths of as much as . Seasonal feeding aggregations occur at several coastal sites such as the southern and eastern parts of South Africa; Saint Helena Island in
Cracking the mysteries of the elusive, majestic whale shark. [SEP] Mega Shark Versus Giant Octopus // stealing the submarine. She brings the shark tooth to her old professor, former U.S. Navy pilot Lamar Sanders (Sean Lawlor), who believes it belonged to a "Megalodon", an enormous species of shark believed to have become extinct 1.5 million years ago. The duo is visited by Dr. Seiji Shimada (Vic Chao), a Japanese scientist trying to determine what attacked the drilling platform. The three review a videotape recorded during MacNeil’s submarine voyage, finding images of both the megalodon and a gigantic octopus. MacNeil reflects on the polar ice caps melting due to man-made global warming, and wonders if the creatures
Cracking the mysteries of the elusive, majestic whale shark. [SEP] Ryan Johnson (marine scientist) // the Great White Shark hunting Cape fur seal at night time, a previously unknown behavior. Between 2001 and 2005 Johnson conducted research on the controversial practice of chumming great white shark for tourism, often called cage diving, where he discovered evidence of conditioning, however he did not link this to increased numbers of attacks on human beings. In January 2008 he led a pilot study to Ponto Do Ora (Mozambique) on the Zambezi shark, also known as the Bull shark. Between 1998 and present Johnson has featured as a marine scientist in numerous documentaries including Naked Science (National Geographic), Earth
Cracking the mysteries of the elusive, majestic whale shark. [SEP] Jaws (film) // it is the same predator, confirming this after no human remains are found inside it. Hooper and Brody find a half-sunken vessel while searching the night waters in Hooper's boat. Underwater, Hooper retrieves a sizable great white shark's tooth embedded in the submerged hull. He drops it in fright after encountering a partial corpse. Vaughn discounts Brody and Hooper's claims that a huge great white shark is responsible for the deaths, and refuses to close the beaches, allowing only added safety precautions. On the Fourth of July weekend, tourists pack the beaches. Following a juvenile prank in which the presence
Cracking the mysteries of the elusive, majestic whale shark. [SEP] Whale shark // Whale shark The whale shark ("Rhincodon typus") is a slow-moving, filter-feeding carpet shark and the largest known extant fish species. The largest confirmed individual had a length of and a weight of about . The whale shark holds many records for size in the animal kingdom, most notably being by far the largest living nonmammalian vertebrate. It is the sole member of the genus Rhincodon and the only extant member of the family Rhincodontidae which belongs to the subclass Elasmobranchii in the class Chondrichthyes. Before 1984 it was classified as "Rhiniodon" into Rhinodontidae. The whale shark is found in open
Cracking the mysteries of the elusive, majestic whale shark. [SEP] Whale shark // whale sharks is estimated at and . Several specimens over in length have been reported. The largest verified specimen was caught on 11 November 1949, near Baba Island, in Karachi, Pakistan. It was long, weighed about , and had a girth of . Stories exist of vastly larger specimens – quoted lengths of and are common in the popular literature, but no scientific records support their existence. In 1868, the Irish natural scientist Edward Perceval Wright obtained several small whale shark specimens in the Seychelles, but claimed to have observed specimens in excess of , and tells of shark specimens
Cracking the mysteries of the elusive, majestic whale shark. [SEP] Mega Shark Versus Giant Octopus // entire structure. After returning to Point Dume, California, MacNeil investigates the corpse of a beached whale covered with many bloody wounds. Her employer Dick Richie (Mark Hengst) believes them to be from a tanker propeller, but MacNeil insists they appear to be from a creature. Later, she extracts what appears to be a shark’s tooth from one of the wounds. Elsewhere, the huge shark leaps tens of thousands of feet into the air from the ocean and attacks a commercial aircraft, forcing it to crash into the water. A review board convenes and fires MacNeil from the oceanographic institute for
Cracking the mysteries of the elusive, majestic whale shark. [SEP] Jaws 2 // shark using a gas tank and flare gun, causing the boat to explode, which kills the driver and burns the shark's face. A killer whale carcass with large bites is found beached. Police Chief Martin Brody believes a shark is responsible for these events. Brody explains his concerns to Mayor Larry Vaughn, who doubts the town has another shark problem. Brody then finds debris from the destroyed speedboat and the boat driver's burnt remains. Brody calls Matt Hooper for assistance, but he is unavailable. The following day, Brody is watching from a shark tower and causes a scene after mistaking
Cracking the mysteries of the elusive, majestic whale shark. [SEP] Livyatan // and the teeth of these two sharks were found near whale and seal remains. Eagle rays, sawfish, and angelsharks were other cartilaginous fish found. Most of the bony fish findings belonged to tunas and croakers. "Livyatan" and megalodon were likely the apex predators of this area during this time. The Beaumaris sperm whale was found in the Beaumaris Bay Black Rock Sandstone Formation in Australia near the city of Melbourne, dating to 5 mya in the Pliocene. Beaumaris Bay is one of the most productive marine fossil sites in Australia for marine megafauna. Shark teeth belonging to twenty different species
Bill McCollum holds the same position on (embryonic stem cell research) as Barack Obama. [SEP] Political positions of John McCain // research. McCain had earlier opposed embryonic stem cell research and credits former First Lady Nancy Reagan, a prominent Republican supporter of such research, with changing his mind in 2001. He states that he believes that stem cell research, and indeed embryonic stem cell research, will continue whether or not the U.S. sanctions it, and so it would be the wisest course of action to support it to the extent that the United States will be able to regulate and monitor the use. In July 2008 he said "At the moment I support stem cell research [because of] the potential it
Bill McCollum holds the same position on (embryonic stem cell research) as Barack Obama. [SEP] Political positions of Mike Huckabee // meant to loosen federal funding for embryonic stem cell research in June 2007, saying that the bill was wrong on moral grounds and based on inconclusive science. He also said that scientists have developed other types of stem cell research that would not require the use of a human embryo. He said that "vital scientific research can and is being conducted without the destruction of life." During his 2008 presidential campaign, Huckabee stated that if elected, he would make the US "energy independent" by the end of a second term. His plan calls for conservation, exploration and the pursuit of
Bill McCollum holds the same position on (embryonic stem cell research) as Barack Obama. [SEP] Stem cell laws and policy in the United States // Rodham Clinton, Bill Clinton's First Lady, then U. S. Senator for New York, and Barack Obama, then U.S. Senator for Illinois, who promised to sign the EFCA into law, and was a cosponsor of such bills. Massachusetts governor Deval Patrick is also a proponent of embryonic stem cell research. There have been some Democrats who have asked for boundaries be placed on human embryo use. For example, Carolyn McCarthy has publicly stated she only supports using human embryos "that would be discarded". The Republicans largely oppose embryonic stem cell research in favor of adult stem cell research which has already
Bill McCollum holds the same position on (embryonic stem cell research) as Barack Obama. [SEP] Political positions of Mitt Romney // drastically altered in 2004 after discussing stem cell research with Douglas Melton, a stem cell researcher at Harvard University. The Harvard Stem Cell Institute was planning research that would have involved therapeutic cloning. According to Romney, Melton declared that the research "is not a moral issue because we kill the embryos at 14 days." "I looked over at Beth Myers, my chief of staff, and we both had exactly the same reaction, which is it just hit us hard," recalled Romney. "And as they walked out, I said, 'Beth, we have cheapened the sanctity of life by virtue of the
Bill McCollum holds the same position on (embryonic stem cell research) as Barack Obama. [SEP] Social policy of the Barack Obama administration // of the 2007 bill lifting restrictions on embryonic stem cell research that was passed but was also vetoed by President Bush. On March 9, 2009, President Obama signed Executive Order 13505, Allowing "responsible, scientifically worthy human stem cell research, including human embryonic stem cell research, to the extent permitted by law". This executive order also served to revoke Executive Order 13435, signed on June 20, 2007 by President Bush. In May 2008, a campaign spokesman for presidential candidate Obama told the "San Francisco Chronicle" that he would end DEA raids on medical marijuana suppliers in states with their own laws.
Bill McCollum holds the same position on (embryonic stem cell research) as Barack Obama. [SEP] Stem cell laws and policy in the United States // into law by President Bush. It provided $265 million for adult stem cell therapy, umbilical cord blood and bone marrow treatment, and authorized $79 million for the collection of cord blood stem cells. By executive order on March 9, 2009, President Barack Obama removed certain restrictions on federal funding for research involving new lines of human embryonic stem cells. Prior to President Obama's executive order, federal funding was limited to non-embryonic stem cell research and embryonic stem cell research based upon embryonic stem cell lines in existence prior to August 9, 2001. Federal funding originating from current appropriations to the
Bill McCollum holds the same position on (embryonic stem cell research) as Barack Obama. [SEP] Stem cell laws and policy in the United States // afflict mankind." In 2007, in what he described as "a very agonizing and tough decision," he voted to allow research using human embryos left over from fertility treatments. Former First Lady Nancy Reagan and Senator Orrin Hatch also support stem cell research, after first opposing the issue. Former Senator Frist also supports stem cell research, despite having initially supported past restrictions on embryonic stem cell research. 2008 V.P. candidate Palin opposed embryonic stem cell research, which she said causes the destruction of life, thus this research is inconsistent with her pro-life position and she does not support it. She said,
Bill McCollum holds the same position on (embryonic stem cell research) as Barack Obama. [SEP] Stem cell laws and policy in the United States // produced cures and treatments for cancer and paralysis for example, but there are some high-profile exceptions who offer qualified support for some embryonic stem cell research. Prominent Republican leaders against embryonic stem cell research include Sarah Palin, Jim Talent, Rick Santorum, and Sam Brownback. In July 2001: 2008 "GOP" Presidential Candidate John McCain was a member of The Republican Main Street Partnership, and supported embryonic stem cell research, despite his earlier opposition. In July 2008 he said, "At the moment I support stem cell research [because of] the potential it has for curing some of the most terrible diseases that
Bill McCollum holds the same position on (embryonic stem cell research) as Barack Obama. [SEP] Stem cell controversy // on these issues is shaped by deeply held beliefs," and "I also believe human life is a sacred gift from our creator." This ban was in part revoked by his successor Barack Obama, who stated "As a person of faith, I believe we are called to care for each other and work to ease human suffering. I believe we have been given the capacity and will to pursue this research and the humanity and conscience to do so responsibly." Some stem cell researchers are working to develop techniques of isolating stem cells that are as potent as embryonic stem cells,
Bill McCollum holds the same position on (embryonic stem cell research) as Barack Obama. [SEP] Presidency of George W. Bush // research. The Clinton administration had issued guidelines allowing the federal funding of research utilizing stem cells, and the Bush administration studied the situation's ethics. Evangelical religious groups argued that the research was immoral as it destroyed human embryos, while various advocacy groups touted the "miracle possibilities" of stem cell research. In August 2001, Bush announced that he opposed stem cell research, and he banned federal funding for research on new stem cell lines. In July 2006, Bush used his first presidential veto on the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act, which would have expanded federal funding of embryonic stem cell research.
After prohibition ended, police deaths didn't reach 200 a year again until the year Nixon declared war on drugs. [SEP] War on drugs // fifteen percent of the servicemen were addicted to heroin, and President Nixon declared drug abuse to be "public enemy number one". Although Nixon declared "drug abuse" to be public enemy number one in 1971, the policies that his administration implemented as part of the Comprehensive Drug Abuse Prevention and Control Act of 1970 were a continuation of drug prohibition policies in the U.S., which started in 1914. In 1973, the Drug Enforcement Administration was created to replace the Bureau of Narcotics and Dangerous Drugs. The Nixon Administration also repealed the federal 2–10-year mandatory minimum sentences for possession of marijuana and
After prohibition ended, police deaths didn't reach 200 a year again until the year Nixon declared war on drugs. [SEP] War on drugs // as a result of the war on drugs arrived in several stages. By 1971, different stops on drugs had been implemented for more than 50 years (since 1914, 1937 etc.) with only a very small increase of inmates per 100,000 citizens. During the first 9 years after Nixon coined the expression "War on Drugs", statistics showed only a minor increase in the total number of imprisoned. After 1980, the situation began to change. In the 1980s, while the number of arrests for all crimes had risen by 28%, the number of arrests for drug offenses rose 126%. The result of
After prohibition ended, police deaths didn't reach 200 a year again until the year Nixon declared war on drugs. [SEP] Prohibition in the United States // pre-Prohibition level; but, over the next several years, increased to about 60–70 percent of its pre-prohibition level. Within a week after Prohibition went into effect, small portable stills were on sale throughout the country. A 2017 study concluded that in six years from 1934 to 1939, "an excess of 13,665 infant deaths ... could be attributable to the repeal of federal prohibition in 1933." Mark H. Moore states that contrary to popular opinion, "violent crime did not increase dramatically during Prohibition" and that organized crime "existed before and after" Prohibition. Kenneth D. Rose, a professor of history at California State
After prohibition ended, police deaths didn't reach 200 a year again until the year Nixon declared war on drugs. [SEP] Arguments for and against drug prohibition // 2000, there were 15,852 drug-induced deaths; only slightly less than the 18,539 alcohol-induced deaths." The DEA's use of such figures is questionable however. An article in the Journal of the American Medical Association gave the number deaths caused by alcohol in year 2000 as 85,000 – over four and a half times greater than the DEA's preferred figure. The DEA's argument also overlooks tobacco, causing 435,000 US deaths in year 2000. And, the CDC definition of "drug-induced death" includes suicides using drugs, accidental overdose, and deaths from medically prescribed (not illegal) drugs. An analysis of drug-induced deaths for the 20-year
After prohibition ended, police deaths didn't reach 200 a year again until the year Nixon declared war on drugs. [SEP] Cannabis policy of the Richard Nixon administration // Cannabis policy of the Richard Nixon administration During the administration of American President Richard Nixon (1969–1974), the United States turned to increasingly harsh measures against cannabis use, and a step away from proposals to decriminalize or legalize the drug. The administration began the War on Drugs, with Nixon in 1971 naming drug abuse as "public enemy number one in the United States." Operation Intercept was an anti-drug measure announced by Nixon on at 2:30pm on Sunday, September 21, 1969, resulting in a near shutdown of border crossings between Mexico and the United States. The initiative was intended to reduce the
After prohibition ended, police deaths didn't reach 200 a year again until the year Nixon declared war on drugs. [SEP] Drug policy of Sweden // been grown for industrial purposes, had not been affected by the opium conference in 1925. However, in 1970 cultivation of hemp was banned on the grounds that it was a drug. In 1972, the Narcotic Drugs Penalty Code was strengthened again, increasing the maximum prison sentence to ten years for more severe crimes. 1969–72, was a period of temporarily increased police resources for drug law enforcement but also frequent waiving of persecution for possession of illegal substances. In 1969, about 750 police took part in a short-term, fivefold increase in the numbers of officers engaged in drug enforcement. The resources
After prohibition ended, police deaths didn't reach 200 a year again until the year Nixon declared war on drugs. [SEP] War on drugs // the same conditions apply. Richard Nixon became president in 1969, and did not back away from the anti-drug precedent set by Johnson. Nixon began orchestrating drug raids nationwide to improve his "watchdog" reputation. Lois B. Defleur, a social historian who studied drug arrests during this period in Chicago, stated that, "police administrators indicated they were making the kind of arrests the public wanted". Additionally, some of Nixon's newly created drug enforcement agencies would resort to illegal practices to make arrests as they tried to meet public demand for arrest numbers. From 1972 to 1973, the Office of Drug Abuse and
After prohibition ended, police deaths didn't reach 200 a year again until the year Nixon declared war on drugs. [SEP] McGruff the Crime Dog // crime in our nation." After two years and $2.5 million, the Commission delivered its report, "The Challenge of Crime in a Free Society", in February 1967 which influenced the Safe Streets and Control Act of 1968. The act gave $300 million to local police forces for more personnel and equipment. With the election of Richard Nixon in 1968, the attempts to control rising crime rates shifted from a social approach—the "War on Poverty"—to a tough on crime approach—the "War on Crime". Despite Nixon's attempts, crime continued to rise from 363.5 crimes per 100,000 people in 1970 to 549.5 in 1979.
After prohibition ended, police deaths didn't reach 200 a year again until the year Nixon declared war on drugs. [SEP] Forever war // them night after night on the evening news. Did we know we were lying about the drugs? Of course we did.”Nixon temporarily placed marijuana in Schedule One, the most restrictive category of drugs, pending review by a commission he appointed led by Republican Pennsylvania Governor Raymond Shafer. In 1971, after a failed experimental and controversial methadone maintenance program, Nixon addressed Congress and declared "as long as there is a demand, there will be those willing to take the risks of meeting the demand. " In this statement, he publicly proclaimed that all efforts of interdiction and eradication are destined to
After prohibition ended, police deaths didn't reach 200 a year again until the year Nixon declared war on drugs. [SEP] War on drugs // Law Enforcement performed 6,000 drug arrests in 18 months, the majority of the arrested black. The next two Presidents, Gerald Ford and Jimmy Carter, responded with programs that were essentially a continuation of their predecessors. Shortly after Ronald Reagan became President in 1981 he delivered a speech on the topic. Reagan announced, "We're taking down the surrender flag that has flown over so many drug efforts; we're running up a battle flag." Then, driven by the 1986 cocaine overdose of black basketball star Len Bias, Reagan was able to pass the Anti-Drug Abuse Act through Congress. This legislation appropriated an
A photograph shows Dr. Anthony Fauci at a baseball game with his mask lowered below his mouth. [SEP] Tony Gwynn // unable to smile. Later that year, he underwent eight weeks of chemotherapy and radiation treatments. He was declared cancer free afterwards, and also regained his ability to smile. Additional surgery was performed in 2012 to remove more cancerous growth and address nerve damage. Gwynn attributed the cancer to the dipping tobacco habit that he had since playing rookie ball in Walla Walla in 1981. Doctors, however, stated that studies had not linked parotid cancer with use of chewing tobacco. After his playing career ended, Gwynn's weight peaked at , and he underwent adjustable gastric banding surgery in 2009 in an
A photograph shows Dr. Anthony Fauci at a baseball game with his mask lowered below his mouth. [SEP] Anthony S. Fauci // Anthony S. Fauci Anthony Stephen "Tony" Fauci () (born December 24, 1940) is an American immunologist who has made substantial contributions to HIV/AIDS research and other immunodeficiencies, both as a scientist and as the head of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID). Anthony Stephen Fauci was born on December 24, 1940, in Brooklyn, New York, to Stephen A. Fauci and Eugenia A. Fauci, who owned a pharmacy in which his father worked as the pharmacist, his mother and sister worked the register, and Fauci delivered prescriptions. He is of Italian descent and grew up Catholic. He graduated
A photograph shows Dr. Anthony Fauci at a baseball game with his mask lowered below his mouth. [SEP] Anthony S. Fauci // how infection with the Ebola virus can be treated and prevented," Fauci said. Dr. Fauci also remarked in the hearing: "As we continue to expedite research while enforcing high safety and efficacy standards, the implementation of the public health measures already known to contain prior Ebola virus outbreaks and the implementation of treatment strategies such as fluid and electrolyte replacement are essential to preventing additional infections, treating those already infected, protecting healthcare providers, and ultimately bringing this epidemic to an end." Anthony S. Fauci Anthony Stephen "Tony" Fauci () (born December 24, 1940) is an American immunologist who has made
A photograph shows Dr. Anthony Fauci at a baseball game with his mask lowered below his mouth. [SEP] Goaltender mask // eagle theme, Martin Brodeur's Devils theme, Peter Budaj's Ned Flanders theme, Cam Talbot's Ghostbusters theme or John Gibson's Arcade game theme). In recent years, baseball catchers have begun wearing facemasks similar in style to goaltender masks. Charlie O'Brien was the first to use a hockey-style catcher's mask in a Major League Baseball game in 1996 while playing for the Toronto Blue Jays. Goaltender masks are commonly seen being worn by box lacrosse, ringette, rinkball and field hockey goaltenders at both youth and professional levels. Goaltender mask A goaltender mask, commonly referred to as a goalie mask or a hockey mask,
A photograph shows Dr. Anthony Fauci at a baseball game with his mask lowered below his mouth. [SEP] Mike Pelfrey // first Met to do so since Bret Saberhagen did it in 1995. He allowed only six hits with one earned run while striking out six and walking none. At times, Pelfrey wears a mouthpiece while he pitches. Suffering from temporomandibular joint disorder after being hit by a ball in college, he can be seen chewing on it between pitches. In early 2008, after beginning the season with some good and some bad performances, Mike stopped using the mouthpiece. Mike then went on to pitch dominantly in June, July, and August. This led fans and announcer and former Mets pitcher Ron
A photograph shows Dr. Anthony Fauci at a baseball game with his mask lowered below his mouth. [SEP] Goaltender mask // goaltender mask was a metal fencing mask donned in February 1927 by Queen's University netminder Elizabeth Graham, mainly to protect her teeth. In 1930, the first crude leather model of the mask (actually an American football "nose-guard") was worn by Clint Benedict to protect his broken nose. After recovering from the injury, he abandoned the mask, never wearing one again in his career. At the 1936 Winter Olympics, Teiji Honma wore a crude mask, similar to the one worn by baseball catchers. The mask was made of leather, and had a wire cage which protected the face, as well as
A photograph shows Dr. Anthony Fauci at a baseball game with his mask lowered below his mouth. [SEP] Small Saves // tan-brown in color. His mask is plain, undecorated white. He has no doubts about his future vocation: Hall of Fame professional goaltender. James "Jay" DeMarco has been an ice hockey goaltender since age 5. His experience included prep hockey in Watertown, Mass. and three years of semi-professional play in the South Florida Hockey League. Afterwards, James returned to Boston. James earned an Associate Degree in Commercial Art at Bunker Hill Community College. Later work as a graphic designer developed his drawing style, while continuing to indulge his passion for goaltending in local adult leagues. Goaltending contributes to the perspective needed
A photograph shows Dr. Anthony Fauci at a baseball game with his mask lowered below his mouth. [SEP] Paul Berger // He read a paper "On the Use of a Mask in Operating" before the Surgical Society of Paris on February 22, 1899. He began with the statement: Berger had been alerted by some cases of suppuration after otherwise clean operations with an assistant suffering from an alveolar abscess. A similar situation arose some months later, when Berger himself was afflicted by dental periostitis. He also noticed drops of saliva projected from the surgeon or assistant when speaking. Conscious of Carl Flügge's discovery of pathogens in saliva, he determined to shield his operation incisions from this cause of contamination, and in
A photograph shows Dr. Anthony Fauci at a baseball game with his mask lowered below his mouth. [SEP] Teiji Honma // Montreal Maroons of the National Hockey League, used a leather mask to protect his broken nose. He quickly discarded it, as the nosepiece obstructed his vision. In contrast, Jacques Plante invented and started regularly using the first practical goaltender mask in 1959, while the last North American professional goaltender not to regularly wear a mask was Andy Brown, who played his last game maskless in 1974 (he retired in 1977). His mask was similar to what a baseball catcher wore. It was made of leather, and had a wire cage to protect the face. Honma wore glasses when in nets,
A photograph shows Dr. Anthony Fauci at a baseball game with his mask lowered below his mouth. [SEP] Anthony S. Fauci // Arts and Sciences, the Institute of Medicine (Council Member), the American Philosophical Society, and the Royal Danish Academy of Sciences and Letters, as well as other numerous professional societies including the American Society for Clinical Investigation, the Infectious Diseases Society of America, and the American Association of Immunologists. He serves on the editorial boards of many scientific journals; as an editor of Harrison's Principles of Internal Medicine; and as author, coauthor, or editor of more than 1,000 scientific publications, including several textbooks. Fauci has been a visiting professor at many medical centers, and has received 30 honorary doctorate degrees from
First test of anti-epilepsy surgeries in children shows dramatic benefit [SEP] Abdominal epilepsy // anti-seizure medication. Medical testing for diagnosis can be completed using MRI scans of the brain, CT scans and ultrasounds of the abdomen, endoscopy of the gastrointestinal tract, and blood tests. Like other forms of epilepsy, abdominal epilepsy is treated with anticonvulsant drugs, such as phenytoin. Since no controlled studies exist, however, other drugs may be equally effective. French physician-scientist Armand Trousseau is commonly credited as being the first to describe the condition in 1868 in a boy with paroxysmal GI symptoms culminating in grand mal epileptic seizure. The first account of abdominal epilepsy supported by EEG tracings came in 1944
First test of anti-epilepsy surgeries in children shows dramatic benefit [SEP] Epilepsy surgery // tomography (PET). Some epilepsy centers use intracarotid sodium amobarbital test (Wada test), functional MRI (fMRI) or magnetoencephalography (MEG) as supplementary tests. Recently it has been suggested that computer models of seizure generation may provide valuable additional information regarding the source of seizures. If noninvasive testing was inadequate in identifying the epileptic focus or in distinguishing the surgical target from normal brain tissue and function, then Long-term video-EEG monitoring with the use of intracranial electrodes may be required for evaluation. Brain mapping by the technique of cortical electrical stimulation or Electrocorticography are other procedures used in the process of invasive testing
First test of anti-epilepsy surgeries in children shows dramatic benefit [SEP] Vertiginous epilepsy // extreme cases when seizure symptoms disrupt daily life, is surgery wherein the surgeon will remove the epileptic region. There have been early and consistent strategies for measurement to better understand vertiginous epilepsy including caloric reflex test, posture and gait, or rotational experimentation. In Japan, Kaga et al prepared a longitudinal study of rotation tests comparing congenital deafness and children with delayed acquisition of motor system skills. They were able to demonstrate the development of post-rotation nystagmus response from the frequency of beat and duration period from birth to six years to compare to adult values. Overall, the study demonstrated that
First test of anti-epilepsy surgeries in children shows dramatic benefit [SEP] Hal Blumenfeld // may help produce targeted therapies with better effectiveness and fewer side effects. Other important innovations in Blumenfeld’s work include using virtual-reality driving simulation during video/EEG monitoring to evaluate driving safety in patients with epilepsy. In addition, his research group developed a prospective bedside testing battery, the Responsiveness in Epilepsy Scale (RES). These testing methods provide better information to patients and physicians making decisions about driving, and may help identify brain areas crucial for impaired awareness in epilepsy. Dr. Blumenfeld has also developed two new approaches to target epilepsy surgery to the correct location in the brain: 1. 3D color movies
First test of anti-epilepsy surgeries in children shows dramatic benefit [SEP] CURE Children's Hospital of Uganda // for treatment. Neurosurgeons Benjamin Warf and Warren Boling of West Virginia University performed the first three epilepsy surgeries ever done in the region. The program in ongoing and is being evaluated for further expansion. With the encouragement and support of international neurosurgical societies, CCHU has established a fellowship program for pediatric neurosurgeons. It is the only such program in Sub-Saharan Africa. Two neurosurgeons per year will study and work at CCHU, to focus their skills on children and to concentrate on a range of afflictions of the brain and central nervous system. CURE Children's Hospital of Uganda CURE Children's Hospital
First test of anti-epilepsy surgeries in children shows dramatic benefit [SEP] Epilepsy-intellectual disability in females // is particularly indicated in children who have had cluster seizures in series. It is also recommended for patients who are diagnosed GEFS+ and when the seizures are associated with fever, infection, experienced regression, delayed cognitive growth or behavioral problems. The test is typically ordered by neurologists. The diagnostic test can be done by drawing blood or saliva of the patient and their immediate family. It is analyzed in laboratories that specialize in genetic testing. Genetic testing can aid in a firmer diagnosis and understanding of the disorder, may aid in identifying the optimal treatment plan and if positive, testing of
First test of anti-epilepsy surgeries in children shows dramatic benefit [SEP] Epilepsy // second seizure. It cannot be used to rule out the diagnosis and may be falsely positive in those without the disease. In certain situations it may be useful to perform the EEG while the affected individual is sleeping or sleep deprived. Diagnostic imaging by CT scan and MRI is recommended after a first non-febrile seizure to detect structural problems in and around the brain. MRI is generally a better imaging test except when bleeding is suspected, for which CT is more sensitive and more easily available. If someone attends the emergency room with a seizure but returns to normal quickly,
First test of anti-epilepsy surgeries in children shows dramatic benefit [SEP] Epilepsy in children // the case of temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE), studies have shown that there is structural compromise to the fiber tracts associated with memory and language, providing some explanation for the impairments in patients with epilepsy. Language abilities in pediatric epilepsy cases are evaluated using electrical cortical stimulation (ECS) language mapping, electrocorticography (ECoG), fMRI, Wada testing, and magnetoencephalography (MEG). fMRI has been shown to offer a promising strategy for defining language activation patterns as well as laterization patterns. It is important to identify language regions involved in epilepsy, particularly temporal lobe epilepsy, before surgical resection in order to reduce the risk of
First test of anti-epilepsy surgeries in children shows dramatic benefit [SEP] Benign infantile epilepsy // by a gap of one to three months. Treatment with anticonvulsant drugs is not necessary but they are often prescribed and are effective at controlling the seizures. This form of epilepsy resolves after one or two years, and appears to be completely benign. The EEG of these children, between seizures, is normal. The brain appears normal on MRI scan. The familial and nonfamilial forms have overlapping features and the presence of a family history of infantile seizures may be the only distinguishing criterion. The nonfamiliar form has a larger range of the onset of seizures: from three to twenty months
First test of anti-epilepsy surgeries in children shows dramatic benefit [SEP] Reflex seizure // tests. These tests may include a electroencephalography (EEG), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), as well as genetic testing. The procedure for diagnosing epilepsy generally follows three steps: The treatment of reflex epilepy generally involves decreasing exposure to a person's triggers as well as anti-epileptic medications. Specific treatment depends both on the person as well on the kind of reflex triggers. For example, in photosensitive epilepsy, some people may rely only on managing exposure to their triggers, while others, may benefit greatly from anti-epileptic drugs. In addition, different anti-epileptic medications may be used in order to treat a given person's reflex epilepsy
Texas IDs cancer cluster in polluted Houston neighborhood. [SEP] Beverly Hills Oil Field // of lawsuits in 2003, in which parents of students at the school, observing what they believed to be excess rates of certain cancers among those exposed to toxins emitted from the facility, attempted to have it shut down. Plaintiffs claimed that a "cluster" of 280 cancers—primarily Hodgkin's disease, non-Hodgkins lymphoma, and thyroid cancer, recorded over a period of about 30 years—were caused by emissions of volatile organic compounds (including benzene and toluene) from the drilling island, currently hidden behind sound walls. Samples of air taken near the site by the South Coast Air Quality Management District (AQMD) showed nothing unusual,
Texas IDs cancer cluster in polluted Houston neighborhood. [SEP] Polychlorinated biphenyl // very high PCB levels in its sewage sludge farm field fertilizer. Because of the widespread use of the contaminated sludge, SCDHEC subsequently issued PCB fish advisories for nearly all streams and rivers bordering farm fields that had been applied with city waste. The Clyde cancer cluster (also known as the Sandusky County cancer cluster) is a childhood cancer cluster that has affected many families in Clyde, Ohio and surrounding areas. PCBs were found in soil in a public park within the area of the cancer cluster. In Akron, Ohio, soil was contaminated and noxious PCB-laden fumes had been put into
Texas IDs cancer cluster in polluted Houston neighborhood. [SEP] Clyde cancer cluster // Environmental Protection Agency distributed a map of the area pinpointing the locations of the homes of children who had cancer. In late 2011 and early 2012, over a period of several months, the Environmental Protection Agency tested soil in several different parts of Clyde and surrounding areas. In late July 2012, investigators found polychlorinated biphenyls, which is a probable human carcinogen, in the soil of the property that was formerly known as Whirlpool Park, a recreational park that was owned by the Whirlpool Corporation until the park was shut down in 2008. This park, located near Green Springs, Ohio, consisted
Texas IDs cancer cluster in polluted Houston neighborhood. [SEP] Cancer Alley // chemical company Denka. The area immediately adjacent to the Denka/Dupont neoprene plant in St. John the Baptist Parish has been recognized by the EPA as having the likelihood of getting cancer from air pollution over 700 times the national average. In March 2018, a team of students from the Stanford University traveled to Louisiana to implement a household health survey in partnership with Concerned Citizens and the Stanford Human Rights Clinic. These organizations will work with the University Network for Human Rights to produce a report on the environment and health consequences of the industrial emissions in the area. A
Texas IDs cancer cluster in polluted Houston neighborhood. [SEP] Mindi Messmer // and remedial action under a variety of regulatory programs including RCRA, CERCLA, and State Superfund. Her best known work has been around drinking water protection, cancer prevention, and identifying environmental factors which may have triggered a pediatric cancer cluster in New Hampshire. Messmer serves on NH Governor Maggie Hassan’s Task Force to investigate the rhabdomyosarcoma and pleuropulmonary blastoma double pediatric cancer cluster that she identified and reported in 2014. The cluster was confirmed by the NH Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS) in 2016. She was appointed head of the Governor’s Task Force Subcommittee to coordinate efforts with the
Texas IDs cancer cluster in polluted Houston neighborhood. [SEP] Clyde cancer cluster // Brown. The amount sought was for the expenses of cleaning the houses containing benzaldehyde and for cleaning the park, as well as the damage the cluster caused altogether. The lawsuit was dismissed without prejudice, at the plaintiffs' request, in early 2015 with no reason given. Whirlpool promised to rid the property of all toxic waste in August 2015. Throughout the late 2000s and early 2010s, many citizens of Clyde, and of Ohio in general, held fundraisers, gave donations, and helped maintain memories of those who died in the cluster. Several documentaries by citizens of Clyde were created that centered around
Texas IDs cancer cluster in polluted Houston neighborhood. [SEP] University of Texas Health Science Center at San Antonio // Cancer Center's Institute for Drug Development (IDD) is internationally recognized for conducting one of the largest oncology Phase I clinical drug trials programs in the world. Fifteen of the cancer drugs most recently approved by the U.S. Food & Drug Administration underwent development or testing at the IDD. Other noted programs include: cellular and structural biology, urology, nephrology, transplantation biology, aging and longevity studies, cardiology and research imaging. UT Health San Antonio publishes a periodic magazine, "Mission". In 2006, $263 million of facility upgrades were allocated for the campus by the University of Texas System Board of Regents. This included
Texas IDs cancer cluster in polluted Houston neighborhood. [SEP] Clyde cancer cluster // had been cleared of PCB contamination. In 2006, the Ohio Department of Health recognized that the incidence of child cancer cases in the Clyde area was abnormally high, and in 2007, the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency started investigating possible causes. Many community members became angry because of what they perceived as little progress made by the agency throughout this series of investigations. The lack of possible causes found during the early investigations of the cluster was a source of continuing worry for the affected community. In December 2009, at a meeting with affected families, the Department of Health and the
Texas IDs cancer cluster in polluted Houston neighborhood. [SEP] Cancer cluster // Cancer cluster A cancer cluster is a disease cluster in which a high number of cancer cases occurs in a group of people in a particular geographic area over a limited period of time. Historical examples of work-related cancer clusters are well documented in the medical literature. Notable examples include: scrotal cancer among chimney sweeps in 18th century London; osteosarcoma among female watch dial painters in the 20th century; skin cancer in farmers; bladder cancer in dye workers exposed to aniline compounds; and leukemia and lymphoma in chemical workers exposed to benzene. Cancer cluster suspicions usually arise when members of
Texas IDs cancer cluster in polluted Houston neighborhood. [SEP] Southbelt/Ellington, Houston // land, began to look into developing the area. In 1963 Ayrshire built five homes and established a water district. A year later he sold the first home to the George West family. The area began to grow and develop quickly until the 1980s when it became known that toxic waste had been dumped in the area by Brio Refining Inc. and was causing a high number of birth defects in children living in the South Bend subdivision. Because of this 677 homes and Arlyne S. Weber Elementary were demolished and the site became the Brio Superfund site. In the 2000s
Love bugs" are the result of a genetic experiment gone wrong at the University of Florida. [SEP] Lovebug // this species, biological control of these non-pest flies is not a priority for funding. Research by L.L. Buschman showed that migration explained the introduction of the lovebug into Florida and other southeastern states, contrary to the urban myth that the University of Florida created them by manipulating DNA to control mosquito populations. Lovebugs are subject to some significant natural controls, such as various parasitic fungi, and dry weather, which dries out the thatch, resulting in a higher mortality rate for the immatures. As the lovebug migrated around the Gulf Coast, first to Texas, then Louisiana, then further eastward, the initial
Love bugs" are the result of a genetic experiment gone wrong at the University of Florida. [SEP] The Love Bug // The Love Bug The Love Bug (sometimes referred to as Herbie the Love Bug) is a 1968 American comedy film and the first in a series of films made by Walt Disney Productions that starred an anthropomorphic pearl-white, fabric-sunroofed 1963 Volkswagen racing Beetle named Herbie. It was based on the 1961 book "Car, Boy, Girl" by Gordon Buford. The movie follows the adventures of Herbie, Herbie's driver, Jim Douglas (Dean Jones), and Jim's love interest, Carole Bennett (Michele Lee). It also features Buddy Hackett as Jim's enlightened, kind-hearted friend, Tennessee Steinmetz, a character who creates "art" from used car parts.
Love bugs" are the result of a genetic experiment gone wrong at the University of Florida. [SEP] Lovebug // are attracted to light-colored surfaces, especially if they are freshly painted, but adults congregate almost anywhere, apparently reacting to the effects of sunlight on automobile fumes, asphalt, and other products affected by environmental factors still not completely understood. Urban legend holds that lovebugs are synthetic—the result of a University of Florida genetics experiment gone wrong. Much speculation about the lovebug still thrives. This is partly because the larval form of this insect is seldom seen, as it lives and feeds in the thatch of grasses for most of the year. While various fungi are suspected of being natural controls for
Love bugs" are the result of a genetic experiment gone wrong at the University of Florida. [SEP] The Love Bug (1997 film) // The Love Bug (1997 film) The Love Bug is a 1997 American made-for-television comedy adventure film and a remake of the 1968 film of the same name produced by Walt Disney Television which premiered on ABC as part of "The Wonderful World of Disney" on November 30, 1997. The remake starred Bruce Campbell and included a special appearance by Dean Jones, star of the original "Love Bug", tying it to the previous films and introduced an evil black Volkswagen named Horace, "The Hate Bug", giving the film a much darker tone than the other "Herbie" films. It is the fifth
Love bugs" are the result of a genetic experiment gone wrong at the University of Florida. [SEP] Bugs in Love // Bugs in Love Bugs in Love is a "Silly Symphonies" animated Disney short film. It was released in 1932, and was the final Symphony to be shot with black-and-white film. A carnival is made by insects out of garbage. The carnival includes a Ferris wheel made out of a bike tire and pedals, a "slide" made out of a pipe, and a record player "merry-go-round". Two love bugs are skating on a broken mirror when the female bug leaves to her house to freshen up. The male bug follows her. While the two are courting, a crow flies by and
Love bugs" are the result of a genetic experiment gone wrong at the University of Florida. [SEP] Bugs in Love // the crow. The bugs stop what they are doing and together defeat the crow and save the couple. Bugs in Love Bugs in Love is a "Silly Symphonies" animated Disney short film. It was released in 1932, and was the final Symphony to be shot with black-and-white film. A carnival is made by insects out of garbage. The carnival includes a Ferris wheel made out of a bike tire and pedals, a "slide" made out of a pipe, and a record player "merry-go-round". Two love bugs are skating on a broken mirror when the female bug leaves to her house
Love bugs" are the result of a genetic experiment gone wrong at the University of Florida. [SEP] Lovebug // of the 20th century the species had spread heavily to all areas bordering the Gulf of Mexico, as well as Georgia and South Carolina. L. A. Hetrick, writing in 1970, found the bug was also widespread in central and northern Florida and described its flights as reaching altitudes of and extending several kilometers over the Gulf. Lovebugs' larvae feed on partially decayed vegetation in the landscape and, in this respect, are beneficial to humans. Adults primarily feed on nectar from various plants, particularly sweet clover, goldenrod, and Brazilian pepper. Localized lovebug flights can number in the hundreds of thousands. The
Love bugs" are the result of a genetic experiment gone wrong at the University of Florida. [SEP] The Valentine's Day that Almost Wasn't // of love. The next morning, the cupids go out and shoot their love arrows, little do they know that the arrows were contaminated with HATE. Rubella, Bugsy and Weasel watch from the window as everyone on the street start acting hostile, arrogant and terribly evil. Cosmo notices this and decides to go to a nearby telephone booth and call Sam to report the problem. Sam decides to look in his "Soldier of Affection" magazine and finds an ad for something that might resolve the evil problem. Next thing, Bugsy notices a heart-shaped hot air balloon in the sky, which turns
Love bugs" are the result of a genetic experiment gone wrong at the University of Florida. [SEP] Bed bug control techniques // in two major US cities now includes neonicotinoids. A population genetics study of bed bugs in the United States, Canada, and Australia using a mitochondrial DNA marker found high levels of genetic variation. This suggests the studied bed bug populations did not undergo a genetic bottleneck as one would expect from insecticide control during the 1940s and 1950s, but instead, that populations may have been maintained on other hosts such as birds and bats. In contrast to the high amount of genetic variation observed with the mitochondrial DNA marker, no genetic variation in a nuclear RNA marker was observed. This
Love bugs" are the result of a genetic experiment gone wrong at the University of Florida. [SEP] Science communication // to the Entomological society of Canada posting a tweet defending her love for bugs called #BugsR4Girls. The ESC’s use of twitter was able to make a statement saying, "A young girl who loves insects is being bullied & needs our support. DM your email & we'll connect you! #BugsR4Girls". In 2017, a study done by the Pew Research Center of Journalism and Media found that "About a quarter of social media users follow science related pages and accounts. This group places both more importance and comparatively more trust on science news that comes to them through social media". Karen Peterson,
Canada faces 'critical week' in coronavirus crisis, death toll jumps. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // government, in November 2013, reported a woman in Spain, who had recently traveled to Saudi Arabia for the Islamic pilgrimage, contracted the disease. On 14 April 2014, one Filipino paramedic died in the United Arab Emirates, with six other reported to be infected with the virus. On 17 April, the UAE Ministry of Health reported another fatality and four additional cases, including the Filipino medical worker who travelled to the Philippines on 16 April. On 21 April 2014, the Health Ministry of UAE reported an additional 9 cases. In April 2012, six hospital workers were diagnosed with acute respiratory failure
Canada faces 'critical week' in coronavirus crisis, death toll jumps. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // and from that family at least one additional person presented similar symptoms but tested negative for the novel coronavirus. On 21 February 2013, WHO stated that there had been 13 laboratory-confirmed cases, 6 cases (4 fatal) from Saudi Arabia, 2 cases (both fatal) from Jordan, 2 cases from Qatar, and 3 from the UK. In March 2013, the Saudi Arabia Ministry of Health reported the death of a 39-year-old man, the 15th case and 9th death reported to WHO. On 2 May 2013, the Saudi Ministry of Health announced five people died and two other people were in critical condition
Canada faces 'critical week' in coronavirus crisis, death toll jumps. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // MERS had infected at least 60 people with cases reported in Jordan, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates (UAE), Tunisia, Germany, the United Kingdom (UK), France and Italy, with a death toll of 38. Saudi officials expressed great concern that millions of Muslims from around the world would potentially be exposed to the virus during the autumn Hajj, or pilgrimage to Mecca. In May 2014, the WHO said it was monitoring the situation as global cases of MERS appeared to be on the rise, but said the situation did not yet constitute a health emergency. On 3 June 2014,
Canada faces 'critical week' in coronavirus crisis, death toll jumps. [SEP] Coronavirus // 2013, a case of contamination from human to human in France was confirmed by the French Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. In addition, cases of person-to-person transmission have been reported by the Ministry of Health in Tunisia. Two confirmed cases seem to have caught the disease from their late father, who became ill after a visit to Qatar and Saudi Arabia. By Oct. 30 2013, there were 124 cases and 52 deaths in Saudi Arabia. After the Dutch Erasmus Medical Centre sequenced the virus, the virus was given a new name, Human Corona Virus-Erasmus Medical Centre (HCoV-EMC). The final
Canada faces 'critical week' in coronavirus crisis, death toll jumps. [SEP] SARS coronavirus // SARS coronavirus The SARS coronavirus, sometimes shortened to SARS-CoV, is the virus that causes severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS). On April 16, 2003, following the outbreak of SARS in Asia and secondary cases elsewhere in the world, the World Health Organization (WHO) issued a press release stating that the coronavirus identified by a number of laboratories was the official cause of SARS. Samples of the virus are being held in laboratories in New York City, San Francisco, Manila, Hong Kong, and Toronto. On April 12, 2003, scientists working at the Michael Smith Genome Sciences Centre in Vancouver, British Columbia finished
Canada faces 'critical week' in coronavirus crisis, death toll jumps. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // 73 to 85 years, but they have all chronic diseases." With this announcement, the unofficial global case count reached 49 while the death toll stands at 24 according to the CDC. As of 26 June 34 deaths have been recorded in the kingdom. On 1 August 2013, the World Health Organization announced three new MERS-CoV cases in that Saudi Arabia, all of them in women, two of whom were healthcare workers. "With the three new cases, Saudi Arabia's posted MERS tally increases to 74 cases with 39 deaths. The cases raise the WHO's MERS count to 94 cases and 46
Canada faces 'critical week' in coronavirus crisis, death toll jumps. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // was referred to the RITM last 4 July 2015. Another person, who was also showing symptoms, was placed in isolation after he had close contact with the said patient; eight others, who also had contacted with the patient, were identified. DOH is in the process of tracking all the people whom the patient had contacted with. The first known case of a previously unknown coronavirus was identified in a 60-year-old Saudi Arabian man with acute pneumonia, who died of renal failure in June 2012. As of 12 May 2013, two more deaths have been reported in the al-Ahsa region of
Canada faces 'critical week' in coronavirus crisis, death toll jumps. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // have been at least 3800 quarantined. On 16 April 2014, Malaysia reported its first MERS-COV related death. The person was a 54-year-old man who had traveled to Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, together with pilgrimage group composed of 18 people, from 15–28 March 2014. He became ill by 4 April, and sought remedy at a clinic in Johor on 7 April. He was hospitalized by 9 April and died on 13 April. On May 11, 2014, two persons on Medan were suspected infected by MERS-Cov (Middle Eastern Respiratory Syndrome-Corona Virus). On 31 October 2013, the World Health Organization (WHO) confirmed that one
Canada faces 'critical week' in coronavirus crisis, death toll jumps. [SEP] Coronavirus // in a small number of nucleotides. In 2003, following the outbreak of Severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) which had begun the prior year in Asia, and secondary cases elsewhere in the world, the World Health Organization (WHO) issued a press release stating that a novel coronavirus identified by a number of laboratories was the causative agent for SARS. The virus was officially named the SARS coronavirus (SARS-CoV). The epidemic resulted in over 8,000 infections, about 10% of which resulted in death. X-ray crystallography studies performed at the Advanced Light Source of Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory have begun to give hope
Canada faces 'critical week' in coronavirus crisis, death toll jumps. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // Saudi Arabia. In the latest cluster of infections, 15 cases had been confirmed, and nine of those patients had died. Ten of the 22 people who died and 22 of 44 cases reported were in Saudi Arabia. An unconfirmed case in another Saudi citizen, for which no clinical information was available, was also reported around this time. On 22 September 2012, the Saudi Ministry of Health (MOH) announced that the two cases involving Saudi citizens, caused by what they termed a "rare pattern of coronavirus," had both proven fatal. Two of the Saudi Arabia cases were from the same family
An amendment inserted by lawmakers into the state budget "exempts scientific researchers from all state animal cruelty laws. [SEP] 2017 pro-jallikattu protests // Khurshid's view, as federal laws such as the PCA are always more powerful than state laws, and in that respect the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (Tamil Nadu Amendment) Act of 2017 is not much different from the 2009 one. On 24 January, in light of the new Tamil Nadu legislation, the Centre withdrew its notification allowing the sport; this means that any new legal challenges will be directed against the new legislation. For its part, PETA India has said that it will "study" the new ordinance, and has not ruled out a challenge to the new law on the
An amendment inserted by lawmakers into the state budget "exempts scientific researchers from all state animal cruelty laws. [SEP] Animal welfare in the United States // The law also requires research facilities to be able to describe painful practices as well as implement practices that minimize pain and stress to the animals. Another requirement made under this law was for each research facility to establish an Institutional Animal Care committee to oversee research proposals and provide oversight of animal experimentation. In 1990, The Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 was amended by adding SEC. 2503, Protection of Pets (Pub.L. 101–624). This section established a holding period for cats and dogs of not less than 5 days at a holding facility of the dealer, so
An amendment inserted by lawmakers into the state budget "exempts scientific researchers from all state animal cruelty laws. [SEP] Steve King // "Humane Scorecard". Afterward, he put out a video clarifying his position, stating that it would be putting animals above humans if it were legal to watch humans fight but not animals. In July 2012, King introduced an amendment to the House Farm Bill that would legalize previously banned animal agriculture practices such as tail-docking, putting arsenic in chicken feed, and keeping impregnated pigs in small crates. "My language wipes out everything they've done with pork and veal," King said of his amendment. The Humane Society of the United States (HSUS) President Wayne Pacelle said the measure could nullify "any laws
An amendment inserted by lawmakers into the state budget "exempts scientific researchers from all state animal cruelty laws. [SEP] Dognapping // cars and cattle across state lines. The American Humane Society presented evidence of dog theft rings in Delaware, Pennsylvania, New Jersey and New York; and another witness stated that boys were being paid $2 for each dog they delivered to a dealer. Medical research organisations sought to change the bill by removing references to animals other than cats or dogs, saying that: "It would impose a well-nigh impossible burden to regulate traffic in fish, frogs, turtles, reptiles, birds and the many other mammalian forms used in laboratories." The senate was reported to have received more mail on the dognapping bill
An amendment inserted by lawmakers into the state budget "exempts scientific researchers from all state animal cruelty laws. [SEP] Brown Dog affair // Medical Journal" objected, so additional protection was introduced instead. The result was the Cruelty to Animals Act 1876, criticized by NAVS as "infamous but well-named". The Act stipulated that researchers could not be prosecuted for cruelty, but that the animal must be anaesthetized unless the anaesthesia would interfere with the point of the experiment. Each animal could be used only once, although several procedures were permitted if they were regarded as part of the same experiment. The animal had to be killed when the study was over, unless doing so would frustrate the object of the experiment. Prosecutions could take
An amendment inserted by lawmakers into the state budget "exempts scientific researchers from all state animal cruelty laws. [SEP] John Lesch // the proper treatment of animals. On May 21, 2014, Minnesota became the first state to pass the "Beagle Freedom Bill". Included in the omnibus supplemental budget bill, authors Sen. Scott Dibble and Rep. John Lesch link taxpayer-funded laboratories and educational institutions that use dogs and cats for research with nonprofit animal rescues. The animals can be placed for adoption when they are no longer needed for research. In February 2006, Lesch made a personal trip to Iraq at his own expense with the stated intention of learning as much as possible about the conflict in as short a time as
An amendment inserted by lawmakers into the state budget "exempts scientific researchers from all state animal cruelty laws. [SEP] Animal Legal Defense Fund // highway project, and vowed to use safer construction methods after settling with ALDF and conservation groups. In July, ALDF filed the first lawsuit in the nation to challenge the constitutionality of an ag gag law. Utah’s law, which criminalizes the videotaping on factory farms, attacks activity protected under the U.S. Constitution’s First and Fourteenth Amendments. In a groundbreaking end to its false advertising lawsuit against New York-based Hudson Valley Foie Gras, the national nonprofit Animal Legal Defense Fund (ALDF) is celebrating the company’s decision to stop advertising its products as “humane.” In July eleven bears were removed from gladiator-style bear
An amendment inserted by lawmakers into the state budget "exempts scientific researchers from all state animal cruelty laws. [SEP] Animal Welfare Institute // the Compassion Index (CI). Available online at Compassion Index, the frequently updated electronic tally system rates legislators based on their involvement or lack thereof on certain animal welfare measures. AWI opposed the Bipartisan Sportsmen's Act of 2014 (S. 2363; 113th Congress), calling it "an attack on our nation's wild animals and habitat." According to the organization, the bill would "eliminate the Environmental Protection Agency's authority under the Toxic Substances Control Act to regulate hazardous substances – including lead, a dangerous neurotoxin – released by ammunition and sport fishing waste." AWI launched its Animal Welfare Approved (AWA) standards program in Fall
An amendment inserted by lawmakers into the state budget "exempts scientific researchers from all state animal cruelty laws. [SEP] Animal Welfare Act of 1966 // medical [sic] research be respected and that administrative enforcement govern the Animal Welfare Act. In 1998, a court case was argued on behalf of the Animal Legal Defense Fund vs Daniel Glickman (the Secretary of Agriculture), for the inhumane treatment of a primate named Barney at a Long Island Game Farm Park and Zoo. A man name Marc Jurnove had visited this park on a regular basis and noticed this primate had been neglected. He filed suit against the USDA for failing to meet the minimum standards under the AWA and his allegations were supported by investigations. The U.S. Court
An amendment inserted by lawmakers into the state budget "exempts scientific researchers from all state animal cruelty laws. [SEP] Animal Welfare Act of 1966 // but conditions of funding. Certain conditions are also excluded from coverage by AWA. Animals that are killed prior to usage, such as frogs used in a biology class, are also not included, so long as they are killed humanely. Facilities that do not receive Federal funding, such as bear armories, were also not covered by the Act. In January 2015 Michael Moss of "The New York Times" published an exposé on the alleged mistreatment of research animals at the U.S. Meat Animal Research Center. Among other things, Moss's article asserted that the center had no veterinarians on its staff, with
Shots for food workers urged in 2 West Virginia counties. [SEP] 2016 West Virginia flood // Clay, Fayette, Monroe, Pocahontas, Roane, Summers and Webster counties. Five of those counties — Clay, Fayette, Monroe, Roane and Summers — were granted the request. As a precautionary measure, natural gas service was suspended for White Sulphur Springs in Greenbrier County. In Fayette County, where there were reports of looters, Sheriff Steve Kessler warned would-be thieves that citizens were legally armed and ready to protect what they had left. Law enforcement officials in the county later clarified that such actions were "not sanctioned by the sheriff's department." In unaffected parts of the state including Morgantown and Martinsburg, residents collected items
Shots for food workers urged in 2 West Virginia counties. [SEP] 2014 Elk River chemical spill // in Saint Albans in Kanawha County, Lincoln County and Hurricane in Putnam county were not affected by the water ban as they were served by local public water systems. The West Virginia Department of Health and Human Resources stated that 122 people had sought treatment by January 11 for symptoms including nausea and vomiting. Of those 122 people, four people had been admitted to the Charleston Area Medical Center and one at another area hospital for observation with symptoms of nausea. On January 12, the number of patients treated at hospitals for their symptoms from chemical exposure grew to about
Shots for food workers urged in 2 West Virginia counties. [SEP] West Virginia coal wars // assassinations, miners organized and armed themselves across West Virginia. From August 20, 1921, miners began rallying at Lens Creek, approximately ten miles south of West Virginia state capital of Charleston. Estimates of total numbers vary, but on August 24, between 5,000 and 20,000 miners began marching from Lens Creek into Logan County, West Virginia. Many of the miners were armed, and some acquired weapons and ammo from the towns along the march's path. Logan County Sheriff Don Chafin had assembled a fighting force of approximately 2,000 county police, state police, state militia, and Baldwin-Felts agents to stop the approaching miners
Shots for food workers urged in 2 West Virginia counties. [SEP] 2003 West Virginia sniper // victim. About five months earlier, while exiting a local Kroger supermarket, Randy Burgess was shot twice in the chest sniper-style and died the next day. Although no hard evidence connected this murder with the three that would follow, law enforcement did not dismiss the possibility. In October 2003, a joint task force investigating the shootings announced a $50,000 reward for information leading to the killer. This reward would later be increased to $100,000. A key witness who had identified a local area resident, Shawn Lester, as the shooter shortly after the murder was ignored by the Kanawha County Sheriff's Department,
Shots for food workers urged in 2 West Virginia counties. [SEP] Paul T. Farrell Jr. // receiving just under 9 percent of the vote. In his best performance, Farrell came in second place in Mingo County, beating Hillary Clinton by 113 votes. He lost to Bernie Sanders who won every county in the state. Farrell's home state of West Virginia has been the epicenter of the Opioid Epidemic. Between 2007 and 2012, drug distribution companies shipped 780 million doses of opioids to West Virginia, and 1,728 overdose deaths occurred. In 2017, Farrell filed a series of lawsuits against the drug company distributors under the state's public nuisance laws. The suits, filed on behalf of various counties,
Shots for food workers urged in 2 West Virginia counties. [SEP] Welch, West Virginia // the United States and yet there are more people getting surplus food packages in McDowell County than any county in the United States. The reason is that machines are doing the jobs of men, and we have not been able to find jobs for those men." The first recipients of modern era food stamps were the Chloe and Alderson Muncy family of Paynesville, McDowell County. Their household included fifteen persons. On May 29, 1961, in the City of Welch, as a crowd of reporters witnessed the proceedings, Secretary of Agriculture Orville Freeman delivered $95 of federal food stamps to Mr.
Shots for food workers urged in 2 West Virginia counties. [SEP] West Virginia coal wars // Testermen when he intervened on Hatfield's behalf. Other's indicate that Hatfield initiated the violence, either by firing himself or by signalling a prepared ambush. In either case, the shootout resulted in 10 dead: Mayor Testerman, 2 miners, and 7 Baldwin-Felts agents, including Baldwin-Felts Agency Chief Thomas Felts' younger brothers, Albert and Lee. Support for unionization in Mingo County increased after the Matewan Shootout. By July 1, 1920, in the county had unionized and joined the UWM strike. Miners and mine guards engaged in several armed skirmishes over the closure of coal mines and access to rail routes in the summer
Shots for food workers urged in 2 West Virginia counties. [SEP] West Virginia Ordnance Works // West Virginia Ordnance Works West Virginia Ordnance Works (WVOW) was a United States Army ammunition manufacturing facility constructed and operated during World War II. It was located north of Point Pleasant, West Virginia in Mason County encompassing . The $45 million plant employed 3500 at its peak and operated from 1942 to 1945. The site was disposed of following the war and land was utilized by creating a landfill, the McClintic Wildlife Management Area, the Mason County Airport and an industrial park among others. It was also around here that the first known sighting of the cryptid dubbed "Mothman" occurred
Shots for food workers urged in 2 West Virginia counties. [SEP] Eugene Crum // 2013, in Williamson, West Virginia, shortly after noon. Tennis Melvin Maynard, age 37, of Ragland, West Virginia, walked up to the sheriff's SUV and at point blank range, allegedly shot Crum in the forehead and temple region, killing him instantly. After killing Crum, Maynard fled from the scene travelling south on U.S. 52 toward Delbarton, where he was shot and seriously wounded by Mingo County Sheriff's Department Corporal Norman Mines, after pulling a gun on them. Maynard was transported to Regional Medical Center in Logan County, West Virginia, and was later transferred to Cabell Huntington Hospital in Huntington, West Virginia.
Shots for food workers urged in 2 West Virginia counties. [SEP] Jefferson County Sheriff's Department (West Virginia) // response. The court services section provides security for the Jefferson County courthouse, service of all court-ordered writs, and prisoner detention and transportation. The agency also has one of the best reserve programs in the state of West Virginia with about 25 reserve deputies. It runs a part-time academy, the Eastern Panhandle Deputy Sheriff Reserve Academy, lasting about six months. Other agencies in the state send their reserve deputies to that academy for training. In February 2007, Corporal Ronald Fletcher was shot and critically wounded during a stand-off at the residence of the girlfriend of a suspect, Dorsey Cox. Cox had
Georgia shelter quarantines dog area for parvovirus. [SEP] Canine parvovirus // for immunity. A modified live vaccine many confer protection in 3 to 5 days; the contagious individual should remain in quarantine until other animals are protected. Canine parvovirus Canine parvovirus type 2 (CPV2, colloquially parvo) is a contagious virus mainly affecting dogs, and thought to originate in cats. The current consensus is that the feline panleukopenia virus mutated into CPV2. Parvo is highly contagious and is spread from dog to dog by direct or indirect contact with their feces. Vaccines can prevent this infection, but mortality can reach 91% in untreated cases. Treatment often involves veterinary hospitalization. Canine parvovirus may
Georgia shelter quarantines dog area for parvovirus. [SEP] Canine parvovirus // Canine parvovirus Canine parvovirus type 2 (CPV2, colloquially parvo) is a contagious virus mainly affecting dogs, and thought to originate in cats. The current consensus is that the feline panleukopenia virus mutated into CPV2. Parvo is highly contagious and is spread from dog to dog by direct or indirect contact with their feces. Vaccines can prevent this infection, but mortality can reach 91% in untreated cases. Treatment often involves veterinary hospitalization. Canine parvovirus may infect other mammals including foxes, wolves, cats, and skunks; however, it will not infect humans. Dogs that develop the disease show signs of the illness within
Georgia shelter quarantines dog area for parvovirus. [SEP] Canine parvovirus // virus (FPLV). CPV2 may spread to cats easier than dogs and undergo faster rates of mutation within that species. There are two types of canine parvovirus called canine minute virus (CPV1) and CPV2. CPV2 causes the most serious disease and affects domesticated dogs and wild canids. There are variants of CPV type 2 called CPV-2a, CPV-2b and CPV-2c. The antigenic patterns of 2a and 2b are quite similar to the original CPV type 2. Variant 2c however has a unique pattern of antigenicity. This has led to claims of ineffective vaccination of dogs, but studies have shown that the existing
Georgia shelter quarantines dog area for parvovirus. [SEP] Parvovirus // chicken parvovirus), and viii) "Copiparvovirus" (e.g. bovine parvovirus 2). "Canine parvovirus" is a particularly deadly disease among young puppies, about 80% fatal, causing gastrointestinal tract damage and dehydration, as well as a cardiac syndrome in very young animals. It is spread by contact with an infected dog's feces. Symptoms include lethargy, severe diarrhea, fever, vomiting, loss of appetite, and dehydration. "Mouse parvovirus 1", however, causes no symptoms, but can contaminate immunology experiments in biological research laboratories. "Porcine parvovirus" causes a reproductive disease in swine known as SMEDI, which stands for stillbirth, mummification, embryonic death, and infertility. Feline panleukopenia is common
Georgia shelter quarantines dog area for parvovirus. [SEP] Parvovirus // of parvovirus show related routes to the cell nucleus. Canine parvovirus is a mutant strain of feline parvovirus. A very specific mutation is necessary for the virus to change species of infection. The mutation affects capsid proteins of feline parvovirus, giving it the ability to infect dogs. Both forms of the virus are very similar, so once the mutation has occurred, canine parvovirus is still able to infect cats. The canine parvovirus has the tradeoff of gaining the ability to infect canine cells, while becoming less effective at infecting feline cells. Both feline parvovirus and canine parvovirus bind to and
Georgia shelter quarantines dog area for parvovirus. [SEP] Canine parvovirus // such as soil for over 10 years. It survives extremely low and high temperatures. The only household disinfectant that kills the virus is bleach. The dilute bleach solution needs to be a (1:10 ratio) to disinfect and kill parvovirus. Puppies are generally vaccinated in a series of doses, extending from the earliest time that the immunity derived from the mother wears off until after that passive immunity is definitely gone. Older puppies (16 weeks or older) are given 3 vaccinations 3 to 4 weeks apart. The duration of immunity of vaccines for CPV2 has been tested for all major vaccine
Georgia shelter quarantines dog area for parvovirus. [SEP] Parvovirus // of animal they will infect, but this is a somewhat flexible characteristic. Thus, all isolates of canine parvovirus affect dogs, wolves, and foxes, but only some of them will infect cats. Humans can be infected by viruses from five of the eight genera in the subfamily "Parvovirinae": i) "Bocaparvovirus" (e.g. human bocavirus 1), ii) "Dependoparvovirus" (e.g. adeno-associated virus 2), iii) "Erythroparvovirus" (e.g. parvovirus B19), iv) "Protoparvovirus" (e.g. bufavirus 1a), and v) "Tetraparvovirus" (e.g. human parv4 G1). As of 2014, no known human viruses were in the remaining three recognized genera: vi) "Amdoparvovirus" (e.g. Aleutian mink disease virus), vii) "Aveparvovirus" (e.g.
Georgia shelter quarantines dog area for parvovirus. [SEP] Canine parvovirus // daily monitoring by a veterinarian. Parvovirus CPV2 is a relatively new disease that appeared in the late 1970s. It was first recognized in 1978 and spread worldwide in one to two years. The virus is very similar to feline panleukopenia (also a parvovirus); they are 98% identical, differing only in two amino acids in the viral capsid protein VP2. It is also highly similar to mink enteritis, and the parvoviruses of raccoons and foxes. It is possible that CPV2 is a mutant of an unidentified parvovirus (similar to feline parvovirus (FPV)) of some wild carnivore. A strain of CPV2b (strain
Georgia shelter quarantines dog area for parvovirus. [SEP] Canine parvovirus // CPV vaccines based on CPV type 2b, provide adequate levels of protection against CPV type 2c. Prevention is the only way to ensure that a puppy or dog remain healthy because the disease is extremely virulent and contagious. Appropriate vaccination should be performed starting at 7–8 weeks of age, with a booster given every 3–4 weeks until at "least" 16 weeks of age. Likewise, pregnant mothers should not be vaccinated as it will abort the puppies and could make the mother extremely sick. The virus is extremely hardy and has been found to survive in feces and other organic material
Georgia shelter quarantines dog area for parvovirus. [SEP] Canine parvovirus // order to begin early treatment and increase survival rate if the disease is found. Treatment ideally also consists of crystalloid IV fluids and/or colloids (e.g., Hetastarch), antinausea injections (antiemetics) such as maropitant, metoclopramide, dolasetron, ondansetron and prochlorperazine, and broad-spectrum antibiotic injections such as cefazolin/enrofloxacin, ampicillin/enrofloxacin, metronidazole, timentin, or enrofloxacin. IV fluids are administered and antinausea and antibiotic injections are given subcutaneously, intramuscularly, or intravenously. The fluids are typically a mix of a sterile, balanced electrolyte solution, with an appropriate amount of B-complex vitamins, dextrose and potassium chloride. Analgesic medications can be used to counteract the intestinal discomfort caused by frequent
Stephen Hawking's thesis and wheelchair sell for $1 million. [SEP] Stephen Hawking // University, 1965) and wheelchair, took place, and fetched about £1.8m (more than $2.3m). Proceeds from the auction sale of the wheelchair are to go to two charities, the Motor Neurone Disease Association and the Stephen Hawking Foundation,; proceeds from Hawking's other items are to go to his estate. In 2006, Hawking posed an open question on the Internet: "In a world that is in chaos politically, socially and environmentally, how can the human race sustain another 100 years?", later clarifying: "I don't know the answer. That is why I asked the question, to get people to think about it, and
Stephen Hawking's thesis and wheelchair sell for $1 million. [SEP] Leveraged Freedom Chair // price point of US$2,195, which sold out. Leveraged Freedom Chair The Leveraged Freedom Chair (LFC) is an all-terrain wheelchair made from bicycle parts. Amos Winter, a PHD graduate from MIT, travelled to Tanzania during his work, and found that conventional wheelchairs are inadequate in areas without wheelchair accessible roads and buildings. He and his students from his mechanical engineering class worked together on the development of the project. The tests of the LFC were conducted in East Africa, Guatemala and India. In addition to a normal wheelchair pushrim, the wheelchair has a lever drivetrain that lets the user grip the
Stephen Hawking's thesis and wheelchair sell for $1 million. [SEP] Erwin Tomash // in September 2018. The copy of Galileo's "Difesa contro alle Calunnie et Imposture di Baldessar Capra Milanese" (1607), with a handwritten inscription by Galileo, sold for £466,000 (US$616,378). The Adelle and Erwin Tomash Fellowship in the History of Information Technology is awarded to a graduate student for doctoral dissertation research in the history of computing. The fellowship is to be held at the recipient's home academic institution, the Charles Babbage Institute, or any other location with appropriate research facilities. It is intended for students who have completed all requirements for the doctoral degree except the research and writing of the
Stephen Hawking's thesis and wheelchair sell for $1 million. [SEP] Stephen Hawking // smartphone keyboards. By 2009 he could no longer drive his wheelchair independently, but the same people who created his new typing mechanics were working on a method to drive his chair using movements made by his chin. This proved difficult, since Hawking could not move his neck, and trials showed that while he could indeed drive the chair, the movement was sporadic and jumpy. Near the end of his life, Hawking experienced increased breathing difficulties, often resulting in his requiring the usage of a ventilator, and being regularly hospitalised. Starting in the 1990s, Hawking accepted the mantle of role model
Stephen Hawking's thesis and wheelchair sell for $1 million. [SEP] Leveraged Freedom Chair // torque on rough terrain.The levers can be removed and stored on the chair, allowing it to be used like a normal wheelchair indoors. The wheelchairs are designed to be produced at low cost from commonly available bicycle parts, and to be repaired and maintained at local bicycle shops. The chair is developed by a group called Global Research Innovation & Technology. The chair is sold at around US $250 to NGOs, less than the price of common wheelchairs. The GRIT Freedom Chair is an off-road sports chair designed for the developed world. The product launched on Kickstarter with a lowest
Stephen Hawking's thesis and wheelchair sell for $1 million. [SEP] Stephen Hawking // the Universe" (2008). Hawking also guest-starred in "Futurama" and "The Big Bang Theory". Hawking allowed the use of his copyrighted voice in the biographical 2014 film "The Theory of Everything", in which he was portrayed by Eddie Redmayne in an Academy Award-winning role. Hawking was featured at the "Monty Python Live (Mostly)" in 2014. He was shown to sing an extended version of the Galaxy Song, after running down Brian Cox with his wheelchair, in a pre-recorded video. Hawking used his fame to advertise products, including a wheelchair, National Savings, British Telecom, Specsavers, Egg Banking, and Go Compare. In 2015
Stephen Hawking's thesis and wheelchair sell for $1 million. [SEP] Stephen Hawking // for disabled people, lecturing and participating in fundraising activities. At the turn of the century, he and eleven other luminaries signed the "Charter for the Third Millennium on Disability", which called on governments to prevent disability and protect the rights of the disabled. In 1999, Hawking was awarded the Julius Edgar Lilienfeld Prize of the American Physical Society. In August 2012, Hawking narrated the "Enlightenment" segment of the 2012 Summer Paralympics opening ceremony in London. In 2013, the biographical documentary film "Hawking", in which Hawking himself is featured, was released. In September 2013, he expressed support for the legalisation of
Stephen Hawking's thesis and wheelchair sell for $1 million. [SEP] Kuno Goda // contemporary artwork for digital currency. The work is dedicated to anonymous bitcoin protocol creator Satoshi Nakamoto. In March 2014 the work was sold to a Seattle businessman for an undisclosed amount. The Wall Street Journal reported a selling price of $125.000 but the artist later clarified that the price was much lower. His Ethereum-related work "Glideth" features all four permutations of the renowned hacker emblem the "Glider", hand-printed on a copper-clad plate.<br> On World Press Freedom Day 2016 he published a book called "Tell All - How To Bypass Media Censorship". As a commentary to book censorship, the book itself
Stephen Hawking's thesis and wheelchair sell for $1 million. [SEP] Helmut Friedlaender // up over the previous 30 years was put up for sale, totaling 559 lots. Among the items sold were Cicero's "De Officiis", printed in 1465 and one of the first classical works ever printed, sold for $666,000. An illuminated manuscript from Bohemia of St. Gregory's "Moralia in Job" from the 14th century that retained its original doeskin binding, sold for $248,000. After the auction was held, Friedlaender would repurchase some of the items on the open market. The managing director of the London bookshop Bernard Quaritch said that Friedlaender would look at these items as lost children and say "I’m
Stephen Hawking's thesis and wheelchair sell for $1 million. [SEP] John L. Marion // of his career, he oversaw the sale of "Irises" by Vincent van Gogh for US$53.9 million, "Yo Picasso" for US$47.9 million and "Au Lapin Agile" for US$40.7 million (both of which by Pablo Picasso), as well as "Interchange" by Willem de Kooning for US$20.7 million, and "False Start" for US$17 million and "Two Flags" US$12.1 million (both of which are by Jasper Johns). In 1989, with Christopher Andersen, he co-wrote, "The Best of Everything: The Insider's Guide to Collecting--For Every Taste and Every Budget", published by Simon & Schuster. The book suggests anyone can attend auctions and become a collector,
Arkansas Colleges of Health Education celebrates 5 years. [SEP] University of Arkansas College of Education & Health Professions // University of Arkansas College of Education & Health Professions The College of Education & Health Professions is the University of Arkansas's college for students with interest in the education and health professions. The College has five departments, and an honors program through the Honors College. In 2015, Fulbright College awarded the second-most undergraduate degrees of the eight colleges at the University of Arkansas. Two degrees are offered by the School of Nursing, the Bachelor of Science in Nursing, and a cohort-based Master of Science in Nursing Online Clinical Program, which will take a full-time student 2½ years to complete. A
Arkansas Colleges of Health Education celebrates 5 years. [SEP] University of Arkansas College of Education & Health Professions // gallery shows the facilities of the College, with years used in parentheses. University of Arkansas College of Education & Health Professions The College of Education & Health Professions is the University of Arkansas's college for students with interest in the education and health professions. The College has five departments, and an honors program through the Honors College. In 2015, Fulbright College awarded the second-most undergraduate degrees of the eight colleges at the University of Arkansas. Two degrees are offered by the School of Nursing, the Bachelor of Science in Nursing, and a cohort-based Master of Science in Nursing Online Clinical
Arkansas Colleges of Health Education celebrates 5 years. [SEP] University of Central Arkansas // of Health and Behavioral Sciences, the College of Liberal Arts, and the College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics. The university is famous for its innovative Honors College, which has received national recognition for its excellence. Small classes, distinguished faculty, TAG and URGE grants for students, high ACT and SAT scores, and outstanding medical and graduate school admission rates are hallmarks of the College. In 2006, "U.S. News & World Report" ranked UCA 61st in the South in academic excellence. This marks the first year that UCA has been ranked. UCA was the only public Arkansas university in that category. In
Arkansas Colleges of Health Education celebrates 5 years. [SEP] University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences // City Hospital, which moved with it; it became known as University Hospital, and more recently UAMS Medical Center. The education mission of the institution also has grown. In 1951, the School of Pharmacy was established, followed in 1953 by the School of Nursing. In 1970, the School of Health Related Professions was approved by the University of Arkansas System Board of Trustees. In 1995, the UAMS Graduate School was granted independent status from the Graduate School at the University of Arkansas. In 2003, the College of Public Health opened. In 2005, the College of Public Health was named for the
Arkansas Colleges of Health Education celebrates 5 years. [SEP] Arkansas State University–Mountain Home // in education from Ouachita Baptist University and his master's degree in education and his doctorate in education from the University of Arkansas. After three years as a public school principal,he served 25 years at Ouachita Baptist University, as assistant to the president, and as Vice president for administration. Coulter has served previously as the chair of the American Association of Community Colleges Board of Directors. He also has served on the American Cancer Society's board of directors as well as the Arkansas Chamber of Commerce and as a corporate board member of the Baptist Medical Center System. On August 1,
Arkansas Colleges of Health Education celebrates 5 years. [SEP] University of Central Arkansas // training was still an important part of the school's mission, other fields began to expand in liberal arts studies and in the emerging field of health care. To recognize the institution's existing academic diversity another name change was in order. In January 1967, Arkansas State Teachers College became the State College of Arkansas. President Silas Snow, who championed the name change in 1967, organized State College of Arkansas along university lines in preparation for still yet another name change. State College of Arkansas grew rapidly and offered an ever-widening range of degree programs. By January 1975, Snow’s efforts were realized
Arkansas Colleges of Health Education celebrates 5 years. [SEP] University of Central Arkansas // studies, gender studies, Latin American studies, and Southern and Arkansas studies minor programs. The College of Education (COE) is Arkansas’ premier educator preparation college. We are dedicated to providing exemplary programs for the preparation of professional educators, including teacher preparation, educational leadership, school counseling, library media, instructional technologies, higher education student personnel administration, and other related professional fields. Our results are impressive with UCA graduates scoring above the state and/or national averages on all important indicators of candidate success. offers University of Central Arkansas students Ph.D., educational specialists, master's, and bachelor's degree programs. The College of Education recently unveiled the
Arkansas Colleges of Health Education celebrates 5 years. [SEP] Southern Arkansas University // it by the State Legislature, decided to develop the college at a four-year, degree-granting institution. The Board authorized the addition of third-year college level courses to being with the fall semester of 1950. Fourth-year courses were added in the fall semester of 1951. By Act Eleven (January 24, 1951), the State Legislature changed the name of the institution to Southern State College. In 1975, the institution was approved and accredited to offer a Master of Education Degree in selected areas. Following approval of the Board of Trustees, the name of the institution was changed to Southern Arkansas University by the
Arkansas Colleges of Health Education celebrates 5 years. [SEP] Shorter College (Arkansas) // O. Jerome Green, 45th president, Shorter College became fully accredited with TRACS allowing students to earn associate degrees that are recognized by other institutions. Shorter College (Arkansas) Shorter College is a two-year, private, historically black liberal arts college located in North Little Rock, Arkansas. It was founded in 1886 (originally as "Bethel University") by the African Methodist Episcopal Church as a logical and pragmatic response to the need of recently freed slaves to overcome the many disadvantages and deprivations of slavery and racial discrimination. This was a time, little more than twenty years after the end of the Civil War
Arkansas Colleges of Health Education celebrates 5 years. [SEP] University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences // late Dr. Fay W. Boozman, a UAMS graduate who led the Arkansas Department of Health from 1998 until his death in 2005. In 1975, the names of the schools on campus were changed to colleges and the executive officer’s title became chancellor. In 1980, after being known by several different names through history, the institution’s name changed to the University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences (UAMS). Dr. James L. Dennis was named the first chancellor. He was originally named vice president of health sciences in 1970, becoming chancellor in 1975 when the title of the institution’s executive officer was changed.
Recipe winners dine on brussels sprouts, smoothies at White House. [SEP] Celebrity Cooking Showdown // with Raspberries by a final score of 36-34. Gabrielle finished a distant third, her meal of Tuna Tartare with Crispy Nori and Fresh Wasabi, Dover Sole with Artichoke Purée, Green Beans, and Marinated Tomatoes, D’Anjou Napoleon with Spiced Cranberry Reduction scoring a very mediocre 26 points. On Wednesday, April 19, the pairings were Tom Arnold with Wolfgang, Chelsea Cooley with Cat and Big Kenny with Govind. Chelsea's menu of Charred Kobe-style Beef with Asian Pear Slaw and Honey-Miso Vinaigrette, Spicy Tuna Belly and Asparagus Roll with Wasabi Crème Fraîche, and Green Tea Parfait with Kiwi and Cashews eked out a
Recipe winners dine on brussels sprouts, smoothies at White House. [SEP] White House Vegetable Garden // heirloom seeds and 10 different herbs such as anise hyssop and Thai basil. Former presidents' favorite produce were also sown, such as President Thomas Jefferson’s preferred vegetables, “Brown Dutch and Tennis Ball lettuce, Prickly Seed spinach and Savoy cabbage” but beets were not grown because President Obama did not like them. Along with the vegetable garden, a beehive was added near the chef’s kitchen that is overseen by Charlie Brandts, a beekeeper and White House carpenter. Honey collected from the beehives has been used to brew White House Honey Ale. The contributing gardeners responsible for the early stages of the
Recipe winners dine on brussels sprouts, smoothies at White House. [SEP] Bruno Serato // KFI Pastathon will be held on December 7, 2018 at the Christ Cathedral. The Anaheim White House serves a variety of delicate and exquisite food ranging from steak and lobster to beautifully-plated sushi dishes and desert Bruno's prized Anaheim White House Restaurant is also available for private events in its west-wing banquet room as well as the restaurant floor. Joining the ranks of other restaurant industry greats including Ella Brennan, the 92-year-old owner of Commander's Palace, Ted Balestreri of Cannery Row in Monterrey and Ruth Fertel, founder of Ruth's Chris Steakhouse, Sir Bruno Serato of the Anaheim White House will
Recipe winners dine on brussels sprouts, smoothies at White House. [SEP] White House Vegetable Garden // the South Lawn of the White House on March 20, 2009. This L-shaped garden is located by the mansion’s tennis courts and can be seen from E street. The plot provides more than 55 varieties of vegetables along with fruits that were incorporated into meals made for the Obama family and invited guests. Another portion of the yields are donated to the local soup kitchen and the Food Bank Organization. The vegetables grown include: arugula (rocket), cilantro (coriander), tomatillo, hot peppers, spinach, chard, collards, black kale, berries and lettuce. In addition to the seeds selected to be planted are 25
Recipe winners dine on brussels sprouts, smoothies at White House. [SEP] Celebrity Cooking Showdown // Blue-Cheese Stuffed Tenderloin and Citrus Crepes finished a close third with 31 points. Alison also suffered a burned hand when she grabbed a hot metal saucepan without a mitt. On Tuesday, April 18, the pairings were Ashley Parker Angel and Wolfgang, Patti LaBelle and Cat, and Gabrielle Reece and Gorvind. Ashley's choices of Curried Chicken and Shrimp Satays with Peanut Sauce, Vegetarian Pizza with Wild Mushrooms and Pesto, and Caramelized Lemon Crème Brûlée with Fresh Berries defeated Patti's Black-eyed Pea Croquettes with Spicy Aioli and Dandelion Greens-Tasso Ham, Blackened Shrimp and Grits with Spring Asparagus Petite Salad and Coconut Cake
Recipe winners dine on brussels sprouts, smoothies at White House. [SEP] Celebrity Cooking Showdown // 35-34-34 victory over Tom's Scalloped Corn Casserole with Apple Smoked Bacon, Prime Beef Burgers with Gorgonzola and Special Sauce, Molten Chocolate Cake with Whipped Cream and Kenny's Dungeness Crab with White Asparagus and Hazelnut Vinaigrette, Seared Kobe-style Beef with Potato Mousseline and Chanterelle Mushroom Salad and Fried Cookies and Cream. The finals, broadcast over both NBC.com's website and on television on April 22, paired Cindy with Wolfgang, Ashley with Cat, and Chelsea with Govind. For this round, the contestants were paired up with their chefs by random draw and given just one day to practice their dishes. The competition started
Recipe winners dine on brussels sprouts, smoothies at White House. [SEP] White House Vegetable Garden // to make more fruits and vegetables accessible to children. The vegetable garden's supporters believe the Obamas' role modeling of local sustainable gardening will have a positive effect. The White House’s Executive Chef Walter Scheib is enthusiastic about the fresh ingredients and states, "There has always been a small garden at the White House, but this commitment by Mrs. Obama to a local and freshly grown product is a progressive move forward that will raise the profile and awareness of local and sustainable food both at the White House and nationally to an unprecedented level.” Vegetable gardens were non-existent for a
Recipe winners dine on brussels sprouts, smoothies at White House. [SEP] Walter Scheib // the Clintons was demanding. Hillary Clinton enjoyed hot sauces, and Bill Clinton loved to gorge on cheeseburgers and a 24-ounce porterhouse steak with béarnaise sauce and onion rings whenever the First Lady was absent. Chelsea Clinton's decision to become a vegetarian in 1999 created major problems for the kitchen staff, who could no longer use the same utensils and pans for cooking meat and vegetables. White House Executive Chefs do not normally change when a new administration arrives, and, as usual, President George W. Bush and First Lady Laura Bush retained Scheib when they entered the White House in 2000.
Recipe winners dine on brussels sprouts, smoothies at White House. [SEP] René Verdon // of food served by the White House. Meals had previously been supplied by either outside caterers or Navy stewards and were not known for their high standard. Verdon's first commission was an informal luncheon the Kennedys' hosted for Princess Grace and Prince Rainier of Monaco. He used ingredients such as crab, spring lamb and strawberries. His first official meal was for sixteen guests including British prime minister Harold Macmillan. Verdon served a menu of trout in Chablis and sauce Vincent, beef filet au jus and artichoke bottoms Beaucaire as well as his own dessert of meringue filled with raspberries chocolate.
Recipe winners dine on brussels sprouts, smoothies at White House. [SEP] Walter Scheib // distinctively American cooking techniques, dishes, and presentation, something she believed Scheib could bring to the White House. She also wanted to get away from the cream- and fat-heavy dishes of French cooking. Scheib was competing against some of the best chefs in the United States, including Nora Pouillon and Patrick Clark (then at the Hay–Adams Hotel). Scheib auditioned before the First Lady and several other women by presenting pecan-encrusted lamb, red-curried sweet potatoes, and morel sauce. While other chefs primarily brought in dishes they normally serve in their restaurants, Scheib's lunch featured a wide variety of American cuisines: Cal-Italian, Mid-Atlantic,
Death is listed as a side effect of the MMR vaccine. [SEP] MMR vaccine // mortality associated with mumps and rubella." The combined MMR vaccine was introduced to induce immunity less painfully than three separate injections at the same time, and sooner and more efficiently than three injections given on different dates. Additionally, England Public Health found that providing a single combined vaccine as of 1988 rather than giving the option to have them also done separately increased uptake of the vaccine. As measles and rubella cause upper respiratory disease that leads to complications of pneumonia and bronchitis which are also caused by varicella, MMR vaccine is beneficial to control exacerbations of chronic obstructive pulmonary
Death is listed as a side effect of the MMR vaccine. [SEP] MMR vaccine controversy // three dead children. Other parents received no compensation because the government said that it was unproven that the MMR vaccine had been the cause; they decided to sue the manufacturer instead of the government. The Osaka district court ruled on 13 March 2003 that the death of two children (among numerous other serious conditions) had been indeed caused by Japan's strain of Urabe MMR. In 2006, the Osaka High Court stated in another ruling that the state was responsible for failing to properly supervise a manufacturer of the measles-mumps-rubella vaccine, which caused severe side effects in children. Commenced before the
Death is listed as a side effect of the MMR vaccine. [SEP] MMR vaccine controversy // 100 years". Physicians, medical journals, and editors have described Wakefield's actions as fraudulent and tied them to epidemics and deaths. Before the autism-related controversy started in 1998, some concern had already arisen about the safety of the MMR vaccine due to side effects associated with the Urabe mumps strain, including rare adverse events of aseptic meningitis, a transient mild form of viral meningitis. A late-1980s trial in Britain of a form of the MMR vaccine containing the Urabe mumps strain produced three cases of probably associated febrile convulsions per 1,000 vaccinations. Concerns about adverse reactions to the vaccine were raised
Death is listed as a side effect of the MMR vaccine. [SEP] MMR vaccine // Side effects of immunization are generally mild and go away without any specific treatment. These may include fever, and pain or redness at the injection site. Severe allergic reactions occur in about one in a million people. The MMR vaccine is not recommended during pregnancy, however, may be given while breastfeeding. The vaccine is safe to give at the same time as other vaccines. Being recently immunized does not increase the risk of passing measles, mumps, or rubella on to others. Vaccination does not increase the risk of autism. The MMR vaccine is a mixture of live weakened viruses of
Death is listed as a side effect of the MMR vaccine. [SEP] Vaccination // subsequent cases of permanent hearing loss and death caused by the disease. In the MMR vaccine controversy, a fraudulent 1998 paper by Andrew Wakefield, originally published in "The Lancet", presented falsified evidence that the MMR vaccine (an immunization against measles, mumps and rubella that is typically first administered to children shortly after their first birthday) was linked to the onset of autism spectrum disorders. The article was widely criticized for lack of scientific rigour, partially retracted in 2004 by Wakefield's co-authors, and was fully retracted by "The Lancet" in 2010. Wakefield was struck off the UK's medical registry for the
Death is listed as a side effect of the MMR vaccine. [SEP] Varicella vaccine // death was reported: an English child with pre-existent leukemia. On some occasions, severe reactions such as meningitis and pneumonia have been reported (mainly in inadvertently vaccinated immunocompromised children) as well as anaphylaxis. The possible mild side effects include redness, stiffness, and soreness at the injection site, as well as fever. A few people may develop a mild rash, which usually appears around the injection site. There is a short-term risk of developing herpes zoster (shingles) following vaccination. However, this risk is less than the risk due to a natural infection resulting in chickenpox. Most of the cases reported have been
Death is listed as a side effect of the MMR vaccine. [SEP] MMR vaccine // Urabe strain is much cheaper to manufacture than with the Jeryl Lynn strain, and a strain with higher efficacy along with a somewhat higher rate of mild side effects may still have the advantage of reduced incidence of overall adverse events. A Cochrane review found that, compared with placebo, MMR vaccine was associated with fewer upper respiratory tract infections, more irritability, and a similar number of other adverse effects. Naturally acquired measles often occurs with immune thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP, a purpuric rash and an increased tendency to bleed that resolves within two months in children). Between 1 in 25,000 and
Death is listed as a side effect of the MMR vaccine. [SEP] Vaccine // The rate of side effects depends on the vaccine in question. Some common side effects include fever, pain around the injection site, and muscle aches. Additionally, some individuals may be allergic to ingredients in the vaccine. MMR vaccine is rarely associated with febrile seizures. Severe side effects are extremely rare. Varicella vaccine is rarely associated with complications in immunodeficient individuals and rotavirus vaccines are moderately associated with intussusception. Some countries such as the United Kingdom provide compensation for victims of severe adverse effects via its Vaccine Damage Payment. The United States has the National Childhood Vaccine Injury Act. At least
Death is listed as a side effect of the MMR vaccine. [SEP] MMR vaccine controversy // relied heavily on the discredited "Lancet" paper and largely ignored the scientific evidence presented to it. The decision was appealed. On 13 February 2015, the decision was overturned by a Court of Appeals in Bologna. The MMR scare caused a low percentage of mumps vaccination (less than 30%), which resulted in outbreaks in Japan. There were up to 2002 measles-caused deaths in Japan while there were none in the UK, but the extra deaths were attributed to Japan's application of the vaccine at a later age. A spokesman for the Ministry of Health said that the discontinuation had no effect
Death is listed as a side effect of the MMR vaccine. [SEP] MMR vaccine // even (rarely) chronic arthritis. Anaphylaxis is an extremely rare but serious allergic reaction to the vaccine. One cause can be egg allergy. In 2014, the FDA approved two additional possible adverse events on the vaccination label: acute disseminated encephalomyelitis (ADEM), and transverse myelitis, with permission to also add "difficulty walking" to the package inserts. A 2012 IOM report found that the measles component of the MMR vaccine can cause measles inclusion body encephalitis in immunocompromised individuals. This report also rejected any connection between the MMR vaccine and autism. Some versions of the vaccine contain the antibiotic neomycin and therefore should
Jury clears J&J of liability in California talc cancer case. [SEP] Johnson & Johnson // cancer after using the company's talc-based products like Johnson's Baby Powder for feminine hygiene. The verdict included $70 million in compensatory damages and $347 million in punitive damages. J&J said they will appeal the verdict. In October 2017, the Missouri Eastern District appeals court on Tuesday threw out a $72 million jury verdict. The appeals court ruled 3-0 that Jacqueline Fox's lawsuit lacked jurisdiction in Missouri because of a U.S. Supreme Court decision that imposed limits on where injury lawsuit can be filed which lawsuit's jurisdiction requires a stronger connection between the forum state and a plaintiff's claims. Fox, 62,
Jury clears J&J of liability in California talc cancer case. [SEP] Johnson's Baby // 2016, J&J was ordered to pay $72 million in damages to the family of Jackie Fox, a 62-year-old woman who died of ovarian cancer in 2015. She had used Johnson's Baby Powder for many years. J&J claimed that the safety of cosmetic talc is supported by decades of scientific evidence and it plans to appeal the verdict. The British charity, Ovacome was quoted as saying that while there were 16 studies which showed that using talc increased the risk of ovarian cancer by around a third, and a 2013 review of US studies had similar results for genital, but not
Jury clears J&J of liability in California talc cancer case. [SEP] Talc // verdict of Eva Echeverria against Johnson & Johnson and its talc-containing consumer products for causing cancer. The judge stated that Eva Echeverria proved there is "an ongoing debate in the scientific and medical community about whether talc more probably than not causes ovarian cancer and thus (gives) rise to a duty to warn", but not enough to sustain the jury's imposition of liability against Johnson & Johnson stated, and concluded that Echeverria did not adequately establish that talc causes ovarian cancer. In July 2018, a court in St. Louis awarded a $4.7bn claim ($4.14bn in punitive damages and $550m in
Jury clears J&J of liability in California talc cancer case. [SEP] Talc // years before being diagnosed with ovarian cancer in 2011. In October 2016, a St. Louis jury awarded $70.1 million to a Californian woman with ovarian cancer who had used Johnson's Baby Powder for 45 years. In August 2017, a Los Angeles jury awarded $417 million to a Californian woman, Eva Echeverria, who developed ovarian cancer as a "proximate result of the unreasonably dangerous and defective nature of talcum powder", her lawsuit against Johnson & Johnson stated. At least 1,200 to 2,000 other talcum powder-related lawsuits are pending. On 20 October 2017, Los Angeles Superior Court judge Maren Nelson, dismissed the
Jury clears J&J of liability in California talc cancer case. [SEP] Talc // female genital area. Yet no federal agency in the US acted to remove talcum powder from the market or add warnings. In February 2016, as the result of a lawsuit against Johnson & Johnson (J&J), a St. Louis jury awarded $72 million to the family of an Alabama woman who died from ovarian cancer. The family claimed that the use of talcum powder was responsible for her cancer. In May 2016, a South Dakota woman was awarded $55 million as the result of another lawsuit against J&J. The woman had used Johnson & Johnson's Baby Powder for more than 35
Jury clears J&J of liability in California talc cancer case. [SEP] Levy Konigsberg // landmark talc case against a manufacturer for selling talc that was contaminated with asbestos. The firm secured a jury verdict for a man who developed mesothelioma from working in a factory that manufactured cosmetic talc products between 1967 and 1975. The firm has also litigated asbestos cases against manufacturers and suppliers of asbestos-containing automotive products. In 2008, the firm obtained a $30.3 million jury verdict in Bergen County, New Jersey in a case in which a man died from mesothelioma at the age of 50. The man was exposed to asbestos from working a few summers at a General Motors
Jury clears J&J of liability in California talc cancer case. [SEP] Johnson & Johnson // of Birmingham, Ala., died in 2015, about four months before her trial was held in St. Louis Circuit Court. She was among 65 plaintiffs, of whom only two were from Missouri. Subsequently, it also would kill three other recent St. Louis jury verdicts of more than $200 million combined. In July 2018, a St. Louis jury awarded nearly US$4.7 billion in damages to 22 women and their families after they claimed asbestos in Johnson & Johnson talcum powder caused their ovarian cancer. In August 2018, Johnson & Johnson said that it removed several chemicals from baby powder products and re-engineered
Jury clears J&J of liability in California talc cancer case. [SEP] M. Gerald Schwartzbach // 1999 jury verdict of almost $300 million in the personal injury/products liability case of "Romo v. Ford Motor Co." The case involved a family whose parents and brother died after its 1978 Ford Bronco rolled over and the roof gave way. Schwartzbach was chief trial counsel for attorney Stephen Bingham, who was acquitted of conspiracy and multiple murder charges in a Marin County Superior Court trial in 1986. The case arose out of an alleged attempted escape from San Quentin Prison by Black Panther Party member George Jackson (Black Panther), an incident that resulted in the death of Jackson, two
Jury clears J&J of liability in California talc cancer case. [SEP] Johnson & Johnson // still went ahead and made the product available. In February 2016, J&J was ordered to pay $72 million in damages to the family of Jacqueline Fox, a 62-year-old woman who died of ovarian cancer in 2015: the company said it would appeal. By March 2017, over 1,000 U.S. women had sued J&J for covering up the possible cancer risk from its Baby Powder product; the company says that 70 percent of its Baby Powder is used by adults. In August 2017, a California jury ordered Johnson & Johnson to pay $417 million to a woman who claimed she developed ovarian
Jury clears J&J of liability in California talc cancer case. [SEP] Kiesel Boucher Larson // 2007. The importance of the settlement also paved way for the release of thousands of pages of sealed historical records, which the Catholic Church had been suppressing since the crimes against all of the molested victims took place. Kiesel Law LLP represents those who were implanted with Wright Medical Hips which were found by a federal jury to be defectively designed. Kiesel Law LLP represents those who were harmed by Talc use. Kiesel Boucher Larson Kiesel Law LLP is a consumer litigation firm. In 2015, Kiesel Law LLP was selected as one of the 100 top law firms in California.
Mozambique to start cholera vaccinations next week after cyclone. [SEP] Tropical Storm Delfina // 19 due to flooding. After Delfina moved through Mozambique, the local Red Cross chapter provided shelter, water, and relief items to the affected residents. Residual flooding in northern Mozambique, compounded with lack of drinking water, caused a cholera outbreak that affected at least 400 people. By January 27, 12 people had died from the disease. Flooding also caused a malaria outbreak that killed 45 people in the country. Government officials deployed food to the affected areas by airplane and by road, after workers repaired damaged bridges. Residents in Mozambique gradually recovered from storm damage in the weeks after it struck.
Mozambique to start cholera vaccinations next week after cyclone. [SEP] Cyclone Favio // the situation aerially. The disaster management minister of South Africa flew into Mozambique to survey the damage. Due to the concern for potential disease epidemics including those of malaria and cholera, health officials raised public awareness through theaters and radio. A joint coalition of the United States Agency for International Development and the Office of Foreign Disaster Assistance provided $626,500, enabling transportation of 50,000 mosquito nets to the devastated area. Oxfam International distributed of clean water per day for 15,000 displaced people in the Caia and Marromeu districts and housed 8,000 residents in Chupanga, where they also distributed 5,500 bars
Mozambique to start cholera vaccinations next week after cyclone. [SEP] Médecins Sans Frontières // provided during MSF missions. Diseases such as diphtheria, measles, meningitis, tetanus, pertussis, yellow fever, polio, and cholera, all of which are uncommon in developed countries, may be prevented with vaccination. Some of these diseases, such as cholera and measles, spread rapidly in large populations living in close proximity, such as in a refugee camp, and people must be immunised by the hundreds or thousands in a short period of time. For example, in Beira, Mozambique in 2004, an experimental cholera vaccine was received twice by approximately 50,000 residents in about one month. An equally important part of the medical care
Mozambique to start cholera vaccinations next week after cyclone. [SEP] 2008 Zimbabwean cholera outbreak // medicines, and the resources of even internationally funded emergency clinics were stretched. The ongoing political and economic crisis contributed to the emigration of doctors and people with medical knowledge. Some victims were travelling to Botswana and other neighbouring countries for treatment. The 2008 outbreak began in Chitungwiza on 20 August 2008. In September, cases spread to the urban areas of Makonde and Chinhoyi. By the end of October, cases had spread to 3 provinces: Mashonaland West, Mashonaland East, and Harare city. In the first two weeks of November, the epidemic rapidly spread across Zimbabwe, appearing in a total of 9
Mozambique to start cholera vaccinations next week after cyclone. [SEP] 2008 Zimbabwean cholera outbreak // were detected in the Limpopo River on 3 December 2008. By 12 December 2008, 11 deaths and 859 infections had been recorded in South Africa, rising to 2,100 cases and 15 deaths by 14 January 2009, and to 12,000 cases and 59 deaths by 10 March. The South African government set up medical facilities and drinking water supplies at the Beitbridge border post and deployed the National Outbreak Response Team and additional medical personnel to Musina. Anthony Turton, a political scientist and Unit Fellow with the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) in South Africa, who had earlier warned
Mozambique to start cholera vaccinations next week after cyclone. [SEP] Cyclone Hudah // cyclones which impacted the country within the previous four months. The Instituto Nacional de Gestão de Calamidades (INGC) warned residents in potentially affected areas to take precautionary measures and secure fishing boats. The South African National Defense Force (SANDF) maintained 50 soldiers and other military personnel and a number of aircraft to monitor the ongoing floods in Mozambique and potential impacts from Hudah. An Australian contingency held operations for a hospital and water purification plant in Chibuto to assist potentially affected populations. Multiple other relief organizations began to supply Mozambique with relief supplies due to the threat of the impending
Mozambique to start cholera vaccinations next week after cyclone. [SEP] Cyclone Leon–Eline // from the flooded town of Chokwe walked to receive shelter in Macie. Following the storm, the residual floodwaters contributed to outbreaks of malaria and cholera, with malaria infections at four times the usual rate killing at least 11 people. Areas in southern Mozambique also lost access to clean water, furthering dehydration and illnesses. In addition, the United Nations Mine Action Service expressed concern that the floods shifted the locations of landmines left over from the nation's civil war. Later, the remnants of Cyclone Gloria halted relief work due to heavy rainfall. Soon after the storm struck, CARE operated airlifts of
Mozambique to start cholera vaccinations next week after cyclone. [SEP] Zimbabwe // cholera epidemic. By December 2008 more than 10,000 people had been infected in all but one of Zimbabwe's provinces and the outbreak had spread to Botswana, Mozambique, South Africa and Zambia. On 4 December 2008 the Zimbabwe government declared the outbreak to be a national emergency and asked for international aid. By 9 March 2009 The World Health Organization (WHO) estimated that 4,011 people had succumbed to the waterborne disease since the outbreak began in August 2008, and the total number of cases recorded had reached 89,018. In Harare, the city council offered free graves to cholera victims. There had
Mozambique to start cholera vaccinations next week after cyclone. [SEP] 2008 Zimbabwean cholera outbreak // of the risk of cholera in South Africa and wrote a report that recommended that the South African government increase its spending on water treatments lest a cholera outbreak occur in the country, was suspended for having made "inappropriate statements to the media". On 10 December 2008, the Limpopo Provincial Government declared Vhembe District Municipality, which borders Zimbabwe at Beitbridge, Matabeleland South province, a disaster area. On a 28 January 2009 visit to Musina with high-ranking government and ruling party officials, Health Minister Barbara Hogan said The spread of cholera to Zimbabwe's other neighbouring countries was initially slower than in
Mozambique to start cholera vaccinations next week after cyclone. [SEP] 2008 Zimbabwean cholera outbreak // distributed 360,000 litres of water per day in Harare, as well as handing out soap and buckets. Notwithstanding the contributions received, UNICEF indicated on 9 December 2008 that US$17,500,000 was needed to respond properly to the outbreak. As of 15 December, following agreement with the Zimbabwe government, the World Health Organization was procuring medical supplies to roll out a response plan to run health centres. The 2008 cholera outbreak spread to districts in Botswana, Mozambique, South Africa and Zambia bordering Zimbabwe. Cholera spread to the Zimbabwean migrant worker community in Limpopo and Mpumalanga provinces of South Africa and cholera bacteria
No vaping ban U-turn, says Indian official, as protests fizzle. [SEP] Ismail Sabri Yaakob // Malaysian Health Ministry. He has gone further in hoping that the unregulated industry can expand globally. Many prominent doctors and physicians have publicly chided Ismail Sabri's support for the industry, including the Sultan of Johor Ibrahim Ismail who publicly decreed that all vape outlets must be shutdown by 1 January 2016. On 13 April 2018, Ismail Sabri again provoked a controversy when he said "Every vote for the DAP is akin to giving power to the Pakatan Harapan (PH) pact to eliminate the purported Malay “special rights” and the “uniqueness” of Islam" as been reported by the Malay language-newspaper "Utusan
No vaping ban U-turn, says Indian official, as protests fizzle. [SEP] Smoking in India // of Maharashtra. Other regions that have bans are: Import of e-cigarettes and e-liquid is permitted in India, but involves varying permissions. While four states have limitation on distribution of e-cigarettes, there is no restriction in any of the remaining Indian states. Currently, this product is not a drug as per the Drugs & Cosmetics Act, 1940, and neither does it come under the jurisdiction of the tobacco department as it does not contain tobacco. The market largely consists of small retailers and importers, but with a few organized players such as ITC with their brand EON, Godfrey Philips with the
No vaping ban U-turn, says Indian official, as protests fizzle. [SEP] Ibrahim Ismail of Johor // not without certain controversy, as this has caused disruptions, particularly for private businesses dealing with Singapore. The private sector nevertheless continues to rest on Saturdays and Sundays. In August 2015, Sultan Ibrahim decreed that the name of Kulaijaya district be reverted to its former name of "Kulai". He also decreed that Nusajaya be renamed to "Iskandar Puteri", as well as renaming Ledang District to Tangkak District. Sultan Ibrahim issued a decree banning vape in Johor effective 1 January 2016. The purposes of the ban is for the sake of the health of the Johor state residents. Kelantan and Terengganu followed
No vaping ban U-turn, says Indian official, as protests fizzle. [SEP] Regulation of electronic cigarettes // in the other states vary. The states of Karnataka, Kerala, Punjab, Jammu and Kashmir, Mizoram and Maharashtra have banned e-cigarettes under the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940, and Food Safety & Standards (Prohibition and Restriction on Sales) Regulation, 2011. In August 2018, the Central Government had asked the states to ban all types of Electronic Nicotine Delivery Systems. Regulation of electronic cigarettes Regulation of electronic cigarettes varies across countries and states, ranging from no regulation to banning them entirely. Others have introduced strict restrictions and some have licensed devices as medicines such as in the UK. , around two thirds
No vaping ban U-turn, says Indian official, as protests fizzle. [SEP] Smoking in India // The Indian government felt that films were glamorizing cigarettes, and with nearly 15 million people going to see Bollywood films on a daily basis, then Health Minister Anubumani Ramadoss claimed that the ban would "protect the lives of millions of people who could become addicted to smoking under the influence of movies." Under the smoking ban, smoking scenes in any movie was prohibited, including any old or historical movies where, some argued, smoking was necessary to make the depiction accurate. If producers wished to show a character smoking, the scene would have to be accompanied by a note saying that
No vaping ban U-turn, says Indian official, as protests fizzle. [SEP] Smoking ban // Division Bench of the Kerala High Court in India banned smoking in public places by declaring public smoking as illegal (the first time in the world), unconstitutional, and violative of Article 21 of the constitution. The bench headed by Dr. Justice K. Narayana Kurup, held that tobacco smoking in public places (in the form of cigarettes, cigars, beedies or otherwise) falls within the mischief of the penal provisions relating to public nuisance as contained in the Indian Penal Code and within the definition of air pollution as contained in the statutes dealing with protection and preservation of environment, in particular,
No vaping ban U-turn, says Indian official, as protests fizzle. [SEP] Smoking ban // Kerala High Court in India banned smoking in public places by declaring "public smoking as illegal first time in the history of whole world, unconstitutional and violative of Article 21 of the Constitution." The Bench, headed by Dr. Justice K. Narayana Kurup, held that "tobacco smoking" in public places (in the form of cigarettes, cigars, beedies or otherwise) "falls within the mischief of the penal provisions relating to public nuisance as contained in the Indian Penal Code and also the definition of air pollution as contained in the statutes dealing with the protection and preservation of the environment, in particular,
No vaping ban U-turn, says Indian official, as protests fizzle. [SEP] Anna Hazare // prohibition would come into force in a village if 25% of the women in the village demanded it. In 2009 the state government amended the Bombay Prohibition Act, 1949 to reflect this. It was decided to ban the sale of tobacco, cigarettes, and beedies (an unfiltered cigarette where the tobacco is rolled in tendu also known as Diospyros melanoxylon leaves instead of paper) in the village. To implement this resolution, the youth group performed a unique "Holi" ceremony twenty two years ago. The festival of Holi is celebrated as a symbolic burning of evil. The youth group brought all the
No vaping ban U-turn, says Indian official, as protests fizzle. [SEP] Smoking in Bollywood // to 53% in 2002. Proposed by the Ministry of Health in May 2005, a smoking ban that prohibited films and television shows from displaying actors or actresses smoking went into effect on 2 October 2005. The Indian government felt that films were glamorising cigarettes, and with nearly 15 million people going to see Bollywood films on a daily basis, Health Minister Anubumani Ramadoss claimed that the ban would "protect the lives of millions of people who could become addicted to smoking under the influence of movies." Under the smoking ban, smoking scenes in any movie was prohibited, including any old
No vaping ban U-turn, says Indian official, as protests fizzle. [SEP] Smoking in India // brands Zest and Verge, and Vape Stop which is an aggregator of international brands. Smoking in India Smoking in India has been known since at least 2000 BC when cannabis was smoked and is first mentioned in the "Atharvaveda", which dates back a few hundred years BC. Fumigation ("dhupa") and fire offerings ("homa") are prescribed in the Ayurveda for medical purposes and have been practiced for at least 3,000 years while smoking, "dhumrapana" (धूम्रपान) (literally "drinking smoke"), has been practiced for at least 2,000 years. Tobacco was introduced to India in the 17th century. It later merged with existing practices
Technology helps China brace for population growth. [SEP] Human overpopulation // forecast that Chinese cities will contain 800 million people by 2020. From a historical perspective, technological revolutions have coincided with population expansion. There have been three major technological revolutions – the tool-making revolution, the agricultural revolution, and the industrial revolution – all of which allowed humans more access to food, resulting in subsequent population explosions. For example, the use of tools, such as bow and arrow, allowed primitive hunters greater access to more high energy foods (e.g. animal meat). Similarly, the transition to farming about 10,000 years ago greatly increased the overall food supply, which was used to support more
Technology helps China brace for population growth. [SEP] Great Divergence // a parliament. Greater economic liberty, fostered by the interaction of fragmentation and reform, unleashed faster and more inter-connected urban growth. Justin Yifu Lin argued that China's large population size proved beneficial in technological advancements prior to the 14th century, but that the large population size was not an important factor in the kind of technological advancements that resulted in the Industrial Revolution. Early technological advancements depended on "learning by doing" (where population size was an important factor, as advances could spread over a large political unit), whereas the Industrial Revolution was the result of experimentation and theory (where population size
Technology helps China brace for population growth. [SEP] Human population planning // China's planned birth policy, (work) unit supervisors monitored the fertility of married women and may decide whose turn it is to have a baby. The Chinese government introduced the policy in 1978 to alleviate the social and environmental problems of China. According to government officials, the policy has helped prevent 400 million births. The success of the policy has been questioned, and reduction in fertility has also been attributed to the modernization of China. The policy is controversial both within and outside of China because of its manner of implementation and because of concerns about negative economic and social consequences
Technology helps China brace for population growth. [SEP] Science and technology in China // deep sea station; quantum communication and quantum computers; brain sciences and brain research. The project also encompasses nine other sub-projects, including an innovative seed industry, smart grid, space-terrestrial information network, intelligent manufacturing and robots. There is a lack of arable land and water which means only new technology can increase the output of Chinese agriculture. Former President Jiang Zemin's has therefore called for a "new revolution in agricultural science and technology." Restrictions and regulations concerning genetically modified foods have been introduced or proposed after widespread public concern. China has been buying millions of foreign breeder animal as well as large
Technology helps China brace for population growth. [SEP] Joseph Needham // experiment-based innovation processes have a higher likelihood of producing better technology as human capital grows. China had about twice the population of Europe until the 13th century and so had a higher probability of creating new technologies. After the 14th century, China's population grew exponentially, but progress in innovation saw diminishing returns. Europe had a smaller population but began to integrate science and technology that arose from the scientific revolution in the 17th century. This scientific revolution gave Europe a comparative advantage in developing technology in modern times. Lin blamed the institutions in China for preventing the adoption of the
Technology helps China brace for population growth. [SEP] Zero population growth // mostly the result of China's economic growth and increasing living standards which led to the decline. However, many demographers also credit China's family planning policy, which was formulated in the early 1970s, encourages late marriages, late childbearing, and the use of contraceptives, and since 1980 has limited most urban couples to one child and most rural couples to two children. According to government projections, the work-age population will then drop to 870 million. It was said, in 2009, that the Chinese government was hoping to see zero population growth in the future but, in November 2013, a relaxation of the
Technology helps China brace for population growth. [SEP] Science and technology in China // government aims to make China self-sufficient regarding petrochemicals and plastics with the exception of the raw feedstock of oil and gas. The Chinese industry is increasing R&D in order to create higher value products using more advanced technology. Another development China is developing its deep sea exploration capabilities, such as by the Jiaolong submersible, with an eye to future applications such as deep sea mining. In 2009 China manufactured 48.3% of the world's televisions, 49.9% of mobile phones, 60.9% of personal computers and 75% of LCD monitors. Indigenously made electronic components have become an important source of recent growth. On
Technology helps China brace for population growth. [SEP] Zero population growth // where they explain the theory and answer audience questions. Albert Bartlett, an emeritus professor of physics at University of Colorado at Boulder in his lifetime, suggested that the population have following choices to be at ZPG: Similarly, Jason Brent, another demographic expert, argues that there are three ways to achieve zero population growth. His argument is as follows: China is the largest country by population in the world, being home to some 1.4 billion people. China is expected to witness a zero population growth rate by 2030. China's population growth has slowed since the beginning of this century. This was
Technology helps China brace for population growth. [SEP] Science and technology in China // network and high fuel efficiency requirements for vehicles. China is rapidly expanding its wastewater treatment systems and power plant emission reduction systems. Due to the Chinese water crisis, as well as for future exports, China is building up its desalination technological abilities and plans to create an indigenous industry. Some cities have introduced extensive water conservation and recycling programmes and technologies. Monitor Group in a 2010 report predicted that China within a decade will become the world leader in discovery and innovation in life sciences. Some research is seen as less controversial in China than elsewhere such as research regarding
Technology helps China brace for population growth. [SEP] Andrey Korotayev // order positive feedback between the demographic growth and technological development that can be spelled out as follows: technological growth – increase in the carrying capacity of land for people – demographic growth – more people – more potential inventors – acceleration of technological growth – accelerating growth of the carrying capacity – the faster population growth – accelerating growth of the number of potential inventors – faster technological growth – hence, the faster growth of the Earth's carrying capacity for people, and so on. He has also shown that the world urban population growth curve has also up till recently
The University of Louisville Hospital confirmed the deaths of 16 people from a rare strain of the "HR3211 virus. [SEP] Crimean–Congo hemorrhagic fever // Iran, resulting in 8 fatalities. In October 2012, a British man died from the disease at the Royal Free Hospital in London. He had earlier been admitted to Gartnavel General Hospital in Glasgow, after returning on a flight from Kabul in Afghanistan. In July 2013, seven persons died due to CCHF in Kariyana village in Babra taluka, Amreli district, Gujarat, India. In August 2013, a farmer from Agago, Uganda was treated at Kalongo Hospital for a confirmed CCHF infection. The deaths of three other individuals in the northern region were suspected to have been caused by the virus. Another unrelated
The University of Louisville Hospital confirmed the deaths of 16 people from a rare strain of the "HR3211 virus. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // of unknown origin. Of the six, two died. All the cases were reported to the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC). After the September identification of a novel CoV strain, a retroactive analysis of the hospital workers was performed. Epidemiologists discovered the Jordan cases. Using stored laboratory samples for all six, it was found that samples from the two patients who had died tested positive for nCoV. On 24 April 2014, a 25-year-old male was found positive for the coronavirus. He had history of exposure to camels and had consumed camel milk. The Ministry of Health and Medical
The University of Louisville Hospital confirmed the deaths of 16 people from a rare strain of the "HR3211 virus. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // and from that family at least one additional person presented similar symptoms but tested negative for the novel coronavirus. On 21 February 2013, WHO stated that there had been 13 laboratory-confirmed cases, 6 cases (4 fatal) from Saudi Arabia, 2 cases (both fatal) from Jordan, 2 cases from Qatar, and 3 from the UK. In March 2013, the Saudi Arabia Ministry of Health reported the death of a 39-year-old man, the 15th case and 9th death reported to WHO. On 2 May 2013, the Saudi Ministry of Health announced five people died and two other people were in critical condition
The University of Louisville Hospital confirmed the deaths of 16 people from a rare strain of the "HR3211 virus. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // in Manchester in an elderly man who had recently visited the Middle East and Pakistan; it was the 10th case globally. The man's son, whom he visited in the hospital in Birmingham, was immuno-suppressed because of a brain tumour, and contracted the virus, providing the first clear evidence for person-to-person transmission. He died on 19 February 2013. The second patient was a 49-year-old Qatari man who had visited Saudi Arabia before falling ill. He was flown privately by air ambulance from Doha to London on 11 September where he was admitted to St Mary's Hospital and later was transferred to
The University of Louisville Hospital confirmed the deaths of 16 people from a rare strain of the "HR3211 virus. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // Saudi Arabia. In the latest cluster of infections, 15 cases had been confirmed, and nine of those patients had died. Ten of the 22 people who died and 22 of 44 cases reported were in Saudi Arabia. An unconfirmed case in another Saudi citizen, for which no clinical information was available, was also reported around this time. On 22 September 2012, the Saudi Ministry of Health (MOH) announced that the two cases involving Saudi citizens, caused by what they termed a "rare pattern of coronavirus," had both proven fatal. Two of the Saudi Arabia cases were from the same family
The University of Louisville Hospital confirmed the deaths of 16 people from a rare strain of the "HR3211 virus. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // deaths." On 31 October 2013, the WHO announced that three patients in Saudi Arabia died of MERS. The patients were one woman and two men and "all had underlying medical conditions but all reported having had no contact with animals before falling ill". Early of 23 April 2014, 11 new cases including a first case for Mecca were reported by the Health Ministry. An additional 13 cases were reported on the same day. With the additional reported cases, there are now a total of 285 cases with 83 deaths in the Kingdom. A hospital-related outbreak in Riyadh brought the total
The University of Louisville Hospital confirmed the deaths of 16 people from a rare strain of the "HR3211 virus. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // coronavirus researcher at the Erasmus Medical Center (EMC) in Rotterdam, The Netherlands. The second laboratory-proven case was in London, confirmed by the UK Health Protection Agency (HPA). The HPA named the virus the London1_novel CoV 2012. On 8 November 2012, in an article published in the New England Journal of Medicine, Dr. Zaki and co-authors from the Erasmus Medical Center published more details, including a scientific name, Human Coronavirus-Erasmus Medical Center (HCoV-EMC), which was then used in scientific literature. In the article, they noted four respiratory human coronaviruses (HCoV) known to be endemic: 229E, OC43, NL63, and HKU1. In May
The University of Louisville Hospital confirmed the deaths of 16 people from a rare strain of the "HR3211 virus. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // St Thomas's Hospital. As a result of Dr Zaki's post on Pro-MED, the novel coronavirus was quickly identified. He was treated for respiratory disease and, like the first patient in Saudi Arabia, died of renal failure in October 2012. Another patient who had been in Guys and St Thomas hospital in the UK since September 2012 after visiting the Middle East died on 28 June 2013. A spokesperson for the hospital stated that "Guys and St Thomas can confirm that the patient with severe respiratory illness due to novel coronavirus (MERS-COV) sadly died on Friday 28 June, after his condition
The University of Louisville Hospital confirmed the deaths of 16 people from a rare strain of the "HR3211 virus. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // was referred to the RITM last 4 July 2015. Another person, who was also showing symptoms, was placed in isolation after he had close contact with the said patient; eight others, who also had contacted with the patient, were identified. DOH is in the process of tracking all the people whom the patient had contacted with. The first known case of a previously unknown coronavirus was identified in a 60-year-old Saudi Arabian man with acute pneumonia, who died of renal failure in June 2012. As of 12 May 2013, two more deaths have been reported in the al-Ahsa region of
The University of Louisville Hospital confirmed the deaths of 16 people from a rare strain of the "HR3211 virus. [SEP] Enterovirus 71 // HFMD patients from as early on as 1981. Other studies conducted in early 1999 showed that half the adult population of Taiwan had antibodies against the enterovirus 71 prior to the 1998 outbreak meaning the population of children were more susceptible to the virus. It is possible that prior to the outbreak in 1998 there were severe and fatal cases that went unrecognised as EV71 cases in children who died of unexplained illnesses and studies are still ongoing. Vietnam recorded 63,780 cases of hand, foot and mouth disease in the first seven months of 2012. According to Tran Minh Dien,
As the United States government tried to negotiate a response to a novel coronavirus strain, cost issues temporarily stalled passing a bill approving roughly $8 billion in emergency funding. [SEP] Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness Reauthorization Act of 2013 // health system to address public health and medical emergencies. Based on information provided by the HHS and the VA, the CBO estimates that implementing the act would cost about $11 billion over the 2014-2018 period, assuming the appropriation of the authorized amounts. The Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2012, included funding totaling about $2 billion in fiscal year 2012 for activities similar to those that would be authorized by H.R. 307. The CBO assumes that amounts appropriated through the Continuing Appropriations Resolution, 2013, for those activities are similar to 2012 levels. H.R. 307 also changes the terms for Project Bioshield contracts, which
As the United States government tried to negotiate a response to a novel coronavirus strain, cost issues temporarily stalled passing a bill approving roughly $8 billion in emergency funding. [SEP] Sylvia Mathews Burwell // Development Authority splitting $152million for the domestic effort. In response to Congressional complaints that the money was not being spent fast enough, Burwell informed Congress that without further funding the CDC's funding to fight Zika would be depleted by September 30, 2016. After Burwell moved funding from other HHS programs, Congress finally appropriated $1.1billion to fight the spread of Zika in the United States. By the end of September 2016, the United States reported 23,000 cases in the territory of Puerto Rico, 3,000 cases in the states, and 21babies born in the United States with microcephaly testing positive for Zika.
As the United States government tried to negotiate a response to a novel coronavirus strain, cost issues temporarily stalled passing a bill approving roughly $8 billion in emergency funding. [SEP] 2015–16 Zika virus epidemic // real-time social media updates are desirable methods for communication during the emergence of infectious diseases. However, misinformation is common and data control in the cyber world has become a growing necessity. Many people criticized the lack of governmental response from the U.S. Government in the wake of the crisis. The United States was criticized for a lack of preparedness in terms of an ability to contain a virus outbreak in the United States. The Obama Administration requested an emergency supplemental appropriation of $1.86 billion for both domestic and international response to the crisis. In response to this request, Congress redirected
As the United States government tried to negotiate a response to a novel coronavirus strain, cost issues temporarily stalled passing a bill approving roughly $8 billion in emergency funding. [SEP] Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness Reauthorization Act of 2013 // – 2018, which is consistent with the original appropriation of $5.6 billion over FY 2004 – 2013. The new law prohibits SRF funds from being used for anything other than medical countermeasures procurement, research and development. It requires the Secretary of Health and Human Services to provide a report to Congress when funds available in the SRF go below $1.5 billion. It would also allow the use of up to 50 percent of funds available in the SRF for advanced research and development of medical countermeasures at the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority (BARDA). Section 402 reauthorizes BARDA, which
As the United States government tried to negotiate a response to a novel coronavirus strain, cost issues temporarily stalled passing a bill approving roughly $8 billion in emergency funding. [SEP] Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness Reauthorization Act of 2013 // Secretary of Health and Human Services to enter into contracts and other agreements that are in the government's best interest in meeting identified security countermeasure needs, including reimbursement of the cost of advanced research and development as a reasonable, allowable, and allocable direct cost of the contract involved. It requires that a contract to procure security countermeasures include a clear statement of defined government purpose limited to uses related to a security countermeasure. Section 401 would also reauthorize the Project BioShield Special Reserve Fund (SRF), originally established in 2004. It would reauthorize the SRF at $2.8 billion for FY 2014
As the United States government tried to negotiate a response to a novel coronavirus strain, cost issues temporarily stalled passing a bill approving roughly $8 billion in emergency funding. [SEP] Influenza pandemic // President Bush unveiled the National Strategy To Safeguard Against The Danger of Pandemic Influenza. He also submitted a request to Congress for $7.1 billion to begin implementing the plan. The request includes $251 million to detect and contain outbreaks before they spread around the world; $2.8 billion to accelerate development of cell-culture technology; $800 million for development of new treatments and vaccines; $1.519 billion for the Departments of Health and Human Services (HHS) and Defense to purchase influenza vaccines; $1.029 billion to stockpile antiviral medications; and $644 million to ensure that all levels of government are prepared to respond to
As the United States government tried to negotiate a response to a novel coronavirus strain, cost issues temporarily stalled passing a bill approving roughly $8 billion in emergency funding. [SEP] 2015–16 Zika virus epidemic // $589 million from funds previously dedicated to Ebola instead of allocating new funds. Another criticism regarding Zika funding had to do with the fact that Congress members still took vacation in July 2016 before allocating any of the funds requested in February 2016. In August 2016, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reported that they had spent $194 million of the initial $222 million allocation to fight Zika virus. Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases said that the NIAID was running out of funds, which would substantially slow down the development of vaccines.
As the United States government tried to negotiate a response to a novel coronavirus strain, cost issues temporarily stalled passing a bill approving roughly $8 billion in emergency funding. [SEP] Continuing Appropriations Resolution, 2015 // to existing law and funding levels. "This summary is based largely on the summary provided by the Congressional Budget Office, a public domain source." This resolution would provide funding through December 11, 2014, except for $88 million to respond to the Ebola virus, which would be available until September 30, 2015 (sections 136 and 137). In addition, section 147 would continue the authorization for the Export-Import Bank of the United States through June 30, 2015. All other amounts are shown on an annualized basis. These amounts are subject to discretionary spending limits in the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
As the United States government tried to negotiate a response to a novel coronavirus strain, cost issues temporarily stalled passing a bill approving roughly $8 billion in emergency funding. [SEP] Biodefense and Pandemic Vaccine and Drug Development Act of 2005 // responsibility for developing bioterrorism countermeasures out of the Department of Homeland Security and into the new BARDA agency within the Department of Health and Human Services. The proposed new agency would improve on Project BioShield, a barely two-year-old program also meant to encourage production of vaccines and drugs. BARDA would receive a first-year budget of $1 billion. Other key aspects of the proposed legislation include: Much of the support for the bill comes from Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America (PhRMA) and its members. In the 2002 election cycle, PhRMA contributed $3,505,052 to politicians, with 95% going to Republicans. The
As the United States government tried to negotiate a response to a novel coronavirus strain, cost issues temporarily stalled passing a bill approving roughly $8 billion in emergency funding. [SEP] 2015–16 Zika virus epidemic // Although the government faced criticism for not responding strongly enough to the Zika outbreak, the government eventually provided funding of $1.1 billion for Zika in October 2016. It took congress nearly seven months to agree to this allocation, which left many prevention and education projects without funding for a substantial amount of time. Senate Democrats urged Republicans to approve the full amount of funding more quickly rather than waiting for major transmission of Zika virus to begin in the United States. In 2017, public health experts are still concerned about the failure of the Zika response in the United States.
Pfizer pulls Lipitor ads with heart expert Jarvik. [SEP] Robert Jarvik // Jarvik, along with DeVries, briefed the world’s media on Clark’s condition. The next several implantations of the Jarvik-7 heart were conducted by Humana, a large health care insurance company. The second patient, William J. Schroeder, survived 620 days. In 2006, Jarvik began appearing in television commercials for Pfizer's cholesterol medication Lipitor. Two members of Congress, as part of their campaign against celebrity endorsements, began an investigation as to whether his television advertisements constitute medical advice given without a license to practice medicine. One advert depicted Jarvik rowing, but due to insurance and other considerations, he did not row himself, and
Pfizer pulls Lipitor ads with heart expert Jarvik. [SEP] Robert Jarvik // a body double was used. Later, Jarvik said that he had not taken Lipitor until becoming a spokesman for the company. On February 25, 2008, Pfizer announced that it would discontinue its ads with Jarvik. Jarvik is married to "Parade" magazine columnist Marilyn vos Savant since August 23, 1987. Contrary to some sources, Jarvik is not a Latter-day Saint. Robert Jarvik Robert Koffler Jarvik, M.D. (born May 11, 1946) is an American scientist, researcher, and entrepreneur known for his role in developing the Jarvik-7 artificial heart. Robert Jarvik was born in Midland, Michigan, to Norman Eugene Jarvik and Edythe Koffler
Pfizer pulls Lipitor ads with heart expert Jarvik. [SEP] Atorvastatin // into a co-marketing agreement with Pfizer to sell Lipitor, and in 2000 Pfizer acquired Warner-Lambert for $90.2billion. Lipitor was on the market by 1996. By 2003 Lipitor had become the best selling pharmaceutical in the United States. From 1996 to 2012 under the trade name Lipitor, atorvastatin became the world's best-selling medication of all time, with more than $125billion in sales over approximately 14.5years. Lipitor alone "provided up to a quarter of Pfizer Inc.'s annual revenue for years." Pfizer's patent on atorvastatin expired in November 2011. Atorvastatin calcium tablets are marketed by Pfizer under the trade name Lipitor for oral
Pfizer pulls Lipitor ads with heart expert Jarvik. [SEP] Pfizer // Angiosyn for $527 million. On June 26, 2006, Pfizer announced it would sell its Consumer Healthcare unit (manufacturer of Listerine, Nicorette, Visine, Sudafed and Neosporin) to Johnson & Johnson for $16.6 billion. Development of torcetrapib, a drug that increases production of HDL, or "good cholesterol", which reduces LDL thought to be correlated to heart disease, was cancelled in December 2006. During a Phase III clinical trial involving 15,000 patients, more deaths occurred in the group that took the medicine than expected, and a sixty percent increase in mortality was seen among patients taking the combination of torcetrapib and Lipitor versus
Pfizer pulls Lipitor ads with heart expert Jarvik. [SEP] Robert Jarvik // Robert Jarvik Robert Koffler Jarvik, M.D. (born May 11, 1946) is an American scientist, researcher, and entrepreneur known for his role in developing the Jarvik-7 artificial heart. Robert Jarvik was born in Midland, Michigan, to Norman Eugene Jarvik and Edythe Koffler Jarvik, and raised in Stamford, Connecticut. He is the nephew of Murray Jarvik, a pharmacologist who was the co-inventor of the nicotine patch. Jarvik is a graduate of Syracuse University. He earned a master's degree in medical engineering from New York University. After being admitted to the University of Utah School of Medicine, Jarvik completed two years of study,
Pfizer pulls Lipitor ads with heart expert Jarvik. [SEP] Pfizer // company develops and produces medicines and vaccines for a wide range of medical disciplines, including immunology, oncology, cardiology, endocrinology, and neurology. Its products include the blockbuster drug Lipitor (atorvastatin), used to lower LDL blood cholesterol; Lyrica (pregabalin) for neuropathic pain and fibromyalgia; Diflucan (fluconazole), an oral antifungal medication; Zithromax (azithromycin), an antibiotic; Viagra (sildenafil) for erectile dysfunction; and Celebrex (also Celebra, celecoxib), an anti-inflammatory drug. In 2016, Pfizer Inc. was expected to merge with Allergan, Plc to create the Ireland-based "Pfizer plc" in a deal that would have been worth $160 billion. The merger was called off in April 2016,
Pfizer pulls Lipitor ads with heart expert Jarvik. [SEP] Atorvastatin // administration. Tablets are white, elliptical, and film-coated. Pfizer also packages the medication in combination with other medications, such as with amlodipine (brand name Caduet). Pfizer recommends that patients do not break tablets in half to take half-doses, even when this is recommended by their doctors. Pfizer's US patent on Lipitor expired on 30 November 2011. Initially, generic atorvastatin was manufactured only by Watson Pharmaceuticals and India's Ranbaxy Laboratories. Prices for the generic version did not drop to the level of other generics—$10 or less for a month's supply—until other manufacturers began to supply the medication in May 2012. In other
Pfizer pulls Lipitor ads with heart expert Jarvik. [SEP] Dr. Reddy's Laboratories // Pfizer as Lipitor, an anti-cholesterol medication. Reddy's was already linked to UK pharmaceuticals multinational Glaxo Smithkline. Dr. Reddy's originally launched in 1984 producing active pharmaceutical ingredients. In 1986, Reddy's started operations on branded formulations. Within a year Reddy's had launched Norilet, the company's first recognized brand in India. Soon, Dr. Reddy's obtained another success with Omez, its branded omeprazole – ulcer and reflux oesophagitis medication – launched at half the price of other brands on the Indian market at that time. This is now branched in hyderabad Within a year, Reddy's became the first Indian company to export the active
Pfizer pulls Lipitor ads with heart expert Jarvik. [SEP] Ian Read // a member of the Pfizer Leadership Team. On 5 December 2010, When Read "took over from Jeffrey Kindler as Pfizer’s CEO, the drug firm–the world’s largest–was facing the impending patent expiration of Lipitor, the bestselling drug ever made, and the utter failure of one of the most lavishly funded research laboratories on the planet to develop much of anything." Read is also a director of Kimberly-Clark. Read is now an American citizen. By October 2015 during the Drug Pricing Firestorm, Forbes journalist Matthew Herper, wrote how "Read, with his calculating mind, must get through the public’s rage over six-figure price
Pfizer pulls Lipitor ads with heart expert Jarvik. [SEP] Pfizer // Lipitor alone. Lipitor alone was not implicated in the results, but Pfizer lost nearly $1 billion developing the failed drug and the market value of the company plummeted afterwards. The company also announced it would acquire Powermed and Rivax. In September 2009, Pfizer pleaded guilty to the illegal marketing of the arthritis drug Bextra for uses unapproved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), and agreed to a $2.3 billion settlement, the largest health care fraud settlement at that time. A July 2010 article in "BusinessWeek" reported that Pfizer was seeing more success in its battle against makers of
The web site Genpets.com sells mass-produced, bioengineered pets. [SEP] Genpet // Genpet Genpets are a mixed media installation art piece by artist Adam Brandejs. It is considered a "hoax of exposure". The project has been shown in multiple galleries in Canada and Europe and has garnered some attention in the mass media. The creations were sculpted, automated creatures made of latex and plastic, and housed robotic circuitry to simulate slow respiration. They looked like small, baldskinned and ugly humanoids, and were intended to be displayed as living, but dormant, bioengineered creatures for purchase as pets. The fabricated packaging indicated a purchaser had a choice of colors, four different personalities and levels
The web site Genpets.com sells mass-produced, bioengineered pets. [SEP] Genpet // actual 19 genpet units that display at art galleries. Genpets have been displayed at multiple Fine Art galleries and museum displays in both North America and Europe. Genpet Genpets are a mixed media installation art piece by artist Adam Brandejs. It is considered a "hoax of exposure". The project has been shown in multiple galleries in Canada and Europe and has garnered some attention in the mass media. The creations were sculpted, automated creatures made of latex and plastic, and housed robotic circuitry to simulate slow respiration. They looked like small, baldskinned and ugly humanoids, and were intended to be
The web site Genpets.com sells mass-produced, bioengineered pets. [SEP] EntirelyPets // healthypets.com and entirelypets.com domains are active, although entirelypets.com is the main site. The company also owns and operates a number of smaller pet ecommerce sites. EntirelyPets has been recognized for offering pet medications and pet supplies for lower prices than traditional retailers and will match prices with any US based retailer selling U.S. Environmental Protection Agency/Food and Drug Administration approved pet products. In February 2015, the company opened a second location in Newark, California, which includes offices, manufacturing, and warehousing. EntirelyPets EntirelyPets is a privately held online pet supplies company founded in 1999. Based in Union City, California, EntirelyPets sells
The web site Genpets.com sells mass-produced, bioengineered pets. [SEP] Missyplicity // In 2009, Lou Hawthorne the CEO of BioArts announced he was withdrawing from the program due to the small market, unethical competition, weak intellectual property protection, unscalable bioethics and unpredictable results. However Sooam Biotech continued developing proprietary techniques based on a licence from ViaGen's subsidiary Start Licensing (which owns the original Dolly patent) and continued creating cloned dogs for owners whose dogs had died, charging $100,000 a time. Sooam Biotech was reported to have cloned 700 dogs by 2015, a cloning success rate of 40% and to be producing 500 cloned embryos of various species a day in 2016. Hossein
The web site Genpets.com sells mass-produced, bioengineered pets. [SEP] Neopets // Neopets Neopets (originally "NeoPets") is a virtual pet website. Users can own virtual pets ("Neopets"), and buy virtual items for them using one of two virtual currencies. One currency, called Neopoints, can be earned within the site, and the other, Neocash, can either be purchased with real-world money, or won by chance in-game. The website was launched by Adam Powell and Donna Williams in late 1999. Two years later, a consortium of investors led by Doug Dohring bought a controlling interest in the company and in June 2005, Viacom bought "Neopets" Inc. for US$160 million. On March 17, 2014, Viacom
The web site Genpets.com sells mass-produced, bioengineered pets. [SEP] EntirelyPets // EntirelyPets EntirelyPets is a privately held online pet supplies company founded in 1999. Based in Union City, California, EntirelyPets sells non-prescription pet medications, as well as other pet products such as pet toys, pet treats, and cleaning supplies, and ships to all 50 U.S. States as well as internationally. They have been featured in TechMediaNetwork's list of top 10 online pet supplies retailers and they were featured on an episode of The View for their pet Halloween costumes. EntirelyPets was founded in 1999 and incorporated as HealthyPets Inc. The company rebranded as EntirelyPets in 2000. As of today, both the
The web site Genpets.com sells mass-produced, bioengineered pets. [SEP] PetGadgets // pets and pet owners. As of February 2010, PetGadgets.com offers over 500 items for dogs, cats, and other pets. PetGadgets.com is among the multiple sites offered by Pet Ventures LLC serving the pet and pet owner market. In 2007 PetGadgets acquired the domain PostModernPets.com, a site formerly devoted to high-end designer furniture for pets. In 2009 PetGadgets acquired the domain YaketyYakPets.com, a social networking site aimed at pet owners. PetGadgets PetGadgets is an online retailer specializing in high-tech and innovative products for pet cats, dogs, horses and small mammals. PetGadgets.com is an online retail website specializing in products geared toward
The web site Genpets.com sells mass-produced, bioengineered pets. [SEP] Lifestyle Pets // obviously very good at what we call smoke and mirrors. He portrays a real professional company. But there's no depth to it at all." Other Brodie-affiliated companies have included Integra Associates, Samba Wireless, Geneticas Life Sciences, ForeverPet, Genetiate, GeneSentinel, and Cyntegra. Discussions on forums and blogs continue to debate the status of this company and whether it is "vaporware". This has given rise to at least one web site complaining that creature has not been provided as promised. A report page has been opened at the Better Business Bureau of Wilmington, Delaware. It shows the current rating as "Unsatisfactory." Reports
The web site Genpets.com sells mass-produced, bioengineered pets. [SEP] Genpet // of activity, and that the creatures had a limited vocal capacity. The sculptures and packaging, along with the professional-appearing hoax website, are so realistic that observers are often fooled. In 2006, Genpets were featured on the weblog for The Museum of Hoaxes in San Diego, California. as well as broadcast on BBC News Worldwide on a BBC programme called "Click" as well as the "Times" (UK), the "New York Times" and G4TechTV. All the work was hand done by the artist Adam Brandejs, with assistance from makeup artist Crystal Pallister for the coloring of the creatures. The pictures show the
The web site Genpets.com sells mass-produced, bioengineered pets. [SEP] Freshpet // Freshpet Freshpet is an American manufacturer of refrigerated food and treats for dogs and cats using natural ingredients, and are the first in the fresh and refrigerated category to be distributed across North America. It was founded in 2006 and combines meats with fruits and vegetables to make foods and treats for pets. Freshpet stock is traded on Nasdaq under the ticker symbol "FRPT". Pet foods manufactured by this company are available in over 10,000 stores in North America, including mass-market stores, natural food retailers, pet specialty stores, and retailers Target, Whole Foods, petco, petsmart and Walmart. While sales in
Cleveland Browns running back Isaiah Crowell once posted to his Instagram profile an artist's rendering of a hooded man cutting the throat of a police officer. [SEP] Isaiah Crowell // Philando Castile, Crowell posted on his Instagram a controversial violent image of a faceless person dressed in black who was slitting the throat of a captive law enforcement officer with a knife; he later had the photo deleted and apologized for his actions. Isaiah Crowell Isaiah Hassan Crowell ( ; born January 8, 1993) is an American football running back for the New York Jets of the National Football League (NFL). He played college football at Georgia and Alabama State. Crowell was signed by the Cleveland Browns as an undrafted free agent in 2014. Crowell attended George Washington Carver High
Cleveland Browns running back Isaiah Crowell once posted to his Instagram profile an artist's rendering of a hooded man cutting the throat of a police officer. [SEP] Isaiah Crowell // Isaiah Crowell Isaiah Hassan Crowell ( ; born January 8, 1993) is an American football running back for the New York Jets of the National Football League (NFL). He played college football at Georgia and Alabama State. Crowell was signed by the Cleveland Browns as an undrafted free agent in 2014. Crowell attended George Washington Carver High School in Columbus, Georgia, where he played football and ran track. During his high school career, he rushed for 4,872 yards with 61 touchdowns on 429 carries for the Tigers football team. He was considered the best running back recruit by "Scout.com" and
Cleveland Browns running back Isaiah Crowell once posted to his Instagram profile an artist's rendering of a hooded man cutting the throat of a police officer. [SEP] Isaiah Crowell // On May 10, 2014, he signed as an undrafted free agent with the Cleveland Browns and was given a $10,000 signing bonus immediately. On September 7, 2014, Crowell made his NFL debut, running for 32 yards on 5 carries and two touchdowns in a 30-27 loss to the Pittsburgh Steelers. On September 14, 2014, Crowell ran for 54 yards on 11 carries in a win over the New Orleans Saints, the Browns' first home opening win in a decade. On September 21, 2014, Crowell scored his third touchdown of the season against the Baltimore Ravens. Crowell and rookie running back
Cleveland Browns running back Isaiah Crowell once posted to his Instagram profile an artist's rendering of a hooded man cutting the throat of a police officer. [SEP] Isaiah Crowell // 48-17. Crowell returned to Cleveland for a "Thursday Night Football" contest in Week 3. He had 16 carries for 34 yards and two rushing touchdowns in the loss to the Browns. After running for one of his touchdowns, he used the football to simulate cleaning himself after defecation, then threw the ball into the stands, drawing an unsportsmanlike conduct penalty. With NFL Network carrying the game nationally and Joe Buck on the call, the gesture drew comparisons to when Randy Moss pretended to moon Green Bay Packers fans at Lambeau Field during an game in early 2005. Buck had called
Cleveland Browns running back Isaiah Crowell once posted to his Instagram profile an artist's rendering of a hooded man cutting the throat of a police officer. [SEP] Isaiah Crowell // career against the Baltimore Ravens. On December 6, Crowell ran for 62 yards on 11 carries against the Cincinnati Bengals. On December 13, Crowell ran for 145 yards on 20 carries and 2 touchdowns against the San Francisco 49ers. Included, Crowell had a 50-yard run. Crowell was the Browns' first 100-yard rusher of the season. On December 27, Crowell ran for 88 yards on 16 carries and a touchdown against the Kansas City Chiefs. Crowell finished the 2015 season with 706 rushing yards on 185 carries with 4 touchdowns, averaging 3.8 yards a carry. He played in all 16 games
Cleveland Browns running back Isaiah Crowell once posted to his Instagram profile an artist's rendering of a hooded man cutting the throat of a police officer. [SEP] Isaiah Crowell // and a touchdown against the Tennessee Titans. On October 4, Crowell ran for 63 yards on 12 carries against the San Diego Chargers, including a 32-yard run. Crowell recorded a career-high 62 receiving yards, including a career-long 53-yard catch. Crowell recorded 125 total yards and running back Duke Johnson recorded 116 total yards as well, this marked the first time the Browns had two running backs each record more than 100 total yards in the same game since 2004 (Lee Suggs with 119 yards and William Green with 115). On October 11, Crowell scored his first touchdown reception of his
Cleveland Browns running back Isaiah Crowell once posted to his Instagram profile an artist's rendering of a hooded man cutting the throat of a police officer. [SEP] Black Twitter // issue'. The first few tweets reflect the deeply personal impact of such a long-running structural issue." After Ferguson, Missouri, police officer Darren Wilson fatally shot unarmed resident Michael Brown, a high school student in Houston, Texas, named Tyler Atkins tweeted an informal photo of himself in casual clothes including a T-shirt and a bandana, and a second photo of himself posing with his prized saxophone. Atkins claimed that if the police shot him down, media would broadcast the photo of his wearing a T-shirt and a bandana and not the photo of him posing with his saxophone. #IfTheyGunnedMeDown spread virally
Cleveland Browns running back Isaiah Crowell once posted to his Instagram profile an artist's rendering of a hooded man cutting the throat of a police officer. [SEP] Isaiah Crowell // On December 10, in an overtime loss to the Green Bay Packers, he finished with a season-high 121 rushing yards. Overall, in the 2017 season, he finished with 853 rushing yards, two rushing touchdowns, 28 receptions, and 182 receiving yards as the Browns recorded the second 0–16 season in NFL history. On March 14, 2018, Crowell signed a three-year deal worth $12 million with the New York Jets. During "Monday Night Football" against the Detroit Lions in Week 1, Crowell finished with 102 rushing yards and two rushing touchdowns, of which one was a 62-yard run, as the Jets won
Cleveland Browns running back Isaiah Crowell once posted to his Instagram profile an artist's rendering of a hooded man cutting the throat of a police officer. [SEP] Isaiah Crowell // the fourth-best by "Rivals.com". In addition to football, Crowell was a standout track & field athlete. He lettered all four years competing as a sprinter and long-distance runner. He won the 100-meter dash event at the 2009 MCSD Meet, recording a career-best time of 10.91 seconds. He posted career-bests of 22.38 in the 200m, 52.53 in the 400m, and 12:36.84 in the 3200m. Starting running back Washaun Ealey's transferring to Jacksonville State in the spring led to a vacancy at that position for the 2011 season at the University of Georgia. Second string running back Caleb King was next in
Cleveland Browns running back Isaiah Crowell once posted to his Instagram profile an artist's rendering of a hooded man cutting the throat of a police officer. [SEP] Isaiah Crowell // his arrest and his constant disciplinary problems---including failing a drug test. Crowell enrolled at Alabama State in July 2012. During the 2012 season, Crowell ran the ball well, having several good games for Alabama State, including the breakout performance he displayed on September 29 by rushing for 127 yards, which included a 61-yard touchdown run in a 54-14 win against Alcorn State. He finished the 2012 season as the Hornets' leading rusher while helping Alabama State to a 7-4 record. In the 2013 season, Crowell helped lead Alabama State to an 8-4 record, good for third place in the SWAC
U.S. men less likely to heed health warnings as coronavirus death toll mounts: Reuters Poll. [SEP] Life expectancy // or intentional (suicide). Men are also more likely to die from most of the leading causes of death (some already stated above) than women. Some of these in the United States include: cancer of the respiratory system, motor vehicle accidents, suicide, cirrhosis of the liver, emphysema, prostate cancer, and coronary heart disease. These far outweigh the female mortality rate from breast cancer and cervical cancer. Some argue that shorter male life expectancy is merely another manifestation of the general rule, seen in all mammal species, that larger (size) individuals (within a species) tend, on average, to have shorter lives. This
U.S. men less likely to heed health warnings as coronavirus death toll mounts: Reuters Poll. [SEP] Masculinity // and 65 are four times more likely to die from cardiovascular disease than women, and are more likely to be diagnosed with a terminal illness because of their reluctance to see a doctor. Reasons cited for not seeing a physician include fear, denial, embarrassment, a dislike of situations out of their control and the belief that visiting a doctor is not worth the time or cost. Studies of men in North America and Europe show that men who consume alcoholic drinks often do so in order to fulfill certain social expectations of manliness. While the causes of drinking and alcoholism
U.S. men less likely to heed health warnings as coronavirus death toll mounts: Reuters Poll. [SEP] Women's health // those with diabetes and amongst smokers is also higher in women than in men. Many aspects of cardiovascular disease vary between women and men, including risk factors, prevalence, physiology, symptoms, response to intervention and outcome. Women and men have approximately equal risk of dying from cancer, which accounts for about a quarter of all deaths, and is the second leading cause of death. However the relative incidence of different cancers varies between women and men. In the United States the three commonest types of cancer of women in 2012 were lung, breast and colorectal cancers. In addition other important cancers
U.S. men less likely to heed health warnings as coronavirus death toll mounts: Reuters Poll. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // and from that family at least one additional person presented similar symptoms but tested negative for the novel coronavirus. On 21 February 2013, WHO stated that there had been 13 laboratory-confirmed cases, 6 cases (4 fatal) from Saudi Arabia, 2 cases (both fatal) from Jordan, 2 cases from Qatar, and 3 from the UK. In March 2013, the Saudi Arabia Ministry of Health reported the death of a 39-year-old man, the 15th case and 9th death reported to WHO. On 2 May 2013, the Saudi Ministry of Health announced five people died and two other people were in critical condition
U.S. men less likely to heed health warnings as coronavirus death toll mounts: Reuters Poll. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // government, in November 2013, reported a woman in Spain, who had recently traveled to Saudi Arabia for the Islamic pilgrimage, contracted the disease. On 14 April 2014, one Filipino paramedic died in the United Arab Emirates, with six other reported to be infected with the virus. On 17 April, the UAE Ministry of Health reported another fatality and four additional cases, including the Filipino medical worker who travelled to the Philippines on 16 April. On 21 April 2014, the Health Ministry of UAE reported an additional 9 cases. In April 2012, six hospital workers were diagnosed with acute respiratory failure
U.S. men less likely to heed health warnings as coronavirus death toll mounts: Reuters Poll. [SEP] R. Palmer Beasley // and the Taiwan team of investigators, he conducted a study of over 22,000 government workers starting in 1974 and followed them up to the present. That long-term study found that the risk of liver cancer was 60 times higher in chronic HBV-infected persons than non-HBV carriers, and that the lifetime risk of dying from liver cancer was 40% in infected men and 15% in infected women. Noted that the association between liver cancer and HBV carriers was stronger than the association between lung cancer and smoking (i.e., 20–25 times). "It's one of the highest relative risks that anyone has ever
U.S. men less likely to heed health warnings as coronavirus death toll mounts: Reuters Poll. [SEP] Coronavirus // 2013, a case of contamination from human to human in France was confirmed by the French Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. In addition, cases of person-to-person transmission have been reported by the Ministry of Health in Tunisia. Two confirmed cases seem to have caught the disease from their late father, who became ill after a visit to Qatar and Saudi Arabia. By Oct. 30 2013, there were 124 cases and 52 deaths in Saudi Arabia. After the Dutch Erasmus Medical Centre sequenced the virus, the virus was given a new name, Human Corona Virus-Erasmus Medical Centre (HCoV-EMC). The final
U.S. men less likely to heed health warnings as coronavirus death toll mounts: Reuters Poll. [SEP] Gender disparities in health // of alcohol consumption and psychological stress among men, leading to a spike in male mortality rates. This is because such situations often makes it harder for men to provide for their family, a task that has been long regarded as the "essence of masculinity." A retrospective analyses of people infected with the common cold found that doctors underrate the symptoms of men, and are more willing to attribute symptoms and illness to women than men. Women live longer than men in all countries, and across all age groups, for which reliable records exist. At birth, boys outnumber girls with the
U.S. men less likely to heed health warnings as coronavirus death toll mounts: Reuters Poll. [SEP] Dimitrios Trichopoulos // hepatitis B virus and tobacco smoking with increased risk of primary liver cancer (hepatocellular carcinoma), to findings documenting that surgically induced and early natural menopause reduced breast cancer risk. Beyond oncology, his paper linking psychological stress after an earthquake in Athens to increased risk of cardiac death was included in a 1997 list in "The Lancet" of 27 papers deserving to form a core canon of medical literature that every health professional should read. His oncology epidemiology and prevention research career included significant "firsts": He was first, with a 1990 paper in "The Lancet", to propose that in utero exposures
U.S. men less likely to heed health warnings as coronavirus death toll mounts: Reuters Poll. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // MERS had infected at least 60 people with cases reported in Jordan, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates (UAE), Tunisia, Germany, the United Kingdom (UK), France and Italy, with a death toll of 38. Saudi officials expressed great concern that millions of Muslims from around the world would potentially be exposed to the virus during the autumn Hajj, or pilgrimage to Mecca. In May 2014, the WHO said it was monitoring the situation as global cases of MERS appeared to be on the rise, but said the situation did not yet constitute a health emergency. On 3 June 2014,
Washington state deals blow to plan for coal export terminal. [SEP] Coal pier // from the Powder River Basin to China. The Gateway Pacific Terminal, if constructed, would be operated by SSA Marine and commence operations in 2016. Of the six proposals, three had been dropped by May 9, 2013. In addition to Gateway Pacific, Millennium Bulk Terminals in Longview, Washington, and Ambre Energy's Morrow Pacific Project in Boardman, Oregon remained under consideration. Coal pier A coal pier is a transloading facility designed for the transfer of coal between rail and ship. The typical facility for loading ships consists of a holding area and a system of conveyors for transferring the coal to dockside
Washington state deals blow to plan for coal export terminal. [SEP] Hydraulic fracturing in the United States // conduct an environmental review and approve the export facility. As of 2013, only one facility – the Sabine Pass terminal in Cameron Parish, Louisiana, run by Cheniere Energy – had both DOE and FERC approval and was under construction. Three others – Trunkline LNG in Lake Charles, Louisiana; Dominion Cove Point LNG in Lusby, Maryland; and a terminal in Freeport, Texas – have DOE approval and await FERC approval. On January 30, 2014, Cheniere Energy signed an agreement to supply 3.5 million tons to Korean Gas Corporation. A partnership of three companies (UGI Corporation, Inergy Midstream L.P. and Capitol Energy
Washington state deals blow to plan for coal export terminal. [SEP] Coal pier // by 1930. The Curtis Bay coal terminal in Baltimore, Maryland, built by the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad (B&O) in the 1880s, was for a time the largest such facility in the world. C&O and B&O also had facilities on Lake Erie. In modern times, CSX Transportation continues to serve coal piers at Newport News and Curtis Bay, and Norfolk Southern operates a large complex at Lambert's Point in Norfolk. As of 2013 in the Pacific Northwest of the United States a number of coal terminals such as the Gateway Pacific Terminal in Bellingham, Washington were proposed for export of coal
Washington state deals blow to plan for coal export terminal. [SEP] Lummi // to represent them in future lawsuits, indicating the Lummi are preparing for a fight in the courts over the Gateway Pacific Terminal. These protests by the Lummi and others regarding the Gateway Pacific Terminal connect to regional struggles against fossil coal extraction and export by environmental groups and Native American organizations in the Pacific Northwest. In September 2012, the Affiliated Tribes of Northwest Indians, a congress of more than 50 tribes in seven states, passed a resolution demanding a broad environmental impact statement for all terminal projects regionally. Another regional protest against coal development in the Pacific Northwest by Native
Washington state deals blow to plan for coal export terminal. [SEP] Lummi // aftermath of the 2017 Cypress Island Atlantic salmon pen break and were responsible for recapturing the bulk of the recovered escaped non-native farmed Atlantic salmon. The Gateway Pacific Terminal is a proposed export terminal at Xwe’chi’eXen (Cherry Point) in Whatcom County, Washington, along the Salish Sea shoreline. "Xwe’chi’eXen (Cherry Point) was an important village site for Lummi ancestors, and is considered culturally and historically significant to the Lummi people." On February 28, 2011, the environmental review process for the Gateway Pacific Terminal commenced when SSA Marine applied for state and federal permits to build the $500 million project. The scale
Washington state deals blow to plan for coal export terminal. [SEP] Boardman, Oregon // train to Boardman, where it would be loaded on barges and hauled down the Columbia River to the Port of St. Helens. There it would be transferred to ocean-going ships headed for China, South Korea, Japan, and other Asian countries. The Ambre plan has generated controversy among proponents touting economic benefits and opponents fearing environmental damage. After the public-comment period ends on August 12, 2013, the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality will decide whether to grant Ambre's request for permits to proceed. To export coal across Oregon in the way Ambre proposes, the company will also need approval from the
Washington state deals blow to plan for coal export terminal. [SEP] Hunter Valley Coal Chain // for Whitehaven Coal and Southern Shorthaul Railroad for Centennial Coal. Port Waratah Coal Services Limited (PWCS) operates the main coal export facilities in Newcastle. The coal export facilities consist of two coal loading terminals, located on either side of the South Channel of the Hunter River. These are known as the Kooragang Coal Terminal, on Kooragang Island and the Carrington Coal Terminal in the suburb of Carrington. Each of those terminals comprises equipment for the delivery and storage of coal to the terminal and for the loading of coal onto vessels. PWCS leases the land on which the port is
Washington state deals blow to plan for coal export terminal. [SEP] Loni Hancock // after Connecticut and Rhode Island. The program, known as "Bye Bye Mattress," is administered by CalRecycle, and became operational in early 2016. After the announcement of the planned construction of a coal export terminal in West Oakland, Hancock introduced several bills in 2016 to attempt to curtail the transport of coal through California. Later that year, Governor Brown signed SB 1279, which prohibits the use of state funds for the construction of new coal transportation projects. In his bill signing message, the Governor remarked that "other localities should follow suit—and the state should, too—to reduce, and ultimately, eliminate the shipment
Washington state deals blow to plan for coal export terminal. [SEP] Lummi // over employment opportunities, stating "We cannot turn our backs on people who are struggling in this community, but that doesn't mean we take jobs at any cost." In May, 2012, the Seattle City Council unanimously passed a resolution in opposition to the development of coal export ports in the region. This followed the passage of resolutions in opposition by smaller municipalities regionally, including Hood River, Oregon, and Camas, Washougal, and Marysville, in Washington. In October 2012, a group of Native and non-Native fishermen gathered a fleet of boats in the waters around Xwe’chi’eXen to stand with the Lummi Nation in
Washington state deals blow to plan for coal export terminal. [SEP] Port of Mobile // Veracruz, in Mexico. The Port of Mobile is the largest break bulk forest products port in the United States, and the Alabama State Port Authority's McDuffie Terminal is one of the largest coal terminals in the United States and largest import coal terminal. The port was the fourth largest exporter of coal during 2012, with the majority exported for metallurgical processes. The largest shares of coal exports from Mobile went to Europe and South America. The Alabama State Port Authority announced in 2010 that $360 million would be spent over the following five years to improve infrastructure at the port.
A report of a 7-year-old girl who got breast implants has stirred controversy. [SEP] Breast implant // announced the discontinuation of five implant-grade silicones, but would continue producing 45 other, medical-grade, silicone materials—three years later, in 1995, the Dow Corning Corporation went bankrupt when it faced large class action lawsuits claiming a variety of illnesses. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration established the age ranges for women seeking breast implants; for breast reconstruction, silicone-gel filled implants and saline-filled implants were approved for women of all ages; for breast augmentation, saline implants were approved for women 18 years of age and older; silicone implants were approved for women 22 years of age and older. Because each breast implant
A report of a 7-year-old girl who got breast implants has stirred controversy. [SEP] Nikki Grahame // of 18 Grahame was given breast implants on the NHS, because her years of anorexia had left her flat-chested. In April 2007 Grahame revealed that she had undergone corrective plastic surgery on her breast implants in order to fix "ripples" left by the first operation. In February 2009, Grahame was injured in a car accident; she suffered cracked ribs and required stitches on her head. Grahame was in the back seat of the car and was thrown forwards when the car braked. In March 2014, Grahame revealed that she was moving to France as she begrudged being recognised in public.
A report of a 7-year-old girl who got breast implants has stirred controversy. [SEP] Breast implant // remained constant until 10-years post-implantation, yet, it increased to 4.5 times greater at the 11-year mark, and so remained until the 19-year mark, when it increased to 6 times greater at 20-years post-implantation. Moreover, additional to the suicide-risk, women with breast implants also faced a trebled death-risk from alcoholism and the abuse of prescription and recreational drugs. Although seven studies have statistically connected a woman's breast augmentation to a greater suicide-rate, the research indicates that breast augmentation surgery does not increase the death rate; and that, in the first instance, it is the psychopathologically-inclined woman who is more likely to
A report of a 7-year-old girl who got breast implants has stirred controversy. [SEP] Timmie Jean Lindsey // groups of women (including several of her own relatives) who filed lawsuits about health problems associated with the implants, although she reported having experienced many of those problems. Timmie Jean Lindsey Timmie Jean Lindsey (born 1932) was the first person in the world to undergo plastic surgery for breast augmentation by means of silicone implants, in 1962. At the time, she was 29 years old and the divorced mother of six children. Hoping to have a large tattoo removed from her chest, she visited a plastic surgeon at the Jefferson Davis Hospital in Houston. The surgeon, Frank Gerow, was one
A report of a 7-year-old girl who got breast implants has stirred controversy. [SEP] Breast augmentation // reduces the incidence of revision surgery. Appropriate tissue matching, implant selection, and proper implantation technique, the re-operation rate was 3.0% at the 7-year-mark, compared with the re-operation rate of 20% at the 3-year-mark, as reported by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. Since the 1990s, reviews of the studies that sought causal links between silicone-gel breast implants and systemic disease reported no link between the implants and subsequent systemic and autoimmune diseases. Nonetheless, during the 1990s, thousands of women claimed sicknesses they believed were caused by their breast implants, including neurological and rheumatological health problems. In the study "Long-term Health
A report of a 7-year-old girl who got breast implants has stirred controversy. [SEP] Breast implant // implants for breast reconstruction "after" breast cancer mastectomy appears to have no negative effect upon the incidence of cancer-related death. In 1988, twenty-six years after the 1962 introduction of breast implants filled with silicone gel, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) investigated breast implant failures and the subsequent complications, and re-classified breast implant devices as Class III medical devices, and required from manufacturers the documentary data substantiating the safety and efficacy of their breast implant devices. In 1992, the FDA placed silicone-gel breast implants in moratorium in the U.S., because there was “inadequate information to demonstrate that breast implants
A report of a 7-year-old girl who got breast implants has stirred controversy. [SEP] Heather Morris // of "Fitness" magazine, she stated that she had had her breast implants removed. "Implants were something I thought I wanted when I was younger, and now I don't. It was hard being active with them, because my chest was always sore. It hurt a lot, and I didn't like always being in pain, so they had to go!" Her breast implant surgery was done sometime between her time on "So You Think You Can Dance" at age 18, and age 21 when she was a backup dancer for Beyoncé. Morris was taking acting classes and actively pursuing an acting career
A report of a 7-year-old girl who got breast implants has stirred controversy. [SEP] Vaginal transplantation // after three years. In at least one case, a woman who received such a transplant was able to conceive and give birth. In 1981, a 12-year-old girl with vaginal aplasia received a vaginal wall implant from her mother. She became sexually active seven years later, without incident. At age 24, she conceived and carried a child to term. The child was born via cesarean section. In April 2014, a team of scientists led by Anthony Atala reported that they had successfully transplanted laboratory-grown vaginas into four female teenaged girls with a rare medical condition called Mayer-Rokitansky-Küster-Hauser syndrome that causes the
A report of a 7-year-old girl who got breast implants has stirred controversy. [SEP] Cosmetic surgery in Australia // rectify the issue. The debate around whether this is ethically correct exists with the viewpoint that this is unethical and the surgeries are for the purpose of vanity. Other sides of the debate argue for the lasting impacts on the children during adolescent years due to the dis-figuration causing prejudice and view the surgical procedures will attribute to the child's mental health in later years. In 2011, concerns were expressed as information arose in regards to the quality of the material being used in silicone breast implants. Industrial grade silicone was being used in the replacement of medical grade supplies
A report of a 7-year-old girl who got breast implants has stirred controversy. [SEP] Breast augmentation // likely to commit suicide as are women who have not sought breast implants. Compared to the standard suicide-rate for women of the general populace, the suicide-rate for women with augmented breasts remained alike until 10-years post-implantation, yet it increased to 4.5 times greater at the 11-year mark, and so remained until the 19-year mark, when it increased to 6.0 times greater at 20-years post-implantation. Moreover, additional to the suicide risk, women with breast implants also faced a trebled death risk from alcoholism and drugs abuse (prescription and recreational). Although seven studies have statistically connected a woman's undergoing a breast augmentation
Images shared in March 2020 showed a convoy of military trucks transporting bodies away from an over-subscribed crematorium in Bergamo, Italy. [SEP] Afghan Massacre: The Convoy of Death // truck driver says that half of the people he transported in a container were dead upon arrival. An Afghan taxi driver tells Doran of a visit to a petrol station: "At the time they were taking prisoners from Qaala Zeini to Scheberghan. I went to fill my car with petrol. I smelled something strange and asked the petrol attendant where the smell was coming from. He said 'look behind you', and there were trucks with containers fixed on them. I was surprised. I saw something very strange. Blood was leaking from the containers – they were full of dead bodies."
Images shared in March 2020 showed a convoy of military trucks transporting bodies away from an over-subscribed crematorium in Bergamo, Italy. [SEP] Mortuary Affairs // mortuary at Dover Air Force Base in Delaware. Another small group will work with the 246th or 311th Quartermaster Company from Puerto Rico, a Reserve Mortuary Affairs unit, in Dover Air Force Base in Delaware, at the Joint Personal Effects Depot (JPED). Here, soldiers will receive, inventory, process, clean, filter, and ship all items belonging to deceased or injured soldiers. The 92Ms have cared for the majority of the more than 4,500 military casualties in Iraq and Afghanistan. They operate under a code of conduct that's part scientific and part symbolic. Using the language of a medical examiner, they fill
Images shared in March 2020 showed a convoy of military trucks transporting bodies away from an over-subscribed crematorium in Bergamo, Italy. [SEP] Ontario Highway 401 // Freeway". This length of the highway is often travelled by a convoy of vehicles carrying a fallen soldier's body, with his or her family, from CFB Trenton to the coroner's office at the Centre for Forensic Sciences in Toronto. Since 2002, when the first fallen Canadian soldiers were repatriated from Afghanistan, crowds have lined the overpasses to pay their respects as convoys pass. The origin of the name can be traced to an article in the "Toronto Sun" on June 23, 2007, by columnist Joe Warmington, in which he interviewed Northumberland photographer Pete Fisher. Fisher, along with Bob Jenkins, an
Images shared in March 2020 showed a convoy of military trucks transporting bodies away from an over-subscribed crematorium in Bergamo, Italy. [SEP] Highways in Ontario // Canadian soldiers, whose bodies were repatriated from Afghanistan in funeral convoys along that stretch of the highway. The privately-owned section of Highway 407 uses a white rectangular marker with the highway number in a capsule, with the words "Express Toll Route" and the ETR logo below; trailblazers are blue with white lettering. On April 1, 1997, and January 1, 1998, the Ontario government under the leadership of Mike Harris transferred, or "downloaded", several thousand kilometres of provincially maintained highways to the various municipalities in which they are located. These transfers were performed under the reasoning that they served a mostly
Images shared in March 2020 showed a convoy of military trucks transporting bodies away from an over-subscribed crematorium in Bergamo, Italy. [SEP] Aid Convoy // event, the first vehicle specifically purchased for the group broke down "en route". However, the Dodge 50 Series 5.6 ton truck was rescued thanks to Simon Mayo of BBC Radio 1. It arrived in time to rejoin the rest of the forty-vehicle convoy in a United Nations compound in the Republic of Macedonia, but elected to deliver its load directly to the village of Pirok (near Tetovo) rather than the neighbouring refugee camp, after meeting local officials who explained that the village was overrun with refugees and receiving no mainstream assistance. By now the group was clearly going to continue
Images shared in March 2020 showed a convoy of military trucks transporting bodies away from an over-subscribed crematorium in Bergamo, Italy. [SEP] Briar Rose (novel) // trucks arrive at their destination, a mass grave, all of the people it was carrying have been gassed to death by the truck exhaust. The people are then dumped into the grave. When the bodies are dumped one of the partisans, named The Avenger notices that a woman with red hair (Gemma) is still alive and faintly breathing. Josef revives her through mouth-to-mouth resuscitation, which the woman, (who is later called KSIĘŻNICZKA, which means 'princess' in Polish) refers to in her fairy tale as "the kiss of life". In reality, during this period of time, 320,000 were killed in Chelmno
Images shared in March 2020 showed a convoy of military trucks transporting bodies away from an over-subscribed crematorium in Bergamo, Italy. [SEP] The Italian Job // which escorts the gold convoy is a conversion of a former Second World War American M8 Greyhound armoured car. The original 37mm gun was removed and replaced with a water cannon. A Land Rover Series IIa Station Wagon, registration BKO 686C, was used to get to the convoy before attacking and was modified with window bars and a towbar. A Ford Thames 400E van was used for the football fans' decorated van; this was referred to as the Dormobile, the name of a common camper-van conversion coachbuilder. The cross-Channel ferry featured in one scene is the MS "Free Enterprise I".
Images shared in March 2020 showed a convoy of military trucks transporting bodies away from an over-subscribed crematorium in Bergamo, Italy. [SEP] Lucia Apicella // road, currently named "Strada statale 18 Tirrena Inferiore", which passes into the valley of Cava. Because of the relatively rapid advance of the Anglo-Americans forces toward Naples, hundreds of unburied bodies of the dead were left abandoned on the battlefields around Cava de' Tirreni. Apicella was a religious woman and felt it her Christian duty to bury the remains of the German soldiers. After attending the scene where some children were kicking the skull of a soldier, and after dreaming of eight German soldiers begging her to hand over their bodies to their mothers, Apicella worked to find the remains
Images shared in March 2020 showed a convoy of military trucks transporting bodies away from an over-subscribed crematorium in Bergamo, Italy. [SEP] Tram // more" such cars in operation. In Milan, Italy, hearse trams were used from the 1880s (initially horse-drawn) to the 1920s. The main cemeteries, Cimitero Monumentale and Cimitero Maggiore, included funeral tram stations. Additional funeral stations were located at Piazza Firenze and at Porta Romana. In the mid-1940s at least one special hearse tram was used in Turin, Italy. It was introduced due to the wartime shortage of automotive fuel. Newcastle, Australia also operated two hearse trams between 1896 and 1948. In 1937, Melbourne passenger tramcar C class number 30 was converted for transporting dogs and their owners to the Royal
Images shared in March 2020 showed a convoy of military trucks transporting bodies away from an over-subscribed crematorium in Bergamo, Italy. [SEP] Operation Flavius // charter aircraft to collect the corpses from Gibraltar and fly them to Dublin on 14 March. In 2017 it emerged that Charles Haughey had secretly requested that the Royal Air Force fly the bodies direct to Belfast, bypassing the Republic of which he was Taoiseach. Two thousand people waited to meet the coffins in Dublin, which were then driven north to Belfast. At the Northern Ireland border, the Northern Irish authorities met the procession with a large number of police and military vehicles, and insisted on intervals between the hearses, causing tensions between police and members of the procession and
12 Minutes of Yoga for Better Bone Health [SEP] Ira Trivedi // 21 June 2016. In this book, yoga acharya and bestselling author Ira Trivedi tells you how you can shed weight, get washboard abs, lower blood pressure with just 10 minutes of yoga a day. Just 10 minutes can get you in shape, cure back ache, achieve better exam results and even heal a broken heart. Yoga is much more than an exercise it prepares and disciplines your body and mind for a transformative spiritual experience. Tested and perfected on hundreds of Ira s students, the modules in The 10-Minute Yoga Solution will put you on the path of health, healing
12 Minutes of Yoga for Better Bone Health [SEP] Yourself!Fitness // Upper Strength, Core Strength, and Lower Strength. In addition to this, Maya will also suggest an emphasis for each workout a player initiates. In addition to these workout options, the player can choose to do Yoga by selecting the Meditation Garden. Once a workout is selected, the player can choose the duration of her workout—15 minutes, 30 minutes, 45 minutes, or 60 minutes. The duration is a rough estimate, with the workouts often being a few minutes longer due to additional time spent warming up and stretching. The player can then choose a virtual environment to work out in as
12 Minutes of Yoga for Better Bone Health [SEP] Cardiac yoga // their blood pressure and resting heart rate, which in turn can help to lower the risk of heart problems. In the Czech Republic, Dr Wolfgang Mayer-Berger conducted a study on male cardiac-rehab patients that had been previously diagnosed with hypertension. The participants took part in the three-week program, which consisted of half an hour of “cardiac yoga”, for five days per week. The results showed declines in systolic blood pressure. The patients who participated in the “cardiac yoga” continued on with the exercises after the study was complete. Cardiac yoga is aimed at helping cardiovascular patients to develop an exercise
12 Minutes of Yoga for Better Bone Health [SEP] Physical fitness // who are achieving 150 minutes of exercise a week. These guidelines, are now much more in line with those used in the US, also include recommendations for muscle-building and bone strengthening activities such as lifting weights and yoga.<https://www.nhs.uk/news/lifestyle-and-exercise/major-new-exercise-guidelines-announced/> The US guidelines continue: For additional and more extensive health benefits, adults should increase their aerobic physical activity to 300 minutes (5 hours) a week of moderate-intensity, or 150 minutes a week of vigorous-intensity aerobic physical activity, or an equivalent combination of moderate- and vigorous-intensity activity. Additional health benefits are gained by engaging in physical activity beyond this amount. Adults should also
12 Minutes of Yoga for Better Bone Health [SEP] Ashtanga vinyasa yoga // to do rechaka and puraka, (exhale and inhale) as much as possible. "It is sufficient, however, to breathe in and out five to eight times in each posture." In an interview regarding the length of the breath, Pattabhi Jois intructs practitioners to (translated quote), "Inhale 10 to 15 seconds then exhale also 10 to 15 seconds". He goes on to clarify, "(As) your breath strength is possibly 10 second inhalations and exhalations, you do 10, 15 seconds possible, you do 15. One hundred possible, you perform 100. 5 is possible, you do 5". His son Manju Jois also recommends taking
12 Minutes of Yoga for Better Bone Health [SEP] Hot yoga // a warm room. Yin is a slow-paced yoga practice with fewer postures held for longer periods of time. Each pose can last anywhere from 1 minute to 5 minutes or longer. Pregnant women are advised to avoid practicing yoga in extremely warm or humid conditions. When exposed to excessive heat while pregnant, there is an increased risk of over-exhaustion, muscle injury and cartilage and tissue damage. Hormones and fetal development affect blood pressure, making the mother more susceptible to fainting and light-headedness if exercising in a hot environment. Bikram Yoga is a popular form of yoga that incorporates 26 poses
12 Minutes of Yoga for Better Bone Health [SEP] Shavasana // consciously released as it is found. All control of the breath, the mind, and the body is then released for the duration of the asana. Shavasana is typically practiced for 5–10 minutes at the end of an asana practice, but can be practiced for 20–30 minutes. The asana is released by slowly deepening the breath, flexing the fingers and toes, reaching the arms above the head, stretching the whole body, and exhaling while bringing the knees to the chest and rolling over to the side in a fetal position, drawing the head in the right arm. From here, one can
12 Minutes of Yoga for Better Bone Health [SEP] Yin yoga // Yin yoga Yin yoga is a slow-paced style of yoga with postures, or "asanas", that are held for longer periods of time—for beginners, it may range from 45 seconds to two minutes; more advanced practitioners may stay in one "asana" for five minutes or more. Yin yoga poses apply moderate stress to the connective tissues of the body—the tendons, fascia, and ligaments—with the aim of increasing circulation in the joints and improving flexibility. A more meditative approach to yoga, yin aims at cultivating awareness of inner silence, and bringing to light a universal, interconnecting quality. Yin yoga's teaching in the
12 Minutes of Yoga for Better Bone Health [SEP] Living Beyond Breast Cancer // because of medical research suggesting that yoga has a positive effect on the quality of life of cancer patients. The event involves a one-hour yoga class held at the Philadelphia Museum of Art. This is followed by breakfast and a health and fitness information Expo for participants and supporters, featuring a variety of nonprofits and service organizations. It was first organized in 2002 by Jean Sachs and yoga instructor Jennifer Schelter. In 2002, 100 attendees met in the rain. In 2015, the program attracted over 2,300 attendees in Philadelphia, as well as participants in other cities including Washington, D.C., Kansas
12 Minutes of Yoga for Better Bone Health [SEP] Best Bones Forever // Best Bones Forever! campaign and transferred leadership to American Bone Health, a nonprofit organization that had been a longtime partner of the campaign. By the end of high school, girls develop up to 90% of their bone mass. Therefore, it is critical that girls ages 9 to 18 build strong, healthy bones that will remain strong for life. Foods high in calcium and vitamin D and 60 minutes of daily bone-strengthening activity will help lower girls’ risk of developing fractures or osteoporosis later in life. Girls between the ages of 9 and 18 need 60 minutes of physical activity a
Complacency a concern as AIDS treatment improves in Africa. [SEP] HIV/AIDS in Africa // condom (ABC) strategy to prevent HIV infection promotes safer sexual behavior and emphasizes the need for fidelity, fewer sexual partners, and a later age of sexual debut. The implementation of ABC differs among those who use it. For example, the President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief has focused more on abstinence and fidelity than condoms while Uganda has had a more balanced approach to the three elements. The effectiveness of ABC is controversial. At the 16th International AIDS Conference in 2006, African countries gave the strategy mixed reviews. In Botswana, [M]uch of the ABC message was getting through, but ...
Complacency a concern as AIDS treatment improves in Africa. [SEP] HIV/AIDS in Uganda // and a general complacency or 'AIDS fatigue'. It has been suggested that antiretroviral drugs have changed the perception of AIDS from a death sentence to a treatable, manageable disease; this may have reduced the fear surrounding HIV, and in turn have led to an increase in risky behaviour. Although prevention interventions, like safe male circumcision, have been shown to effectively reduce HIV transmission, studies in Uganda have shown delayed uptake of these interventions and attributed this to contestations over evidence by high-level leaders. Although abstinence has always been part of the country’s prevention strategy it has come under scrutiny since
Complacency a concern as AIDS treatment improves in Africa. [SEP] HIV/AIDS in Africa // increasing infidelity. This increase has caused alarm. The director of the Centre for Disease Control – Uganda, Wuhib Tadesse, said in 2011 that, for every person started on antiretroviral therapy, there are three new HIV infections[,] and this is unsustainable. We are ... very concerned. ... [C]omplacence could be part of the problem. Young people nowadays no longer see people dying; they see people on ARVs but getting children. We need to re-examine our strategies... Leaders at all levels are spending ... [more] time in workshops than in the communities to sensitive the people[,] and this must stop." Western Africa
Complacency a concern as AIDS treatment improves in Africa. [SEP] HIV/AIDS in Africa // in HIV prevalence. The global response to HIV and AIDS has improved considerably in recent years. Funding comes from many sources, the largest of which are the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria and the President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief. According to the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS), the number of HIV positive people in Africa receiving anti-retroviral treatment rose from 1 million to 7.1 million between 2005 and 2012, an 805% increase. Almost 1 million of those patients were treated in 2012. The number of HIV positive people in South Africa who received such
Complacency a concern as AIDS treatment improves in Africa. [SEP] HIV/AIDS in Africa // Malawi, Mozambique, Namibia, South Africa, Eswatini, Zambia, and Zimbabwe. In response, a number of initiatives have been launched in various parts of the continent to educate the public on HIV/AIDS. Among these are combination prevention programmes, considered to be the most effective initiative, such as the abstinence, be faithful, use a condom campaign and the Desmond Tutu HIV Foundation's outreach programs. According to a 2013 special report issued by the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS), the number of HIV positive people in Africa receiving anti-retroviral treatment in 2012 was over seven times the number receiving treatment in 2005,
Complacency a concern as AIDS treatment improves in Africa. [SEP] HIV/AIDS in Africa // years, they have now begun to work toward solutions. AIDS was at first considered a disease of gay men and drug addicts, but in Africa it took off among the general population. As a result, those involved in the fight against HIV began to emphasize aspects such as preventing transmission from mother to child, or the relationship between HIV and poverty, inequality of the sexes, and so on, rather than emphasizing the need to prevent transmission by unsafe sexual practices or drug injection. This change in emphasis resulted in more funding, but was not effective in preventing a drastic rise
Complacency a concern as AIDS treatment improves in Africa. [SEP] HIV/AIDS in Lesotho // only 3% of urban patients walked. Those too ill to travel alone require accompaniment, at the risk of worsening existing health conditions. Preexisting or concurrent health conditions, both communicable and chronic, can increase an individual's risk of HIV contraction as well as exacerbate the progression of the disease. Malnutrition may be the greatest obstacle to effective HIV treatment. Starvation allows rapid progression of HIV by undermining the body's natural defense mechanisms and promoting viral replication. This can lead to increased toxicity of HIV/AIDS treatment drugs. General maternal malnutrition and vitamin deficiencies can increase risk of MTCT. In 2015, the World
Complacency a concern as AIDS treatment improves in Africa. [SEP] Human rights in South Africa // of schools and the controversy surrounding that, the government did not focus on providing quality sex education that specifically focused on HIV/AIDS. Additionally, the local and federal governments had contention about the allocation of funds for HIV/AIDS prevention, thus causing inefficiency and gridlock. Also, some of the money allocated to HIV/AIDS prevention was misused. For example, a musical called "Serefina II" was projected to increase awareness about AIDS and AIDS prevention. However, the play was not clear and did not significantly help with sex education. Much of the HIV/AIDS treatment and progress have been funded by non profit organizations such
Complacency a concern as AIDS treatment improves in Africa. [SEP] HIV/AIDS in Africa // tested and found effective a tenofivir-based anti-retroviral vaginal gel that could be used as pre-exposure prophylaxis. Testing of this gel was conducted at the University of KwaZulu-Natal in Durban, South Africa. The South African government has indicated its willingness to make it widely available. The FDA in the US is in the process of reviewing the drug for approval for US use. The AIDS/HIV epidemic has led to the rise in unethical medical experimentation in Africa. Since the epidemic is widespread, African governments sometimes relax their laws in order to get research conducted in their countries which they would otherwise
Complacency a concern as AIDS treatment improves in Africa. [SEP] Demographics of Africa // these are combination prevention programmes, considered to be the most effective initiative, the abstinence, be faithful, use a condom campaign, and the Desmond Tutu HIV Foundation's outreach programs. According to a 2013 special report issued by the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS), the number of HIV positive people in Africa receiving anti-retroviral treatment in 2012 was over seven times the number receiving treatment in 2005, with an almost 1 million added in the last year alone. The number of AIDS-related deaths in sub-Saharan Africa in 2011 was 33 percent less than the number in 2005. The number of
Data suggests opioid-related overdose deaths in Alaska down. [SEP] Charlie Baker // proposed the previous November, and during his testimony, expressed skepticism about the effectiveness of supervised injection sites. In February 2018, the Massachusetts Department of Public Health released data showing that opioid overdose deaths in Massachusetts fell by 8 percent in 2017, and the following May, the Massachusetts Department of Public Health released further data showing the number of opioid overdose deaths in Massachusetts during the first three months of 2018 was 5 percent lower than during the first three months of 2017. In June 2018, Baker spoke in support of a lawsuit filed by Massachusetts Attorney General Maura Healey on
Data suggests opioid-related overdose deaths in Alaska down. [SEP] Opioid epidemic // compared to 2016. In the U.S., addiction and overdoses affect mostly Whites and the working class. Native Americans and Alaska Natives experienced a five-fold increase in opioid-overdose deaths between 1999 and 2015, with Native Americans having the highest increase of any demographic group. One physician conjectured that this trend may be due to doctors being less likely to prescribe opiates to patients because of past drug abuse stereotypes. In the United States, those living in rural areas of the country have been the hardest hit since the Great Depression of 2k as a percentage of the national population, Canada is
Data suggests opioid-related overdose deaths in Alaska down. [SEP] Opioid epidemic // 1,500 deaths in 2017. In Pennsylvania, the number of opioid deaths increased 44 percent from 2016 to 2017, with 5,200 deaths in 2017. Governor Tom Wolf declared a state of emergency in response to the crisis. Approximately 80 percent of the global pharmaceutical opioid supply is consumed in the United States. It has also become a serious problem outside the U.S., mostly among young adults. The concern not only relates to the drugs themselves, but to the fact that in many countries doctors are less trained about drug addiction, both about its causes or treatment. According to an epidemiologist at
Data suggests opioid-related overdose deaths in Alaska down. [SEP] Opioid overdose // 72,000 overdose deaths in the US in 2017, opioids were involved in over 49,000. This is an increase from 2016 where over 64,000 died from drug overdose, and opioids were involved in over 42,000. In 2016, the five states with the highest rates of death due to drug overdose were West Virginia (52.0 per 100,000), Ohio (39.1 per 100,000), New Hampshire (39.0 per 100,000), Pennsylvania (37.9 per 100,000) and Kentucky (33.5 per 100,000). Concerning the 2017 data in the charts below deaths from the various drugs add up to more than 72,000 because multiple drugs are involved in many of
Data suggests opioid-related overdose deaths in Alaska down. [SEP] Opioid epidemic // increased over 72% from 2014 to 2015. In addition, the CDC reports that the total deaths from opioid overdoses may be under-counted, since they do not include deaths that are associated with synthetic opioids which are used as pain relievers. The CDC presumes that a large proportion of the increase in deaths is due to illegally-made fentanyl; as the statistics on overdose deaths (as of 2015) do not distinguish pharmaceutical fentanyl from illegally-made fentanyl, the actual death rate could, therefore, be much higher than reported. Those taking fentanyl-laced heroin are more likely to overdose because they do not know they
Data suggests opioid-related overdose deaths in Alaska down. [SEP] Opioid epidemic // Hispanic and Native Americans has increased at similar rates. Deaths by overdose among white, black, and Native Americans increased by 200–300% from 2010–2014. During this time period, overdoses among Hispanics increased 140%, and the data available on overdoses by Asians was not comprehensive enough to draw a conclusion. Social media may also be an outlet for detecting illegal online sales of opioids. In 2017, researchers tested a methodology that used keywords to aggregate tweets and employed unsupervised machine learning and web forensic analyses to identify illegal online marketing of opioids. These efforts can aid criminal investigators in identifying violators of
Data suggests opioid-related overdose deaths in Alaska down. [SEP] 2014 Florida Amendment 2 // over time the relationship was even more apparent, as deaths attributed to opioid overdose were nearly 20 percent lower in the first year after a state's medical use law was implemented, and opioid overdose deaths continued to decrease to 33.7 percent lower five years after implementation of medicinal use laws. The study provides irrefutable evidence using a discrete data set (state), with a clear variable (with or without medicinal cannabis use), and a measurable mortality rate may provide the proof that cannabis is a safer medication for those patients suffering from chronic pain such as that endured by cancer patients.
Data suggests opioid-related overdose deaths in Alaska down. [SEP] 2014 Florida Amendment 2 // death caused by opioid overdoses between 1999 and 2010. Results of the research reflect that on average, the (then 13) states with laws permitting medical use of cannabis reported an opioid overdose mortality rate at 24.8 percent lower after the compassionate use laws were enacted than those states without compassionate use laws. Implications of the findings may be the best evidence of the claims long made by proponents of medical marijuana use whose previous arguments were largely supported by anecdotal evidence due to the FDA ban inhibiting research. Long term benefits may be even greater where the study revealed that
Data suggests opioid-related overdose deaths in Alaska down. [SEP] Opioid epidemic // overdose and addiction associated with the drug. SB 1109 also targets vulnerable populations like students, requiring schools to provide students participating in youth sports or athletic programs with the Opioid Factsheet for Patients, written by the CDC, that again address the risks of opioid use. At 24.6 deaths per 1,000 people, Ohio has the 5th highest rate of drug overdose deaths in the United States. The Governor's Cabinet Opiate Action Team (GCOAT) was created in 2011 by Governor John Kasich and is "one of the nation's most aggressive and comprehensive approaches to address opioid use disorder and overdose deaths, including
Data suggests opioid-related overdose deaths in Alaska down. [SEP] Opioid epidemic // trafficked by cartels. North America's dominant trafficking group is Mexico's Sinaloa Cartel, which has been linked to 80 percent of the fentanyl seized in New York. Opioid epidemic The opioid epidemic or opioid crisis is the rapid increase in the use of prescription and non-prescription opioid drugs in the United States and Canada beginning in the late 1990s and continuing throughout the next two decades. The increase in opioid overdose deaths has been dramatic, and opioids are now responsible for 49,000 of the 72,000 drug overdose deaths overall in the US in 2017. The rate of prolonged opioid use is
Oregano, Thyme May Hold the Cure for Wasting Syndrome Disease [SEP] Thymus praecox // in patios and walkways. It is drought tolerant when established. This thyme species (and "Thymus serpyllum") has escaped cultivation in North America, and is a weed or invasive species in some habitats in the United States. This thyme has a strong scent similar to Oregano. It can be used in cuisine. Like other species of thyme, "T. praecox" is characterized by substantial differences in essential oil composition from plant to plant. Plants which differ in this way are known as "chemotypes" and a geographical population will generally contain a mix of chemotypes. For example, studies of chemotypes in Greenland, Iceland,
Oregano, Thyme May Hold the Cure for Wasting Syndrome Disease [SEP] Equisetum // arvense", such as for invigoration, weight control, skincare, hair health or bone health. , there is insufficient scientific evidence for its effectiveness as a medicine to treat any human condition. "E. arvense" contains thiaminase, which metabolizes the B vitamin, thiamine, potentially causing thiamine deficiency and associated liver damage, if taken chronically. Horsetail might produce a diuretic effect. Further, its safety for oral consumption has not been sufficiently evaluated and it may be toxic, especially to children and pregnant women. Equisetum Equisetum (; horsetail, snake grass, puzzlegrass) is the only living genus in Equisetaceae, a family of vascular plants that reproduce
Oregano, Thyme May Hold the Cure for Wasting Syndrome Disease [SEP] Oregano // to indicate that either has any effect on human health. In 2005, the US Federal Trade Commission brought legal action against a firm that had claimed oregano oil treated colds and flu or relieved bacterial and viral infections. In 2014, the US Food and Drug Administration warned a Utah company, Young Living, that its herbal products, including oregano essential oil, were being promoted to have numerous anti-disease effects and so were being sold as unauthorized misbranded drugs subject to seizure and federal penalties. Oregano contains polyphenols, including numerous flavones. The essential oil of oregano is composed primarily of monoterpenoids and
Oregano, Thyme May Hold the Cure for Wasting Syndrome Disease [SEP] Iberogast // folium"), balm leaf ("Melissae folium") and chamomile flower ("Matricariae flos"). A 2004 meta-analysis comprising three randomized placebo-controlled studies with a total of 173 patients suggested that iberogast was more effective than placebo in relieving "the most bothersome gastrointestinal symptom" of functional dyspepsia as identified by each patient. Additionally, a single reference-controlled study was discussed, comparing iberogast to the prokinetic cisapride in the treatment of "'functional dyspepsia of the dysmotility type'" and finding no significant differences in efficacy or tolerability. This paper noted that, while iberogast seems to consistently provide symptomatic relief to patients, its efficacy is more evident "with associated
Oregano, Thyme May Hold the Cure for Wasting Syndrome Disease [SEP] Lippia graveolens // thymol, 0-48% carvacrol, 3-30% para-cymene, and 0-15% eucalyptol. The first two components give the plant a flavor similar to oregano, and the leaves are widely used as an herb in Mexico and Central America. Lippia graveolens Lippia graveolens, a species of flowering plant in the verbena family, Verbenaceae, is native to the southwestern United States (Texas and southern New Mexico), Mexico, and Central America as far south as Nicaragua. Common names include Mexican oregano, redbrush lippia, "orégano Cimmaron", scented lippia, and scented matgrass. The specific epithet is derived from two Latin words: "gravis", meaning "heavy", and "oleo", meaning "oil". It
Oregano, Thyme May Hold the Cure for Wasting Syndrome Disease [SEP] Striga hermonthica // ripple effect, resulting in the dysregulation of the plant's light and dark cycle, resulting in the striga's death. In 2018, an essential protein for witchweed germination was found to consistently bind to Triton X-100 molecules, which appears to inhibit the germination of the striga seeds, preventing the natural strigolactones from binding to their usual substrate. In the late 1990s, "21 million hectares of cereals in Africa were estimated to be infested by "S. hermonthica", leading to an estimated annual grain loss of 4.1 million tons". Striga hermonthica Striga hermonthica, commonly known as purple witchweed or giant witchweed, is a hemiparasitic
Oregano, Thyme May Hold the Cure for Wasting Syndrome Disease [SEP] Santería // and also mentions that with the 31 herbs prescribed as bronchodilators, only "Datura candida" was effective, due to its contents of scopolamine and atropine in the leaves. Lemongrass or "" is used for low blood pressure and anti-inflammatory effects. Thyme tea and castor oil are used to speed the delivery of babies and the broomweed ("Corchorus siliquosus") induces the quick expulsion of the placenta. Herbs are also used to create a trance possession using the hallucinogenic properties of "Datura metel" and "Datura stramonium" (both have scopolamine and atropine, causing amnesia), the psychoactive ingredients from the cane toad ("Bufo marinus"). Aside
Oregano, Thyme May Hold the Cure for Wasting Syndrome Disease [SEP] Oregano // when dried than fresh. It has an aromatic, warm, and slightly bitter taste, which can vary in intensity. Good-quality oregano may be strong enough almost to numb the tongue, but cultivars adapted to colder climates may have a lesser flavor. Factors such as climate, season, and soil composition may affect the aromatic oils present, and this effect may be greater than the differences between the various species of plants. Among the chemical compounds contributing to the flavour are carvacrol, thymol, limonene, pinene, ocimene, and caryophyllene. Oregano's most prominent modern use is as the staple herb of Italian-American cuisine. Its popularity
Oregano, Thyme May Hold the Cure for Wasting Syndrome Disease [SEP] Patrick Edward McGovern // including Lewis lung carcinoma, colon cancer (adenocarcinoma), Kaposi's sarcoma (connective tissue), uveal melanoma, hepatoma, ascitic liver tumor, ovarian cancer, pancreatic cancer, neuroblastoma, and myeloid leukemia. Analyses of some of the earliest wine from the tomb of Scorpion I at Abydos, Egypt Ancient Egypt, dated to ca. 3150 B.C., has revealed the presence of a host of herbal additives, including herbs—savory ("Satureja"), "Artemisia seibeni" (a member of the wormwood family), blue tansy ("Tanacetum annuum"), balm ("Melissa"), senna ("Cassia"), coriander ("Coriandrum"), germander ("Teucrium"), mint ("Mentha"), sage ("Salvia"), and/or thyme ("Thymus/Thymbra"). Some active compounds in these plants have also shown to have "in
Oregano, Thyme May Hold the Cure for Wasting Syndrome Disease [SEP] De Materia Medica // saffron, sesame, squirting cucumber (elaterium), starch, stavesacre (delphinium), storax, stramonium, sugar, terebinth, thyme, white hellebore, white horehound, and couch grass — the last still used as a demulcent diuretic." She notes that medicines such as wormwood, juniper, ginger, and calamine also remain in use, while "Chinese and Indian physicians continue to use liquorice". She observes that the many drugs listed to reduce the spleen may be explained by the frequency of malaria in his time. Dioscorides lists drugs for women to cause abortion and to treat urinary tract infection; palliatives for toothache, such as colocynth, and others for intestinal pains;
Lose weight with skin cream? Fat chance, says U.S. govt. [SEP] Calorad // Arthritis, and Fibromyalgia all conducted with Type II hydrolyzed collagen (collagen hydrolysate), the primary ingredient in Calorad. The manufacturer claims that 40% of subjects will lose weight within 1 month, 75% after 2 months and 87% after 3 months. The distributors of the product offer a 30-day satisfaction guarantee. In support of these claims, the distributing companies cite a clinical study of Calorad (also unpublished and non-peer reviewed) by Joel B. Lao. Lao is a Doctor of Internal Medicine, and medical consultant in the Philippines who studied the effects of Calorad and its effect on overweight and/or obese individuals. The
Lose weight with skin cream? Fat chance, says U.S. govt. [SEP] Scott I Kahan // S, Freedhoff Y. Interventions to reduce or modify dietary fat reduce cardiovascular events. Ann Intern Med. 2012;156(2):JC1-4,JC15. 7. Cheskin LJ, Margolick J, Kahan S, Mitola AH, Poddar KH, Nilles T, et al. Effect of nutritional supplements onimmune function and body weight in malnourished adults. Nutr Metab Insts. 2010;3:25-35. 8. Cheskin LJ, Kahan S, Geller G. Weight-based stigma and physician bias. AMA Journal of Ethics. April 2010;12(4):258-262. Commentary PBS: “The Cost of Obesity in America.” June 25, 2010. National Public Radio (NPR): "FDA Approves First New Weight-Loss Drug in More Than a Decade." June 27, 2012. HealthDay: "Docs Aren't Coaching Overweight
Lose weight with skin cream? Fat chance, says U.S. govt. [SEP] Fat Chance (Lesléa Newman novel) // Fat Chance (Lesléa Newman novel) Fat Chance is a 1994 young adult novel written by Lesléa Newman. The book centers on a 13-year-old girl named Judi Liebowitz, who goes on a bulimic diet to try to lose weight. The novel was published by Putnam Press in 1994–2004 and by Scholastic from 2004–present. Judi Liebowitz wants to be the thinnest girl in eighth grade and have a boyfriend. She's convinced that if only she had "creamy thighs and amazing cheekbones that look like I'm always sipping through a straw" her best friend Monica wouldn't have stolen the boy she had a
Lose weight with skin cream? Fat chance, says U.S. govt. [SEP] Anti-aging cream // Anti-aging cream Anti-aging creams are predominantly moisturiser-based cosmeceutical skin care products marketed with the promise of making the consumer look younger by reducing, masking or preventing signs of skin aging. These signs are laxity (sagging), rhytids (wrinkles), and photoaging, which includes erythema (redness), dyspigmentation (brown discolorations), solar elastosis (yellowing), keratoses (abnormal growths), and poor texture. Despite great demand, many anti-aging products and treatments have not been proven to give lasting or major positive effects. One study found that the best performing creams reduced wrinkles by less than 10% over 12 weeks, which is not noticeable to the human eye. Another
Lose weight with skin cream? Fat chance, says U.S. govt. [SEP] Anti-aging supplements // demand, many such products and treatments have not been proven to give lasting or major positive effects. One study found that the best performing creams reduced wrinkles by less than 10% over 12 weeks which is not noticeable to the human eye. Another study found that cheap moisturizers were as effective as high-priced anti-wrinkle creams. One published study, funded by Boots, found that one of Boots' products reduced wrinkles. Traditionally, anti-aging creams have been marketed towards women, but products specifically targeting men are increasingly common. The belief in the benefits of anti-aging creams, along with their use, should be met
Lose weight with skin cream? Fat chance, says U.S. govt. [SEP] Weight loss // cheaper, more reliable, or less painful. These include books, DVDs, CDs, cremes, lotions, pills, rings and earrings, body wraps, body belts and other materials, fitness centers, clinics, personal coaches, weight loss groups, and food products and supplements. In 2008 between US$33 billion and $55 billion was spent annually in the US on weight-loss products and services, including medical procedures and pharmaceuticals, with weight-loss centers taking between 6 and 12 percent of total annual expenditure. Over $1.6 billion a year was spent on weight-loss supplements. About 70 percent of Americans' dieting attempts are of a self-help nature. In Western Europe, sales
Lose weight with skin cream? Fat chance, says U.S. govt. [SEP] Orlistat // it has been listed as an S3 medication -- available from a pharmacist without a prescription -- since 2000. Orlistat is used for the treatment of obesity. The amount of weight loss achieved with orlistat varies. In one-year clinical trials, between 35.5% and 54.8% of subjects achieved a 5% or greater decrease in body mass, although not all of this mass was necessarily fat. Between 16.4% and 24.8% achieved at least a 10% decrease in body fat. After orlistat was stopped, a significant number of subjects regained weight—up to 35% of the weight they had lost. It reduces the incidence
Lose weight with skin cream? Fat chance, says U.S. govt. [SEP] Oleoyl-estrone // the principal researches, who is also the holder of a 1998 U.S. patent () for fatty acid esters of estrone, including OE, in relation to fat loss. The group studied the effects of oral OE on Marià Alemany who was morbidly obese. It was shown for the first time to be effective at producing fat loss in a human and also a maintenance (and increase) of weight loss in two-month rest periods in between three-week dosing periods. This was achieved with no prescribed dietary restrictions. OE was licensed to Manhattan Pharmaceuticals in 2002. An Investigational New Drug application was accepted
Lose weight with skin cream? Fat chance, says U.S. govt. [SEP] Slip-Slop-Slap // decreased. However, the incidence of melanoma, the most lethal form of skin cancer, has increased. An epidemiological study published in 2002 concluded that skin cancer increases could not be associated with the use of sun creams, and recommended continued use of the current campaigns as a means to reduce melanoma risk. The experience of more than 25 years of skin cancer prevention in Australia shows broad-based multifaceted public education programs can improve a population's sun protective behaviors and reducing sunburn, a short-term marker of skin cancer risk. Furthermore, declining skin cancer incidence in younger cohorts and economic assessment show skin
Lose weight with skin cream? Fat chance, says U.S. govt. [SEP] Orlistat // follow a low-fat, reduced-calorie diet. Oily stools and flatulence can be controlled by reducing the dietary fat content to somewhere in the region of 15 grams per meal. The manual for Alli makes it clear that orlistat treatment involves aversion therapy, encouraging the user to associate eating fat with unpleasant treatment effects. Side effects are most severe when beginning therapy and may decrease in frequency with time; It has also been suggested that the decrease in side effects over time may be associated with long-term compliance with a low-fat diet. On 26 May 2010, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration
San Antonio has seen "67% growth" in water customers "in the last 25 years, 0% more water used. [SEP] Edwards Aquifer // that installment will damage the natural system’s ability to recharge the Edwards Aquifer and retain soil moisture. Further, whether or not the city needs additional supply is in question, as projected increase in water demand is speculated to present commercial expansion, not San Antonio's municipal population demand. Environmental groups, such as the Sierra Club, suggest the project is allocating funds to an unsustainable solution, and that San Antonio should instead be "investing in alternative and innovative resources that are less expensive, less energy-intensive, and locally accessible." Encompassing an area of 8 counties across south-central Texas including the City of San
San Antonio has seen "67% growth" in water customers "in the last 25 years, 0% more water used. [SEP] Edwards Aquifer // be $88/mnth; this would place San Antonio at the lowest rate for water in any major Texan city. The water is provided through over 3,400 leases with private landowners drawing from the Caririzo and Simsboro aquifers. In an effort to protect the ratepayer (i.e. San Antonio citizens), the project proposes an undetermined lifeline rate. Any water that fails to be delivered (i.e. shortages, contamination) will be compensated by Blue Water Systems, L.P and not at the expense of the ratepayer. This project is projected to promote job growth and prosperity surrounding the city, as the supply will withstand San Antonio’s
San Antonio has seen "67% growth" in water customers "in the last 25 years, 0% more water used. [SEP] Edwards Aquifer // system that serves the eight counties of the San Antonio metropolitan area. A total of 92 water wells with a daily pumpage rate of 203.7 million gallons supply water to SAWS’ customers. In addition to the 2.3 million San Antonio residents are the communities of New Braunfels and San Marcos that depend on the aquifer for clean drinking water. Farming and ranching communities are other significant dependents of the aquifer. From the 1930s to the 1980s, withdrawals have quadrupled with over half of the current withdrawals serving municipal water purposes while the remaining goes to agricultural needs. More than 50,000
San Antonio has seen "67% growth" in water customers "in the last 25 years, 0% more water used. [SEP] San Antonio Water System // over (merged with) another local water utility - BexarMet. San Antonio Water System The San Antonio Water System (SAWS) is the largest drinking water and sewage utility in Bexar County, Texas, USA. Based in the Midtown Brackenridge district of San Antonio, SAWS draws water from the Edwards Aquifer to service its customers in all 8 counties of the Greater San Antonio metropolitan area. It is owned by the City of San Antonio. SAWS was formed on May 19, 1992 as a result of a merger of three separate entities: the City Water Board, the City Wastewater Department, and the Alamo
San Antonio has seen "67% growth" in water customers "in the last 25 years, 0% more water used. [SEP] Aquifer storage and recovery // ranked last, or most vulnerable, and El Paso ranked as 10th-worst, though other Texas cities made the list. San Antonio stores drinking water in its Carrizo ASR facility, which contains more than 91,000 acre-feet of water and has a maximum capacity of 120,000 acre-feet. A 2010 Texas Water Development Board (TWDB) survey of Texas water utilities found four primary objections to ASR in other parts of Texas: legal and physical limitations, the quality of the recovered water, cost-effectiveness and the potential for other pumpers to capture the utility’s stored water. In South Australia, the City of Salisbury in northern Adelaide
San Antonio has seen "67% growth" in water customers "in the last 25 years, 0% more water used. [SEP] San Antonio // rolling terrain is dotted with oak trees, forested land, mesquite, and cacti; and it sits on the Balcones Escarpment. Its altitude is above sea level. The city's primary source of drinking water is the Edwards Aquifer. Impounded in 1962 and 1969, respectively, Victor Braunig Lake and Calaveras Lake were among the first reservoirs in the country built to use recycled treated wastewater for power plant cooling, reducing the amount of groundwater needed for electrical generation. Downtown San Antonio, the city and metro area's urban core, encompasses many of the city's famous structures, attractions, and businesses. The central business district is
San Antonio has seen "67% growth" in water customers "in the last 25 years, 0% more water used. [SEP] San Antonio Water System // San Antonio Water System The San Antonio Water System (SAWS) is the largest drinking water and sewage utility in Bexar County, Texas, USA. Based in the Midtown Brackenridge district of San Antonio, SAWS draws water from the Edwards Aquifer to service its customers in all 8 counties of the Greater San Antonio metropolitan area. It is owned by the City of San Antonio. SAWS was formed on May 19, 1992 as a result of a merger of three separate entities: the City Water Board, the City Wastewater Department, and the Alamo Water Conservation and Reuse District. In 2012, SAWS took
San Antonio has seen "67% growth" in water customers "in the last 25 years, 0% more water used. [SEP] Edwards Aquifer // the Edwards Aquifer Act was upheld. In an effort to reduce San Antonio’s dependency on the solitary supply of the Edward’s Aquifer, the San Antonio Water System (SAWS) has proposed a water supply pipeline, the Vista Ridge, extending 82,000 ft from Burleson County to San Antonio. SAWS reports that the Vista Ridge pipeline, running 54” in diameter, will supply as much as 50,000 ac-ft of water per year for 30 years, upon the project’s estimated completion in 2019. This will increase the city’s current water supply by 20%. By 2020, SAWS estimates the average San Antonio residential water bill to
San Antonio has seen "67% growth" in water customers "in the last 25 years, 0% more water used. [SEP] Austin, Texas // Water, the city's water utility, has the capacity to process up to 300 million gallons of water per day, but the elevated level of turbidity reduced output to only 105 million gallons per day; Austin residents consumed an average of 120 million gallons of water per day, thus the infrastructure was not able to keep up with demand. According to the 2010 United States Census, the racial composition of Austin is 68.3% White (48.7% Non-Hispanic Whites), 35.1% Hispanic or Latino (29.1% Mexican, 0.5% Puerto Rican, 0.4% Cuban, 5.1% Other), 8.1% African American, 6.3% Asian (1.9% Indian, 1.5% Chinese, 1.0% Vietnamese,
San Antonio has seen "67% growth" in water customers "in the last 25 years, 0% more water used. [SEP] Wichita Falls, Texas // reuse system will put five million gallons [of water] back in the distribution system each day. The city saves five million gallons from being taken out of the lake." Within 7 months, the DPR produced 1 billion gallons of source water. As of the census of 2000, 104,197 people, 37,970 households, and 24,984 families resided in the city. The population density was . The 41,916 housing units averaged . The racial makeup of the city was 75.1% White, 12.4% African American, 0.9% Native American, 2.2% Asian, 0.1% Pacific Islander, 6.4% from other races, and 3.0% from two or more races.
Hal Turner Radio Show Says the coronavirus is “a MILITARY BIO-WEAPON Developed by China's Army.” [SEP] SARS conspiracy theory // However, independent labs concluded these claims to be premature since the SARS virus is a coronavirus, whereas measles and mumps are paramyxoviruses. The primary differences between a coronavirus and a parmyxovirus are in their structures and method of infection, thus making it implausible for a coronavirus to have been created from two paramyxoviruses. The widespread reporting of claims by Kolesnokov and Filatov caused controversy in many Chinese internet discussion boards and chat rooms. Many Chinese believed that the SARS virus could be a biological weapon manufactured by the United States, which perceived China's rise as a potential threat to its
Hal Turner Radio Show Says the coronavirus is “a MILITARY BIO-WEAPON Developed by China's Army.” [SEP] SARS conspiracy theory // has been made globally available. Naysayers insist there has been no evidence found of genetic engineering in the genome. The SARS coronavirus is novel, they say, but this only implies it has mutated or was previously undiscovered, not that it is genetically engineered. Epidemiologists in support of the theory say it implies artificial introduction of the disease into the population. Many disregard the Chinese and Russian scientists' research as merely propaganda and an impossibility. Coronaviruses similar to SARS have been found in bats in China, suggesting they may be their natural reservoir. However scientists report that the genome of the
Hal Turner Radio Show Says the coronavirus is “a MILITARY BIO-WEAPON Developed by China's Army.” [SEP] SARS coronavirus // coronaviruses in Chinese bats. Phylogenetic analysis of these viruses indicated a high probability that SARS coronavirus originated in bats and spread to humans either directly or through animals held in Chinese markets. The bats did not show any visible signs of disease, but are the likely natural reservoirs of SARS-like coronaviruses. In late 2006, scientists from the Chinese Centre for Disease Control and Prevention of Hong Kong University and the Guangzhou Centre for Disease Control and Prevention established a genetic link between the SARS coronavirus appearing in civets and humans, confirming claims that the disease had jumped across species. The
Hal Turner Radio Show Says the coronavirus is “a MILITARY BIO-WEAPON Developed by China's Army.” [SEP] Coronavirus // of a vaccine against the disease "since [the spike protein] appears to be recognized by the immune system of the host." Following the high-profile publicity of SARS outbreaks, there has been a renewed interest in coronaviruses among virologists. For many years, scientists knew about only two human coronaviruses (HCoV-229E and HCoV-OC43). The discovery of SARS-CoV added a third human coronavirus. By the end of 2004, three independent research labs reported the discovery of a fourth human coronavirus. It has been named NL63, NL, and the New Haven coronavirus by different research groups. The three labs are still arguing over which
Hal Turner Radio Show Says the coronavirus is “a MILITARY BIO-WEAPON Developed by China's Army.” [SEP] SARS coronavirus // mapping the genetic sequence of a coronavirus believed to be linked to SARS. The team was led by Dr. Marco Marra and worked in collaboration with the British Columbia Centre for Disease Control and the National Microbiology Laboratory in Winnipeg, Manitoba, using samples from infected patients in Toronto. The map, hailed by the WHO as an important step forward in fighting SARS, is shared with scientists worldwide via the GSC website (see below). Dr. Donald Low of Mount Sinai Hospital in Toronto described the discovery as having been made with "unprecedented speed". The sequence of the SARS coronavirus has since
Hal Turner Radio Show Says the coronavirus is “a MILITARY BIO-WEAPON Developed by China's Army.” [SEP] Oncolytic virus // be approved by a regulatory agency was a genetically modified adenovirus named H101 by Shanghai Sunway Biotech. It gained regulatory approval in 2005 from China's State Food and Drug Administration (SFDA) for the treatment of head and neck cancer. Sunway's H101 and the very similar Onyx-15 have been engineered to remove a viral defense mechanism that interacts with a normal human gene "p53", which is very frequently dysregulated in cancer cells. Despite the promises of early "in vivo" lab work, these viruses do not specifically infect cancer cells, but they still kill cancer cells preferentially. While overall survival rates are
Hal Turner Radio Show Says the coronavirus is “a MILITARY BIO-WEAPON Developed by China's Army.” [SEP] Yuen Kwok-yung // being honoured as "Asian heroes of the year" in April by Time Asia Magazine [2,3,4]. Subsequently, he found the natural reservoir of SARS coronavirus like virus in Chinese horseshoe bat and renewed the interest of bats as the source of novel microbes causing emerging infectious diseases [5]. His research laboratory has also identified over 40 new viruses, 9 bacteria, 2 fungi and 2 parasites of which some are suspected or confirmed pathogens: coronavirus HKU1 [6], bat coronavirus HKU2 to 13 [7,8,9], bovine and porcine hokovirus [10] and Laribacter hongkongensis in fish and human [11,12]. Yuen is currently the Chair of
Hal Turner Radio Show Says the coronavirus is “a MILITARY BIO-WEAPON Developed by China's Army.” [SEP] CIH (computer virus) // have written the virus as a challenge against bold claims of antiviral efficiency by antivirus software developers. Chen stated that after the virus was spread across Tatung University by classmates, he apologized to the school and made an antivirus program available for public download; the antivirus program was co-authored with Weng Shi-hao (翁世豪), a student at Tamkang University. Prosecutors in Taiwan could not charge Chen at the time because no victims came forward with a lawsuit. These events led to new computer crime legislation in Taiwan. The name "Chernobyl Virus" was coined some time after the virus was already well
Hal Turner Radio Show Says the coronavirus is “a MILITARY BIO-WEAPON Developed by China's Army.” [SEP] Severe acute respiratory syndrome // strain of a particular virus known as a coronavirus. This strain has all the genetic building blocks of the type that triggered the global outbreak of SARS in 2002." The research was "published in the journal "Public Library of Science Pathogens"" and "was led by Shi Zheng-Li and Cui Jie of the Wuhan Institute of Virology, China... In their paper, the Chinese team warn that another deadly outbreak of SARS could emerge at any time. As they point out, the cave where they discovered their strain is only a kilometre from the nearest village." The World Health Organization declared severe
Hal Turner Radio Show Says the coronavirus is “a MILITARY BIO-WEAPON Developed by China's Army.” [SEP] Coronavirus // in a small number of nucleotides. In 2003, following the outbreak of Severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) which had begun the prior year in Asia, and secondary cases elsewhere in the world, the World Health Organization (WHO) issued a press release stating that a novel coronavirus identified by a number of laboratories was the causative agent for SARS. The virus was officially named the SARS coronavirus (SARS-CoV). The epidemic resulted in over 8,000 infections, about 10% of which resulted in death. X-ray crystallography studies performed at the Advanced Light Source of Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory have begun to give hope
Hard questions about chemo [SEP] Chemotherapy // are used to treat some cases of non-melanoma skin cancer. If the cancer has central nervous system involvement, or with meningeal disease, intrathecal chemotherapy may be administered. Chemotherapeutic techniques have a range of side-effects that depend on the type of medications used. The most common medications affect mainly the fast-dividing cells of the body, such as blood cells and the cells lining the mouth, stomach, and intestines. Chemotherapy-related toxicities can occur acutely after administration, within hours or days, or chronically, from weeks to years. Virtually all chemotherapeutic regimens can cause depression of the immune system, often by paralysing the bone
Hard questions about chemo [SEP] Post-chemotherapy cognitive impairment // Survivors often report difficulty multitasking, comprehending what they have just read, following the thread of a conversation, and retrieving words. Breast cancer survivors who were treated with chemotherapy may find it harder to perform tasks than survivors whose treatment was surgical. One study demonstrated that, a year after treatment, the brains of cancer survivors treated with chemotherapy (after surgery) had physically shrunk while those of people only treated surgically had not. Post-chemotherapy cognitive impairment comes as a surprise to many cancer survivors. Often, survivors think their lives will return to normal when the cancer is gone, only to find that
Hard questions about chemo [SEP] Simon O'Donnell // me the bi-op was malignant... [Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma] John found it hard to tell me and I found it hard to accept... I had to ring Mum and Dad in Deniliquin to tell them there was some bad news. Somehow you float through it even though you are scared s---less... The hardest part is the initial part, once you know what's in front of you it gets better. I don't want to trivialise cancer in any way. You have to let the emotion out then sit down and become realistic ... I never asked if my life was in the balance.
Hard questions about chemo [SEP] Post-chemotherapy cognitive impairment // survivors in the population, many of whom may have been treated with aggressive dosing of chemotherapeutic agents, or with chemotherapy as an adjuvant to other forms of treatment. In some patients, fear of PCCI can impact treatment decisions. The magnitude of chemotherapy-related cognitive changes and their impact on the activities of daily living are uncertain. The systems of the body most affected by chemotherapy drugs include visual and semantic memory, attention and motor coordination. These effects can impair a chemotherapy patient's ability to understand and make decisions regarding treatment, perform in school or employment and can reduce quality of life.
Hard questions about chemo [SEP] Autologous immune enhancement therapy // and destruction. While surgery and/or chemo- and radiotherapies are various treatment modalities available, still in many cases they don’t offer a permanent cure. Another major point to be addressed about this killer disease is the relapse rate which is very high. Researchers have found that these cells mainly target the cancer cells and not the healthy cells whereas in chemotherapy and radiotherapy the healthy cells are also getting destroyed. Cancer cells are formed in our body almost every day but we are not affected by them. This is because they are immediately destroyed by the body's immune system. The immune
Hard questions about chemo [SEP] Small-cell carcinoma // RT has been shown to improve survival in LS-SCLC. Exceptionally high objective initial response rates (RR) of between 60% and 90% are seen in LS-SCLC using chemotherapy alone, with between 45% and 75% of individuals showing a "complete response" (CR), which is defined as the disappearance of all radiological and clinical signs of tumor. However, relapse rate remains high, and median survival is only 18 to 24 months. Because SCLC usually metastasizes widely very early on in the natural history of the tumor, and because nearly all cases respond dramatically to chemotherapy and/or radiotherapy, there has been little role for
Hard questions about chemo [SEP] Chemotherapy // the exception; with these drugs, sensation may continue to deteriorate for several months after the end of treatment. Some CIPN appears to be irreversible. Pain can often be managed with drug or other treatment but the numbness is usually resistant to treatment. Some people receiving chemotherapy report fatigue or non-specific neurocognitive problems, such as an inability to concentrate; this is sometimes called post-chemotherapy cognitive impairment, referred to as "chemo brain" in popular and social media. In particularly large tumors and cancers with high white cell counts, such as lymphomas, teratomas, and some leukemias, some people develop tumor lysis syndrome. The
Hard questions about chemo [SEP] Childhood cancer // system metastasis or from side effects of cancer treatments such as chemotherapy and radiation therapy. Studies have shown that chemo and radiation therapies may damage brain white matter and disrupt brain activity. The most common cancers in children are (childhood) leukemia (32%), brain tumors (18%), and lymphomas (11%). In 2005, 4.1 of every 100,000 young people under 20 years of age in the U.S. were diagnosed with leukemia, and 0.8 per 100,000 died from it. The number of new cases was highest among the 1–4 age group, but the number of deaths was highest among the 10–14 age group. In
Hard questions about chemo [SEP] Brain metastasis // survival compared to whole brain irradiation alone. Therefore, in patients with only one metastatic brain lesion and controlled or limited systemic disease, a life expectancy of at least 3 months and a good performance status might be expected. Chemotherapy is rarely used for the treatment of brain metastases, as chemotherapeutic agents penetrate the blood brain barrier poorly. However, some cancers such as lymphomas, small cell lung carcinomas (SCLC) and breast cancer may be highly chemosensitive and chemotherapy may be used to treat extracranial sites of metastatic disease in these cancers. The effectiveness and safety of using chemotherapy to treat a
Hard questions about chemo [SEP] Post-chemotherapy cognitive impairment // primarily in breast cancer survivor and support groups as affecting a subset of individuals treated with chemotherapy, who attributed it to the effects of the medication taken to treat their cancers. The term "chemobrain" appears in publications at least as early as 1997. Post-chemotherapy cognitive impairment Post-chemotherapy cognitive impairment (PCCI) (also known in the scientific community as "CRCIs or Chemotherapy-Related Cognitive Impairments" and in lay terms as chemotherapy-induced cognitive dysfunction or impairment, chemo brain, or chemo fog) describes the cognitive impairment that can result from chemotherapy treatment. Approximately 20–30% of people who undergo chemotherapy experience some level of post-chemotherapy cognitive
Gene test could spare women from unnecessary radiation [SEP] Prevent Breast Cancer // the next ten years will again be calculated. Professor Evans and his team developed a gene test in October 2017 to provide more accurate risk information to families specifically with the BRCA gene mutation. The BRCA1 and BRCA2 gene mutations are known to increase the risk of breast cancer in patients between 45 and 90 per cent. The test analysed 18 genetic variants Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms – SNPs in blood or saliva across 1,400 women who carried the BRCA high-risk gene. Researchers believe the test could reduce the number of pre-emptive mastectomies in the UK from 50 to 36 per
Gene test could spare women from unnecessary radiation [SEP] Predictive medicine // have been published in scientific literature that show associations between specific genetic variants in a person's genetic code and a specific disease. Association and correlation studies have found that a female individual with a mutation in the BRCA1 gene has a 65% cumulative risk of breast cancer. Additionally, new tests from Genetic Technologies LTD and Phenogen Sciences Inc. comparing non-coding DNA to a woman's lifetime exposure to estrogen can now determine a woman's probability of developing estrogen positive breast cancer also known as sporadic breast cancer (the most prevalent form of breast cancer). Genetic variants in the Factor V gene
Gene test could spare women from unnecessary radiation [SEP] Downwinders // radionuclides that may be passed through the breast milk, causing some women who are downwinders to be reluctant to breastfeed their children. While reducing the radioactive intake of their infants is an important preventative measure, it denies women the opportunity to engage a preventative measure for their own health; i.e. breastfeeding has been widely documented as a practice that can reduce women's risk of developing breast cancer. By refraining from breastfeeding, women downwinders' risks of breast cancer incidence becomes even more elevated. Evidence about radiation-related pregnancy and birth outcomes comes from studies of nuclear bomb and test site survivors and
Gene test could spare women from unnecessary radiation [SEP] Prevent Breast Cancer // distinct pillars: Gene Research – Examining how changes and mutations in genes can affect an individual’s risk of developing breast cancer Early Detection & Improved Screening – Identifying new and unique screening methods to ensure early and accurate diagnoses Preventative Drug Research – Investigating drugs that can be used as a preventative measure to reduce an individual’s risk of developing breast cancer Diet & Lifestyle – Research into lifestyle factors that contribute to breast cancer risk and how diet and exercise can reduce this. The PROCAS1 recruited over 58,000 women and was the largest recruiting study in the UK. It
Gene test could spare women from unnecessary radiation [SEP] Breast cancer screening // include silicone oil and polyacrylamide gel. Genetic testing does not detect cancers, but may reveal a propensity to develop cancer. Women who are known to have a higher risk of developing breast cancer usually undertake more aggressive screening programs. A clinical practice guideline by the US Preventive Services Task Force recommends against routine referral for genetic counseling or routine testing for BRCA mutations, on fair evidence that the harms outweigh the benefits. It also encourages a referral for counseling and testing in women who have a family history that indicates they have an increased risk of a BRCA mutation, on
Gene test could spare women from unnecessary radiation [SEP] Prevent Breast Cancer // was led by Prevent Breast Cancer Researcher, Professor of Genetics, Gareth Evans. The study evaluated the feasibility of introducing personalised breast cancer risk estimation into the NHS Breast Screening programme through the collection of information on breast cancer risk factors. Prevent Breast Cancer funded the collection of saliva samples and DNA extraction from 10,000 women on the study and testing genetic fragments (SNPs) for key information. The information for each woman was collated in order to provide a risk score. PROCAS 2 launched in October 2017 and will involve a further 18,600 women, whose risk of developing the disease within
Gene test could spare women from unnecessary radiation [SEP] ENU // female ["+"/"+"]). Thus with any progeny carrying a mutation induced by radiation at one of the 7 loci, would exhibit the mutant phenotype in the first generation itself. This approach, the specific locus test (SLT) allowed Russell to study a wide range of specific mutations and to calculate the mutation rates induced by radiations. In addition to studying the effect of radiation for SLT, Russell et al. were also interested in studying the effect of chemical mutagens such as procarbazine and ethylnitrosourea for SLT. At that time, procarbazine was the most potent chemical mutagen known to cause a significant spermatogonial
Gene test could spare women from unnecessary radiation [SEP] Personalized medicine // people such as David Flockhart, it was discovered that women with certain mutation in their CYP2D6 gene, a gene that encodes the metabolizing enzyme, were not able to efficiently break down Tamoxifen, making it an ineffective treatment for their cancer. Since then, women are now genotyped for those specific mutations, so that immediately these women can have the most effective treatment therapy. Screening for these mutations is carried out via high-throughput screening or phenotypic screening. Several drug discovery and pharmaceutical companies are currently utilizing these technologies to not only advance the study of personalised medicine, but also to amplify genetic
Gene test could spare women from unnecessary radiation [SEP] Ovarian cancer // This is often done after completion of childbearing years. This reduces the chances of developing both breast cancer (by around 50%) and ovarian cancer (by about 96%) in people at high risk. Women with "BRCA" gene mutations usually also have their Fallopian tubes removed at the same time (salpingo-oophorectomy), since they also have an increased risk of Fallopian tube cancer. However, these statistics may overestimate the risk reduction because of how they have been studied. People with a significant family history for ovarian cancer are often referred to a genetic counselor to see if testing for BRCA mutations would be
Gene test could spare women from unnecessary radiation [SEP] American Jewish Congress // revealing that Ashkenazi Jewish women have higher than average frequencies of gene mutations predisposing them to breast and ovarian cancer. The 1996 conference, Understanding the Genetics of Breast Cancer: Implications for Treatment, Policy and Advocacy, organized by national CWE, has been duplicated by AJCongress regions nationwide. In 2000, CWE presented Cancer Genetics in the Ashkenazi Community, to explore medical breakthroughs since the first conference as well as new developments in genetic testing. This follow-up conference was distinctly more upbeat than its predecessor, both in terms of medical preventive measures and in regard to legislation to ensure privacy and eliminate discrimination
Gov. Kelly:  Kansas psychiatric hospital unit needs changes. [SEP] Topeka State Hospital // a music and activity therapist in the general hospital population. One of the patients at Topeka State Hospital was Kenneth D. Waddell, who had been placed in the custody of state mental health authorities after having been found not guilty by reason of insanity for the charge of aggravated battery. Waddell was initially placed in the Larned State Security Hospital, but on April 1, 1987, he was transferred to the Topeka State Hospital where he was placed in the Adult Forensic Ward (referred to as the "AWL unit"), which was a special unit secluded from the other units because it
Gov. Kelly:  Kansas psychiatric hospital unit needs changes. [SEP] Bridgewater State Hospital // of dispersing the mentally ill from normal human experience . 2017 A major reform initiative by Massachusetts Governor Charlie Baker replaced management of the hospital and 4/5ths of the staff, granted a significant amount of turnaround funding, removed uniformed guards, and closed the "intensive treatment" unit where forced restraints and solitary confinement were used. After about five months with a new system of conflict prevention and resolution, a visiting "Boston Globe" reporter said that the institution felt more like a hospital than a scary prison after the reform. 2014 A Civil lawsuit was settled out of court regarding a patient's
Gov. Kelly:  Kansas psychiatric hospital unit needs changes. [SEP] KSB Hospital // included a two-stall ambulance garage. The ER had four treatment bays, two trauma bays and a new x-ray room. The spring of 1990 brought a newly remodeled cafeteria and vending machine area. In 1991, the psychiatry unit was downsized from 26 beds to 16 beds and moved from 3rd floor west to 2nd floor east. The new psychiatry unit featured improved safety and security features for patients and employees, and included a new eating area, therapy facilities, video monitoring, outside patio, patient lounge, and an isolation room. By 1991, the Medical Arts Clinic, founded by Dr. E. S. Murphy and
Gov. Kelly:  Kansas psychiatric hospital unit needs changes. [SEP] Two Rivers Psychiatric Hospital // private, free-standing psychiatric hospitals in the Kansas City area, the other being the Research Psychiatric Center. In September 2008 the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) terminated Two Rivers' participation in Medicare. United Health appealed the decision and eventually agreed to a settlement requiring Two Rivers to retain an outside monitor for six months. Two Rivers Psychiatric Hospital Two Rivers Behavioral Health System is a psychiatric hospital located in Kansas City, Missouri. Opened in October 1986, the facility is operated as a private, for-profit, behavioral health hospital and is owned by Universal Health Services. Two Rivers Behavioral Health System
Gov. Kelly:  Kansas psychiatric hospital unit needs changes. [SEP] Topeka State Hospital // of law. The sole issue on appeal was whether that ruling was proper. They held that it was not, and remanded the case for further proceedings. In 1988, the hospital lost its accreditation to receive federal Medicare and Medicaid payments. The Health Care Financing Administration determined that the State had omitted two patients from its inspection of care review at the hospital, which appealed and lost. By the 1990s, the mental health movement was away from the hospital model and toward community-based programs. Partly because the community-based model appeared effective but mostly because it was cheaper, the Kansas Legislature decided
Gov. Kelly:  Kansas psychiatric hospital unit needs changes. [SEP] University of Missouri Health Care // operating video right at a patient’s bedside. Missouri Psychiatric Center, formerly known as Mid-Missouri Mental Health Center, offers short-term inpatient and outpatient treatment services for adults, adolescents and children with 57 inpatient beds. A 13-bed unit serves children and adolescents, while the remaining 44 beds are divided into two adult units. MUPC also offers an emergency room assessment unit to help with crisis stabilization and intake and discharge planning for patients. Psychiatrists also provide outpatient psychiatry care at MU Health Care's South Providence Medical Building, which opened in January 2015. Missouri Rehabilitation Center (MRC) was a 79-bed acute care hospital
Gov. Kelly:  Kansas psychiatric hospital unit needs changes. [SEP] Patuxent Institution // Parole and Probation. Now privatized, the program delivers a four-month treatment cycle to male and female inmates with significant substance abuse histories who are preparing for parole or mandatory release. In 2000, the Mental Health Transition Unit, which was designed to augment the CMHC-J, was established at Patuxent Institution. This unit provides evaluation and support to inmates referred from DOC institutions who have mental health histories and who are scheduled for release to the community. A Step-Down Mental Health Unit, which is currently consolidated under the CMHC-J umbrella, was also developed in 2000 to serve inmates who have histories of
Gov. Kelly:  Kansas psychiatric hospital unit needs changes. [SEP] Jim Ward (Kansas politician) // number of people who get health care." In 2015, Ward called for an audit of the Kansas Department for Children and Families after several children died in state custody. He spoke to the Kansas Legislative Post Audit Committee on July 29, 2015: “In the last couple of years, I’ve been getting more and more and more concerns presented to me about supervision not being done, placements being changed fairly radically quickly, and care plans not being followed through with." Later in 2015, Ward requested another audit of DCF on the grounds that the agency was discriminating against same-sex couples who
Gov. Kelly:  Kansas psychiatric hospital unit needs changes. [SEP] Two Rivers Psychiatric Hospital // Two Rivers Psychiatric Hospital Two Rivers Behavioral Health System is a psychiatric hospital located in Kansas City, Missouri. Opened in October 1986, the facility is operated as a private, for-profit, behavioral health hospital and is owned by Universal Health Services. Two Rivers Behavioral Health System has a broad range of in-patient, partial hospitalization, and intensive outpatient services comprising the following units or programs: The National Center for Trauma-Based Disorders has both trauma stabilization and trauma treatment programs as well as a program for those with trauma and co-occurring eating disorders and addictions. Two Rivers Psychiatric Hospitals is one of two
Gov. Kelly:  Kansas psychiatric hospital unit needs changes. [SEP] Mendota Mental Health Institute // the "Madison model". It is the only psychiatric facility in Wisconsin to have received the award. By 1975, patient populations had dropped to 1/3 capacity at Mendota MHI and a sister facility, Winnebago Mental Health Institute, near Oshkosh and politicians made efforts to close one of the Institutes. Governor Patrick Lucey (D) urged the Legislature to close Winnebago and Democrats in the State Assembly Finance committee supported that effort. However, Republicans in the State Senate voted to close the Mendota facility instead. Governor Lucey threatened to veto a budget that included funding for both facilities, but the Legislature ended up
Jay Hottinger Says Wendy’s founder "Dave Thomas left the state literally on his deathbed to avoid the estate tax. [SEP] Dave Thomas (businessman) // Dave Thomas (businessman) Rex David Thomas (July 2, 1932 – January 8, 2002) was an American businessman and philanthropist. Thomas was the founder and chief executive officer of Wendy's, a fast-food restaurant chain specializing in hamburgers. He is also known for appearing in more than 800 commercial advertisements for the chain from 1989 to 2002, more than any other company founder in television history. Thomas was born on July 2, 1932 in Atlantic City, New Jersey to a young unmarried woman he never knew. He was adopted at six weeks by Rex and Auleva Thomas, and as an adult became
Jay Hottinger Says Wendy’s founder "Dave Thomas left the state literally on his deathbed to avoid the estate tax. [SEP] Dave Thomas (businessman) // Honorary, S.J., on November 25, 1995, in Atlanta, Georgia, and unanimously elected to the Scottish Rite's highest honor, the Grand Cross, by The Supreme Council, 33°, in Executive Session on October 3, 1997, in Washington, D.C. Thomas had been battling a carcinoid neuroendocrine tumor for ten years, before it metastasized to his liver. He died on January 8, 2002 at his home in Fort Lauderdale, Florida at the age of 69. Thomas was buried in Union Cemetery in Columbus, Ohio. At the time of his death, there were more than 6,000 Wendy's restaurants operating in North America. Dave Thomas (businessman)
Jay Hottinger Says Wendy’s founder "Dave Thomas left the state literally on his deathbed to avoid the estate tax. [SEP] Dave Thomas (businessman) // Wendy's about a year later. After serving as a regional director for Kentucky Fried Chicken, Thomas became part of the investor group which founded Arthur Treacher's. His involvement with the new restaurant lasted less than a year before he went on to found Wendy's. Thomas opened his first Wendy's in Columbus, Ohio, November 15, 1969. (This original restaurant remained operational until March 2, 2007, when it was closed due to lagging sales.) Thomas named the restaurant after his eight-year-old daughter Melinda Lou, whose nickname was "Wendy", stemming from the child's inability to say her own name at a young age.
Jay Hottinger Says Wendy’s founder "Dave Thomas left the state literally on his deathbed to avoid the estate tax. [SEP] Dave Thomas (businessman) // In addition to Melinda they had three more daughters, Pam, Lori and Molly, and a son, Kenny. Though Kenny died in 2013, Dave's daughters still continue to own and run multiple Wendy's locations. Thomas founded the chain Sisters Chicken and Biscuits in 1978, named in reference to his other 3 daughters. Thomas, realizing that his success as a high school dropout might convince other teenagers to quit school (something he later claimed was a mistake), became a student at Coconut Creek High School. He earned a GED in 1993. Thomas was inducted into the Junior Achievement U.S. Business Hall of
Jay Hottinger Says Wendy’s founder "Dave Thomas left the state literally on his deathbed to avoid the estate tax. [SEP] Dave Thomas (businessman) // a well-known advocate for adoption, founding the Dave Thomas Foundation for Adoption. After his adoptive mother's death when he was 5, his father moved around the country seeking work. Thomas spent some of his early childhood near Kalamazoo, Michigan with his grandmother, Minnie Sinclair, whom he credited with teaching him the importance of service and treating others well and with respect, lessons that helped him in his future business life. At 12, Thomas had his first job at Regas Restaurant, a fine dining restaurant in downtown Knoxville, Tennessee, then lost it in a dispute with his boss; decades later, Regas
Jay Hottinger Says Wendy’s founder "Dave Thomas left the state literally on his deathbed to avoid the estate tax. [SEP] Dave Thomas (businessman) // According to "Bio TV", Dave claims himself that people nicknamed his daughter "Wenda. Not Wendy, but Wenda. 'I'm going to call it Wendy's Old Fashioned Hamburgers'." In 1982, Thomas resigned from his day-to-day operations at Wendy's. However, by 1985, several company business decisions, including an awkward new breakfast menu and loss in brand awareness due to fizzled marketing efforts, caused the company's new president to urge Thomas back into a more active role with Wendy's. Thomas began to visit franchises and espouse his hardworking, so-called "mop-bucket attitude." In 1989, he took on a significant role as the TV spokesperson in
Jay Hottinger Says Wendy’s founder "Dave Thomas left the state literally on his deathbed to avoid the estate tax. [SEP] Wendy's // spaghetti sauce, saying "I found it, I really found it", a phrase alluding to the beef in the listener's mind. Peller was soon after replaced by Wendy's founder Dave Thomas himself. Soft-spoken and bashful, the "Dave" ads generally focused on Thomas praising his products and offering a commitment to quality service, although there would occasionally be "wackier" ads as well. Thomas ultimately appeared in more than 800 commercials, more than any other company founder in television history. After Dave Thomas' death in 2002, Wendy's struggled to find a new advertising campaign. After a round of conventional ads describing the food
Jay Hottinger Says Wendy’s founder "Dave Thomas left the state literally on his deathbed to avoid the estate tax. [SEP] Ron Joyce // coffee shops and Wendy's fast food restaurants in Prince Edward Island wanted to combine both franchises under one roof in a new development in Montague. Murphy asked Joyce and Wendy's founder, Dave Thomas (1932–2002), to be present for the opening. Joyce eventually sold his Wendy's stock and retired from management, but even in retirement continues to be active in his holding company, Jetport Inc, which has significant real estate, aviation, and commercial interests. In 2000, Joyce opened Fox Harb'r Golf Resort & Spa, a five star, four diamond resort/gated community. An airport was built as part of the new resort,
Jay Hottinger Says Wendy’s founder "Dave Thomas left the state literally on his deathbed to avoid the estate tax. [SEP] Dave Thomas (businessman) // a series of commercials for the brand. Thomas was not a natural actor, and initially, his performances were criticized as stiff and ineffective by advertising critics. By 1990, after efforts by Wendy's agency, Backer Spielvolgel Bates, to get humor into the campaign, a decision was made to portray Thomas in a more self-deprecating and folksy manner, which proved much more popular with test audiences. Consumer brand awareness of Wendy's eventually regained levels it had not achieved since octogenarian Clara Peller's wildly popular "Where's the beef?" campaign of 1984. With his natural self-effacing style and his relaxed manner, Thomas quickly became
Jay Hottinger Says Wendy’s founder "Dave Thomas left the state literally on his deathbed to avoid the estate tax. [SEP] Dan Duncan // of the estate tax law for the year 2010, Duncan became the first American billionaire to pay no estate tax since its enactment. Dan Duncan Dan L. Duncan (January 2, 1933 – March 28, 2010) was an American born in Center, Texas. He was the co-founder, chairman and majority shareholder of Enterprise Products. Duncan was born in 1933 in rural Shelby County, Texas. His father was a farmer. His mother died of tuberculosis when he was seven and his brother died of blood poisoning in the same year. He lived with his grandmother until he graduated from Shelbyville High School.
Utah bans abortions after 18 weeks, teeing up legal showdown. [SEP] War on Women // fetuses to delivering calves and pigs on a farm. In April 2012, Arizona passed legislation banning abortions occurring 20 weeks after a woman's last menstrual period. A judge from the District Court initially upheld this ban, but the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals ruled in August 2012 that the ban could not be enforced until an appeal on the law had been decided. The Ninth Circuit then struck down the law as unconstitutional in May 2013. Eight other states, including Nebraska, Alabama, Georgia, Indiana, Idaho and Oklahoma, have passed such bills; unlike Arizona, the gestational age in these states is
Utah bans abortions after 18 weeks, teeing up legal showdown. [SEP] H. L. v. Matheson // of majority who is scheduled to undergo an abortion, at least 24 hours before the abortion. Violation was a misdemeanor subject to a fine up to $1000 and/or several months imprisonment. H.L. initiated a lawsuit as part of a proposed class action of unmarried unemancipated females, arguing that Utah's parental notification statute was unconstitutional. Scott M. Matheson, then the governor of Utah, was named as the defendant. The case made its way to the Utah Supreme Court, where the law was upheld as consistent with "Roe v. Wade" (1973). The judgment noted, among other points, that H.L.'s proposed class action
Utah bans abortions after 18 weeks, teeing up legal showdown. [SEP] War on Women // calculated from fertilization (20 weeks post-fertilization-which means 22 weeks LMP). In 2013, Idaho's ban was struck down as unconstitutional by a federal judge. States such as Ohio have proposed so-called "heartbeat bills" that would prohibit abortions when the heartbeat of the fetus can be detected. Fetal heartbeats can be detected as early as six weeks into a pregnancy. In 2011, voters in Mississippi rejected Initiative 26, a measure that would have declared that human life begins at fertilization, which had drawn support from conservative Republicans and Democrats. Critics of the initiative indicated that the law would have made abortion illegal
Utah bans abortions after 18 weeks, teeing up legal showdown. [SEP] Jason Rapert // bill to ban all abortions in Arkansas after twelve weeks of pregnancy. Then-Governor Mike Beebe (D) vetoed the bill as unconstitutional, but "the Republican-led Legislature overrode his veto." In 2013, a federal judge stopped the law from being implemented, saying it was likely unconstitutional. In January 2016, the U.S. Supreme Court denied the State's petition for a writ of certiorari to review the case. The State of Arkansas was ordered to pay over $97,000 in attorneys' fees and costs to the prevailing plaintiffs before the Supreme Court decision was finalized. In February 2015, Rapert stated that the United States should
Utah bans abortions after 18 weeks, teeing up legal showdown. [SEP] Matt Bevin // them from performing abortions until and unless the case was eventually resolved in its favor. The Kentucky Supreme Court sustained the injunction in August. On January 9, 2017, Bevin signed two into law two bills restricting abortion, including one that banned abortions after the 20th week of pregnancy. Prior to signing it, Bevin announced the 20-week ban would be the first of seven bills that day that he would sign. At the September 2016 Family Research Council Action Values Voter Summit (VVS) in Washington, DC, where Republican presidential and vice presidential candidates Donald Trump and Mike Pence also spoke, Bevin
Utah bans abortions after 18 weeks, teeing up legal showdown. [SEP] Sarah Davis (Texas politician) // regulates the administration of abortion inducing drugs, and prohibits abortions after 20 weeks of gestation. Davis stated at the time that the bill constituted a de facto ban on abortions and would not withstand constitutional scrutiny. Shortly after the ban was enacted, the law was indeed held unconstitutional by a Texas federal judge, though that decision is now on appeal. During the 2013 debate on the abortion restriction bill, Davis offered an amendment to the abortion bill which retained the 20-week ban, but which deleted the unconstitutional facility restrictions, and instead incorporated exceptions for cases of rape, incest, danger to
Utah bans abortions after 18 weeks, teeing up legal showdown. [SEP] Center for Arizona Policy // law banning abortion after 20 weeks of pregnancy. The Center for Arizona Policy opposes legal abortion and has supported legislation to restrict access to abortion. CAP helped to write a bill in Arizona to require that women to explain to their medical providers why they are seeking to have an abortion. Lawsuits against anti-abortion laws have cost Arizona taxpayers more than $2 million, but CAP president, Cathi Herrod, stated that the anti-abortion policies "outweigh the losses in court." In 2013, the City of Bisbee announced that it intended to legalize same-sex civil unions within the municipality. The Arizona Attorney General,
Utah bans abortions after 18 weeks, teeing up legal showdown. [SEP] Trent Franks // would ban abortions after 20 weeks, without exceptions for rape and incest. In defense, he stirred controversy when saying that "the incidents of rape resulting in pregnancy are very low." He later clarified, "Pregnancies from rape that result in abortion after the beginning of the sixth month are very rare." The bill passed by a vote of 228–196. In 2017, he again proposed the same bill that would ban abortions after 20 weeks without exceptions for rape and incest. The bill passed by a vote of 237–189. Franks presided over a hearing to ban abortions after 20 weeks in the
Utah bans abortions after 18 weeks, teeing up legal showdown. [SEP] Abortion law // its availability. In particular, the Russian Duma has been debating a bill since 2015 to remove financial coverage for abortion from the national healthcare system. In the United Kingdom, the Abortion Act of 1967 clarified and prescribed abortions as legal up to 24 weeks. Other countries soon followed, including Canada (1969), the United States (1973 in most states, pursuant to "Roe v. Wade", the federal Supreme Court decision which legalized abortion nationwide), Tunisia (1973), Austria (1974), France (1975), Sweden (1975), New Zealand (1977), Italy (1978), the Netherlands (1980), and Belgium (1990). However, these countries vary greatly in the circumstances under
Utah bans abortions after 18 weeks, teeing up legal showdown. [SEP] Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act // numbers than men. The following table contains data from public opinion polls that asked Americans about their thoughts on banning abortions after 20 weeks. An additional poll not included in the table above was conducted by the Washington Post and ABC News in July 2013 asking, "The U.S. Supreme Court has said abortion is legal without restriction in about the first 24 weeks of pregnancy. Some states have passed laws reducing this to 20 weeks. If it has to be one or the other, would you rather have abortions legal without restriction up to (20) weeks, or up to (24)
Since 2004, more than 2,000 suspected terrorists have legally purchased weapons in the United States. [SEP] Small Arms Survey // as possessed by every law enforcement agency in the United States put together. In April and May 2018, Americans bought 4.7 million guns, that's more than all the firearms stockpiled by the United States military. In 2017, Americans bought 25.2 million guns, that's 2.5 million more guns than possessed by every law enforcement agency in the world put together. Between 2012 and 2017, Americans bought 135 million guns, that's 2 million more guns than the combined stockpile of all the world's armed forces. The data offered by the Small Arms Survey has several times been denounced as misleading or incorrect.
Since 2004, more than 2,000 suspected terrorists have legally purchased weapons in the United States. [SEP] No Fly List // explosives under current federal law," and individuals on the No Fly List are not barred from purchasing guns. According to GAO data, between 2004 and 2010, people on terrorism watch lists—including the No Fly List as well as other separate lists—attempted to buy guns and explosives more than 1,400 times, and succeeded in 1,321 times (more than 90% of cases). Senator Frank Lautenberg of New Jersey repeatedly introduced legislation to bar individuals on the terror watch lists (such as the No Fly List) from buying firearms or explosives, but these efforts have not succeeded. Senator Dianne Feinstein of California revived
Since 2004, more than 2,000 suspected terrorists have legally purchased weapons in the United States. [SEP] Gun control // law enforcement agencies, and armed forces. Of these firearms 650 million, or 75%, are held by civilians. U.S. civilians account for 270 million of this total. A further 200 million are controlled by state military forces. Law enforcement agencies have some 26 million small arms. Non-state armed groups have about 1.4 million firearms. Finally, gang members hold between 2 and 10 million small arms. Together, the small arms arsenals of non-state armed groups and gangs account for, at most, 1.4% of the global total. Barring a few exceptions, most countries in the world allow civilians to purchase firearms subject to
Since 2004, more than 2,000 suspected terrorists have legally purchased weapons in the United States. [SEP] National Security Entry-Exit Registration System // 330 "known criminals" and three "known terrorists"; The spokesperson made these remarks in order to advocate for renewed funding for the program, for which the Bush administration was requesting $16.8 million per fiscal year. However, by 1 December 2016, "[n]o known terrorism convictions resulted from the program," according to a letter from some Democratic Members of Congress and New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman. By January 2003, at least 138,000 individuals were registered in NSEERS, according to testimony by the Department of Homeland Security to Congress. As of May 2003, 82,581 individuals had complied with the domestic portion of the
Since 2004, more than 2,000 suspected terrorists have legally purchased weapons in the United States. [SEP] ATF gunwalking scandal // the U.S. Attorney's Office—to eliminate a trafficking organization—and the belief that confronting subjects and seizing firearms could compromise that goal." By June 2010, suspects had purchased 1,608 firearms at a cost of over US$1 million at Phoenix-area gun shops. At that time, the ATF was also aware of 179 of those weapons being found at crime scenes in Mexico, and 130 in the United States. As guns traced to Fast and Furious began turning up at violent crime scenes in Mexico, ATF agents stationed there also voiced opposition. On the evening of December 14, 2010, U.S. Border Patrol agent Brian
Since 2004, more than 2,000 suspected terrorists have legally purchased weapons in the United States. [SEP] U.S. government response to the September 11 attacks // the attacks, 762 suspects were taken into custody in the United States. On December 12, 2001, Fox News reported that some 60 Israelis were among them. Federal investigators were reported to have described them as part of a long-running effort to spy on American government officials. A "handful" of these Israelis were described as active Israeli military or intelligence operatives. In a letter to the editor, Ira Glaser, former head of the ACLU, claimed that none of those 762 detainees were charged with terrorism. "The Justice Department inspector general's report implies more than the violation of the civil liberties of
Since 2004, more than 2,000 suspected terrorists have legally purchased weapons in the United States. [SEP] Gun ownership // (39.7 million) combined. American civilians own more guns "than those held by civilians in the other top 25 countries combined." "American civilians own nearly 100 times as many firearms as the U.S. military and nearly 400 times as many as law enforcement." Americans bought more than 2 million guns in May, 2018, alone. That is more than twice as many guns, as possessed by every law enforcement agency in the United States put together. In April and May 2018, U.S. civilians bought 4.7 million guns, which is more than all the firearms stockpiled by the United States military. In 2017,
Since 2004, more than 2,000 suspected terrorists have legally purchased weapons in the United States. [SEP] Mexican Drug War // from Central America. However some grenades are also smuggled from the US to Mexico or stolen from the Mexican military. DHS officials have stated that the statistic is misleading: out of approximately 30,000 weapons seized in drug cases in Mexico in 2004–2008, 7,200 appeared to be of U.S. origin, approximately 4,000 were found in ATF manufacturer and importer records, and 87 percent of those—3,480—originated in the United States. In an effort to control smuggling of firearms, the U.S. government is assisting Mexico with technology, equipment and training. Project Gunrunner was one such efforts between the U.S. and Mexico to collaborate
Since 2004, more than 2,000 suspected terrorists have legally purchased weapons in the United States. [SEP] ETrace // Mexico reported they held 305,424 confiscated firearms. Regardless of innocence, first purchaser American gun owner names and addresses, detailed personal information from gun purchases (from form 4473 - including date of birth, possibly Social Security Number), and detail on other guns purchased by owner name is directly available to some 35 foreign governments, including governments with known corruption issues. Over 360,000 trace requests were processed in fiscal year 2014. Trace requests have been accepted by ATF from over 60 foreign governments (some with terrorist connections). ATF admits the identity of the firearms purchaser provided to a foreign law enforcement agency
Since 2004, more than 2,000 suspected terrorists have legally purchased weapons in the United States. [SEP] Arms Export Control Act // and Customs Enforcement (ICE) conducts an industry outreach program called the Project Shield America to prevent foreign adversaries, terrorists, and criminal networks from obtaining U.S. munitions and strategic technology. From 1963 to 1973, 128 nations received $2.5 trillion in weapons and services, the majority from the United States. Law only required that the Secretary of State report “significant” arms sales to Congress, semi-annually. In the early 1970s, legislators moved to become involved in deciding to whom arm sales could be made and under what circumstances. Concern over arms sales increased significantly in the summer of 1973, when news surfaced of
A form of strep infection is capable of affecting the nasal cavity and face. [SEP] Upper respiratory tract infection // in mucous discharge to yellow, thick, or green are the natural course of viral upper respiratory tract infection and not an indication for antibiotics. Group A beta hemolytic streptococcal pharyngitis/tonsillitis (strep throat) typically presents with a sudden onset of sore throat, pain with swallowing and fever. Strep throat does not usually cause runny nose, voice changes, or cough. Pain and pressure of the ear caused by a middle ear infection (otitis media) and the reddening of the eye caused by viral conjunctivitis are often associated with upper respiratory infections. In terms of pathophysiology, rhino virus infection resembles the immune response.
A form of strep infection is capable of affecting the nasal cavity and face. [SEP] Rhinoscleroma // stage begins with a nonspecific rhinitis, which progresses into purulent, fetid rhinorrhea, and crusting, which can last for weeks or even months. The granulomatous stage results in the development of a bluish red nasal mucosa and the development of intranasal rubbery nodules or polyps. Nose bleeds, nasal deformity, and destruction of the nasal cartilage are also noted (Hebra nose). The damage may result in anesthesia of the soft palate, enlargement of the uvula, dysphonia, and various degrees of airway obstruction. The fibrotic stage is characterized by sclerosis and fibrosis. Lymphadenitis is absent. It is caused by "Klebsiella rhinoscleromatis"—subspecies of "Klebsiella
A form of strep infection is capable of affecting the nasal cavity and face. [SEP] Anterior nares // Anterior nares The anterior nares are the external (or "proper") portion of the nostrils (nose). The anterior nares opens into the nasal cavity and allow the inhalation and exhalation of air. Each is an oval opening that measures about 1.5 cm anteroposteriorly and about 1 cm in diameter. The anterior nares are commonly infected by "Staphylococcus aureus" (also known as "golden staph") which may contribute to dermatitic skin lesions in patients with atopic dermatitis. The anterior nares can act as a colonizing point from which the infection can spread.. This can be particularly troublesome if the strain is an antibiotic
A form of strep infection is capable of affecting the nasal cavity and face. [SEP] Cavernous sinus thrombosis // of infection include tonsils, soft palate, middle ear, or orbit (orbital cellulitis). The highly anastomotic venous system of the paranasal sinuses allows retrograde spread of infection to the cavernous sinus via the superior and inferior ophthalmic veins. It was previously thought that veins in the area were valveless and that this was the major cause of the retrograde spread, but a recent study has found that the ophthalmic and facial veins are not valveless. "Staphylococcus aureus" is the most common infectious microbe, found in 70% of the cases. "Streptococcus" is the second leading cause. Gram-negative rods and anaerobes may also
A form of strep infection is capable of affecting the nasal cavity and face. [SEP] Rhinoscleroma // Rhinoscleroma Rhinoscleroma, or simply scleroma, is a chronic granulomatous bacterial disease of the nose that can sometimes infect the upper respiratory tract. It most commonly affects the nasal cavity—the nose is involved in 95–100 per cent of cases—however, it can also affect the nasopharynx, larynx, trachea, and bronchi. Slightly more females than males are affected and patients are usually 10 to 30 years of age. Rhinoscleroma is considered a tropical disease and is mostly endemic to Africa and Central America, less common in the United States. Rhinoscleroma has been divided into 3 stages: catarrhal/atrophic, granulomatous, and sclerotic stages. The catarrhal
A form of strep infection is capable of affecting the nasal cavity and face. [SEP] Danger triangle of the face // Danger triangle of the face The danger triangle of the face consists of the area from the corners of the mouth to the bridge of the nose, including the nose and maxilla. Due to the special nature of the blood supply to the human nose and surrounding area, it is possible, albeit extremely unlikely, for retrograde infection from the nasal area to spread to the brain, causing cavernous sinus thrombosis, meningitis or brain abscess. This is possible because of venous communication (via the ophthalmic veins) between the facial vein and the cavernous sinus. The cavernous sinus lies within the cranial
A form of strep infection is capable of affecting the nasal cavity and face. [SEP] Sinus (anatomy) // sinus cavities. This inflammation causes an increase in internal pressure within these areas. The pressure is often experienced in the cheek area, eyes, nose, on one side of the head (temple areas), and can result in a severe headache. When diagnosing a sinus infection, one can identify which sinus cavity the infection is located in by the term given to the cavity. Ethmoiditis refers to an infection in the ethmoid sinus cavity/ies, frontal sinusitis refers to an infection occurring in the frontal sinus cavity/ies, antritis is used to refer to an infection in the maxillary sinus cavity/ies whilst spenoiditis refers
A form of strep infection is capable of affecting the nasal cavity and face. [SEP] Anterior nares // resistant (commonly MRSA or ORSA) strain. MRSA (first discovered in the UK in 1961) has become particularly widespread in hospitals and is commonly considered a superbug. For more information on symptoms and treatment see MRSA. Anterior nares The anterior nares are the external (or "proper") portion of the nostrils (nose). The anterior nares opens into the nasal cavity and allow the inhalation and exhalation of air. Each is an oval opening that measures about 1.5 cm anteroposteriorly and about 1 cm in diameter. The anterior nares are commonly infected by "Staphylococcus aureus" (also known as "golden staph") which may contribute
A form of strep infection is capable of affecting the nasal cavity and face. [SEP] Herpes labialis // infection of the mouth specifically; "stomatitis" is derived from the Greek word "stoma", which means "mouth". Herpes infections usually show no symptoms; when symptoms do appear they typically resolve within two weeks. The main symptom of oral infection is inflammation of the mucosa of the cheek and gums—known as acute herpetic gingivostomatitis—which occurs within 5–10 days of infection. Other symptoms may also develop, including headache, nausea, dizziness and painful ulcers—sometimes confused with canker sores—fever, and sore throat. Primary HSV infection in adolescents frequently manifests as severe pharyngitis with lesions developing on the cheek and gums. Some individuals develop difficulty in
A form of strep infection is capable of affecting the nasal cavity and face. [SEP] Streptococcus ferus // the nasal and oral cavities of pigs. The species has not been identified in any other host organisms. "S. ferus" are gram positive lanceolate coccobacillus Non-motile and approximately 0.5 micrometers in diameter. They are non-sporulating and catalase-negative The majority of specimens test positive for the production of acetoin (Vogues-Proskauer reaction). They occur singly, in pairs or in short chains. "S. ferus" is commensal in wild rats and pigs and demonstrates a relatively weak cariogenic potential compared to other streptococcus species such as "S. mutans" "S. ferus" has not had any reported pathogenic instances in humans. "S. ferus" was originally proposed
Image of an anti-Semitic sign ("the real plague") was captured at a COVID-19 anti-lockdown protest in Ohio in April 2020. [SEP] Joshua Bonehill-Paine // Auschwitz and a stereotyped cartoon of a Jewish man being sprayed with weedkiller, under the slogan "Join us on July 4 for what promises to be an absolute gas!" with an SS lightning bolt in the ‘O’ of Golders Green. Weekes said the poster "trivialises and mocks the death of millions of Jews during the Third Reich" and considered the use of Nazi imagery in reference to an area with a large Jewish population to be "incitement". On 16 December, Bonehill-Paine was convicted of inciting racial hatred against Jews. He was sentenced to three years and four months imprisonment. Bonehill-Paine
Image of an anti-Semitic sign ("the real plague") was captured at a COVID-19 anti-lockdown protest in Ohio in April 2020. [SEP] Antisemitic incidents during the Gaza War (2008–09) // and "Death to Israel" were spray painted on the building. At a Jewish preschool in Camarillo, California, swastikas and anti-Semitic messages written in black marker on its sidewalk and walls. In La Paz, vandals removed a Star of David from a monument from the Plaza Israel and started spray-painting "plaza Palestina" on Jewish murals. The Caracas synagogue of the Israelite Association of Venezuela, the city's oldest, was defaced. Jewish schools were closed for several days due to concern that they would attract anti-Israel demonstrations. On 26 February, assailants threw an explosive at a Jewish community center in Caracas. Antisemitic incidents
Image of an anti-Semitic sign ("the real plague") was captured at a COVID-19 anti-lockdown protest in Ohio in April 2020. [SEP] Roman Vishniac // his finger to his eye. Vishiniac's caption reads: "The father is hiding from the Endecy (members of the National Democratic Party). His son signals him that they are approaching. Warsaw, 1935-1938." At the front of the book, additional commentary reads: "The pogromshchiki" (pogrom lynch mob) "are coming. But the iron door was no protection." Benton's research found that the photos were from different rolls of film, taken in different towns, so the scene described in the book "almost certainly did not happen". Similarly, Benton discovered negatives that showed the unsmiling little girl depicted in "The Only Flowers of her Youth"
Image of an anti-Semitic sign ("the real plague") was captured at a COVID-19 anti-lockdown protest in Ohio in April 2020. [SEP] Have Mercy on Us All // return of the plague will also be part of the day’s requested cries. At the same time, chief inspector Adamsberg is surprised as a distressed woman describes that all her apartment building’s doors, except one, have been marked with a large inverted "4" in black ink with the inscription "CLT." This graffiti continues to turn up throughout the city, and residents of apartments with unmarked doors are turning up dead, showing signs of rat-flea bites and blackened flesh. Inspector Adamsberg must lead an investigation that takes him through a juxtaposition of 15th-century Europe and modern-day France...or "does" he? Have Mercy
Image of an anti-Semitic sign ("the real plague") was captured at a COVID-19 anti-lockdown protest in Ohio in April 2020. [SEP] Hate speech laws in France // on a building on the Avenue Charles-de-Gaulle in Neuilly-sur-Seine. The billboard featured a photograph of twelve beautiful, well-dressed women and one shirtless man posed round a table in the manner of the characters in the painting Last Supper by Leonardo da Vinci. A Catholic organization complained that the billboard insulted a group of people because of their religion. The court of first instance convicted Girbaud, and ordered the billboard removed. In April 2005, a higher court upheld the conviction. In November 2006, the Supreme Court of Appeal annulled the conviction. On 25 April 2005, the daily newspaper "Libération" published a
Image of an anti-Semitic sign ("the real plague") was captured at a COVID-19 anti-lockdown protest in Ohio in April 2020. [SEP] 2017 Berkeley protests // in the park at the peak of the rally. Various far-right activists in the crowd held up antisemitic signs, and some made Nazi salutes and used other Nazi/neo-Nazi symbolism such as the Black Sun/Sonnerad During the event, Nathan Damigo—a 30-year-old California State University, Stanislaus student and the founder of the white supremacist, alt-right group Identity Evropa punched a female protester in the face and then ran into the crowd. The attack was captured on video and prompted calls for Damigo's arrest or expulsion. Cal State Stanislaus stated that they would investigate Damigo. Also during the event a former Diablo Valley
Image of an anti-Semitic sign ("the real plague") was captured at a COVID-19 anti-lockdown protest in Ohio in April 2020. [SEP] Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri // role within the Syrian Civil War, set up three billboards outside the United Nations building in New York that read ", ", and ". On or around March 1, around the time of the 2018 Oscars, three billboards were taken out in Los Angeles, stating "WE ALL KNEW AND STILL NO ARRESTS", "AND THE OSCAR FOR BIGGEST PEDOPHILE GOES TO..." and "NAME NAMES ON STAGE OR SHUT THE HELL UP!", as an attempt to protest both the Oscars and the #MeToo movement. On March 8, on International Women's Day, three billboards were put in downtown Pristina, Kosovo, to protest the
Image of an anti-Semitic sign ("the real plague") was captured at a COVID-19 anti-lockdown protest in Ohio in April 2020. [SEP] History of antisemitism in the United States // a violent member of the anti-Israel organization SJP. On the beginning of September 2014 there were more than 6 incidents of antisemitic graffiti across the country, three of them outside religious buildings such as synagogue or a Yeshiva. Most of the drawings included swastika inscriptions, and one of them had the words "Murder the Jew tenant". Later that month another antisemitic graffiti was found on the Jewish Community Center in Boulder, Colorado. Then, a few days later a violent attack occurred in Baltimore, Maryland, when during Rosh Hashanah a man who drove near the Jewish school shot three man after
Image of an anti-Semitic sign ("the real plague") was captured at a COVID-19 anti-lockdown protest in Ohio in April 2020. [SEP] Anti-WEF protests in Switzerland, January 2003 // protester wearing a mask of Donald Rumsfeld and a yellow, six-pointed cardboard "sheriff" badge is portrayed carrying the golden calf, and next to him, another protester impersonating Ariel Sharon is wielding a plastic club. The Rumsfeld character's badge was misinterpreted as alluding to the Star of David, or even to Nazi concentration camp badges, an interpretation that arose because low-resolution versions of the image were circulated in news reports, where the "sheriff" text on the star was not legible. Anti-WEF protests in Switzerland, January 2003 The World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland (January, 2003) triggered anti-globalization protests across Switzerland. Access
Image of an anti-Semitic sign ("the real plague") was captured at a COVID-19 anti-lockdown protest in Ohio in April 2020. [SEP] Pittsburgh synagogue shooting // salutes, and the slogan "Blood and Soil" amid explicit and implicitly racist and antisemitic rhetoric. Online, the reports found a large proportion of the antisemitic material was spread through the medium of conspiracy theories concerning wealthy Jewish individuals including billionaire George Soros, with Columbia University's Jon Albright claiming these represented the "worst sample" of all the hate speech he had seen on Instagram. At 9:45 a.m. three services were underway in the Tree of Life synagogue which housed three congregations. Tree of Life and New Light had both just begun separate Shabbat morning service in the Pervin Chapel and basement,
Chris Sununu Says drug dealers have "overdosed on purpose" to avoid prosecution. [SEP] Ong Ah Chuan v Public Prosecutor // meeting place and the heroin was discovered in the boot of his car. Before the High Court, counsel for Ong submitted that since the accused had been carrying the drugs for personal purposes and not for the purposes of delivery or sale, the actions did not amount to trafficking within the meaning of the MDA. The accused also claimed that he had purchased the large quantity of heroin because it was cheaper and more convenient to buy it in bulk. The trial judges dismissed the defence and found that the accused had invented the story "to escape the consequences of
Chris Sununu Says drug dealers have "overdosed on purpose" to avoid prosecution. [SEP] Ted Binion // wealth, drugging Binion into unconsciousness and burking him, a form of manual suffocation. The suffocation, in this theory, which was presented at trial by forensics pathologist Michael Baden, who testified for the prosecution, was done because the overdose was taking too long, and the pair feared discovery. They were each charged with murder and burglary charges connected to the removal of his fortune from the vault on the desert floor in Pahrump. A police report that was not used in the first trial by Rick Tabish's first attorney Louie Palazzo revealed that a drive-by shooting occurred on June 5, 1997,
Chris Sununu Says drug dealers have "overdosed on purpose" to avoid prosecution. [SEP] Prohibition of drugs // "Bali Nine" were caught smuggling heroin. Two of the nine, Andrew Chan and Myuran Sukumaran, were executed April 29, 2015 along with six other foreign nationals. In August 2005, Australian model Michelle Leslie was arrested with two ecstasy pills. She pleaded guilty to possession and in November 2005 was sentenced to 3 months imprisonment, which she was deemed to have already served, and was released from prison immediately upon her admission of guilt on the charge of possession. At the 1961 Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs, Indonesia, along with India, Turkey, Pakistan and some South American countries opposed the criminalisation
Chris Sununu Says drug dealers have "overdosed on purpose" to avoid prosecution. [SEP] University of Massachusetts Amherst // Logan, who died from a heroin overdose after working as a confidential informant for the UMass police department. After UMass police arrested Logan for selling LSD, he was offered the opportunity to work as a confidential informant in exchange for his freedom. UMass police did not suspect he was using drugs like heroin. Soon after the Globe's story was published, Chancellor Kumble Subbaswammy suspended the use of the program and required UMass Police to report to the Vice Chancellor of Student Affairs and Campus Life instead of the Vice Chancellor for Administration and Finance. Applications to the school have more
Chris Sununu Says drug dealers have "overdosed on purpose" to avoid prosecution. [SEP] Van Tuong Nguyen // House of Representatives, Abdullah Tarmugi, the Speaker of the Parliament of Singapore, wrote: "He was caught in possession of almost 400 grams of pure heroin, enough for more than 26,000 doses of heroin for drug addicts... He knew what he was doing and the consequences of his actions. As representatives of the people, we have an obligation to protect the lives of those who could be ruined by the drugs he was carrying." "We cannot allow Singapore to be used as a transit for illicit drugs in the region," Tarmugi wrote to Australian MPs. "We know this is a painful
Chris Sununu Says drug dealers have "overdosed on purpose" to avoid prosecution. [SEP] Murder of Rachel Hoffman // a possible prison sentence if charged and convicted on criminal charges related to the discovered drugs. Police attempted to persuade her to identify other marijuana dealers to avoid the charges. She refused. The police then pressured her to act as a confidential informant in a drug sting operation instead in exchange for not being charged with additional drug charges. The purported goal of the operation was to buy 1,500 ecstasy pills, 2 oz. of cocaine, and two handguns, which was contrary to department policy, using $13,000 cash in a buy–bust operation. Hoffman's family stated that all three buys were very
Chris Sununu Says drug dealers have "overdosed on purpose" to avoid prosecution. [SEP] Ong Ah Chuan v Public Prosecutor // was for the purpose of personal consumption. Lord Diplock explained that the rationale for the section 15 presumption was the difficulty in proving the purpose of trafficking. In drug trafficking cases, the strongest attainable evidence was likely to be the act of transporting the drugs. Regardless of this, his Lordship held that even in the absence of section 15, it could be inferred that the transportation of a large quantity of drugs was for trafficking purposes. As a matter of common sense, the larger the quantity, the more likely it is for trafficking. Therefore, the appellants' argument that the Court
Chris Sununu Says drug dealers have "overdosed on purpose" to avoid prosecution. [SEP] Yong Vui Kong v Public Prosecutor // a trial in the High Court, Yong was found guilty of drug trafficking contrary to section 5(1)(a) of the MDA. Trafficking in more than of diamorphine attracts a mandatory death penalty. The Court was of the view that Yong must have known that he had been carrying drugs. Yong instructed his counsel to file an appeal, but later asked that the appeal be withdrawn. His case was eventually taken over by another lawyer, M. Ravi, who had been instructed by Yong's brother. In the meantime, Yong had also petitioned the President of Singapore for clemency. This was rejected on 20
Chris Sununu Says drug dealers have "overdosed on purpose" to avoid prosecution. [SEP] Misuse of Drugs Act (Singapore) // to a premises containing the drugs, and that "Any person found in or escaping from any place or premises which is proved or presumed to be used for the purpose of smoking or administering a controlled drug shall, until the contrary is proved, be presumed to have been smoking or administering a controlled drug in that place or premises." Thus, one runs the risk of arrest for drug use by simply being in the company of drug users. The law also allows officers to search premises and individuals, without a search warrant, if he "reasonably suspects that there is to
Chris Sununu Says drug dealers have "overdosed on purpose" to avoid prosecution. [SEP] Darryl Rouson // with tobacco, Rouson claimed it was common knowledge they were commonly used to smoke such illicit drugs as marijuana and cocaine, and decried the "legal lie and deception" that allows them to be sold. In court, the manager of the shop said anyone who talks about illegal drugs is asked to leave, and that Rouson had refused to do so. Rouson claimed that he tried to leave, but his way was blocked by two pit bulls. At trial, Rouson claimed he had gone to the store as an act of protest against the sale of what he called "death utensils".
The Obama administration left Trump with a “stockpile with a cupboard that was bare.” [SEP] Presidency of Donald Trump // lose protections under the rule change. "The New York Times" found in November 2018 that the administration had "presided over a sharp decline in financial penalties against banks and big companies accused of malfeasance," relative to the Obama administration. In the first six weeks of his tenure, Trump suspended — or in a few cases, revoked — over 90 regulations. In January 2017, Trump ordered a temporary government-wide hiring freeze of the civilian work force (excluding staff in the military, national security, public safety and offices of new presidential appointees). In February 2017, said he did not intend to fill
The Obama administration left Trump with a “stockpile with a cupboard that was bare.” [SEP] Presidency of Donald Trump // many of the governmental positions that were still vacant, as he considered them unnecessary; there were nearly 2,000 vacant government positions. The hiring freeze was lifted in April 2017. In early 2017, Trump signed an executive order directing federal agencies to slash two existing regulations for every new one (without spending on regulations going up). A September 2017 Bloomberg BNA review found that due to unclear wording in the order and the large proportion of regulations that it exempts, the order had had little effect since it was signed. The Trump OMB released an analysis in February 2018 indicating that
The Obama administration left Trump with a “stockpile with a cupboard that was bare.” [SEP] Presidency of Donald Trump // administration stopped the Obama administration policy of logging visitors to the White House, making it difficult to tell who has visited the White House. Nathan Cortez of the Southern Methodist University's Dedman School of Law, who studies the handling of public data, said that the Trump administration, unlike the Obama administration, was taking transparency "in the opposite direction". According to several reports, Trump's and his family's trips in the first month of his presidency cost the US taxpayers nearly as much as former President Obama's travel expenses for an entire year. When Obama was president, Trump frequently criticized him for
The Obama administration left Trump with a “stockpile with a cupboard that was bare.” [SEP] Foreign policy of the Donald Trump administration // keep it out of the hands of ISIS. Trump reiterated his support for seizing other nations' oil after taking office as President. In January 2017, he said that the United States "should have kept the oil" after the Iraq invasion and "maybe we'll have another chance". With the arrival of the Donald Trump administration, a change in policy was instituted regarding the disclosure of current troop levels as well as the timing of any additional deployments to the area, thus making good on his campaign promises to utilize the "element of surprise." As of April 2017, according to the LA
The Obama administration left Trump with a “stockpile with a cupboard that was bare.” [SEP] Foreign policy of Donald Trump (2015-2016) // spoken and I disagree." On February 16, 2017, President Trump's Secretary of Defense, James Mattis, declared that the United States was not currently prepared to collaborate with Russia on military matters - including future anti-ISIL US operations. The Trump administration has taken a different stance from the previous Obama administration on the issue of the Syrian Civil War, with UN Ambassador Nikki Haley and Secretary of State Rex Tillerson both stating in March 2017 that the United States would no longer prioritize the removal of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad from office, in line with Trump's stance during his campaign. During
The Obama administration left Trump with a “stockpile with a cupboard that was bare.” [SEP] Presidency of Donald Trump // pro-Trump program the president is known to regularly watch — sharply criticized Trump's decision as "totally irresponsible," adding "nobody thinks ISIS is defeated" and that the president had blindsided the Pentagon and State Department. Trump took office after Barack Obama signed the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA or "Iran nuclear deal"), which Trump described as one of the "worst deals ever made". On February 3, Trump and the Iranian foreign minister, Javad Zarif, "sparred on Twitter" over sanctions and Executive Order 13796. Trump tweeted that Iran was "playing with fire" after the country conducted a ballistic missile test earlier
The Obama administration left Trump with a “stockpile with a cupboard that was bare.” [SEP] Presidency of Donald Trump // Obama administration. Trump said that he would reimpose the economic sanctions on Iran that were lifted in 2015 as part of the agreement. In response, Iran announced that it would restart uranium enrichment. Trump had long expressed hostility towards the agreement and had on several previous occasions been persuaded by White House aides not to withdraw. However, by May 2018, Trump faced less internal resistance, as more hawkish advisors, such as Mike Pompeo and John Bolton, had come to play a more prominent role in the administration. Trump's withdrawal was supported by Israeli leader Benjamin Netanyahu but widely condemned by
The Obama administration left Trump with a “stockpile with a cupboard that was bare.” [SEP] Donald Trump // second overall. During his first six weeks in office, he abolished ninety federal regulations. On January 23, 2017, Trump ordered a temporary government-wide hiring freeze, except for those working in certain areas. The Comptroller General of the Government Accountability Office told a House committee that hiring freezes have not proven to be effective in reducing costs. Unlike some past freezes, the current freeze bars agencies from adding contractors to make up for employees leaving. A week later Trump signed Executive Order 13771, which directed administrative agencies to repeal two existing regulations for every new regulation they issue. Agency defenders expressed
The Obama administration left Trump with a “stockpile with a cupboard that was bare.” [SEP] Rick Dearborn // with vetting, interviewing, and recommending individuals for top cabinet and staff roles in Trump's administration. He was the team's executive director. Dearborn, alongside Marc Short, and Andrew Bremberg, coordinated with aides of Senator Mitch McConnell in employing the Congressional Review Act to reverse 13 regulations made late in the presidency of Barack Obama by creating an Excel spreadsheet of targets, eventually being able to eliminate over twice as many regulations as they had anticipated. On Nov. 11, 2017 The Politico website reported, "Deputy chief of staff Rick Dearborn's departure would make him the latest in a growing conga line of
The Obama administration left Trump with a “stockpile with a cupboard that was bare.” [SEP] Foreign policy of the Donald Trump administration // Secretary of Defense James Mattis, declared that the United States was not currently prepared to collaborate with Russia on military matters, including future anti-ISIL US operations. Michael Isikoff of Yahoo! News reported in June 2017 that during the early weeks of the Trump administration, State Department employees were told to develop proposals to lift the sanctions which had been imposed on Russia after its military incursions into Ukraine and its interference in the November election. No action or return would be expected from Russia in return for removing the sanctions. The proposals were dropped after resistance from State Department employees
Flashing your car's high beams at a traffic signal will cause it to change from red to green more quickly. [SEP] Traffic-light signalling and operation // are sometimes designed with a red cross to indicate that the light is red. In Austria, Cambodia, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Russia, most of Israel, Malaysia, parts of Mexico, Turkey, and in certain other parts of Europe, the green lights will start flashing at the end of the Go or Turn phase to indicate that the yellow (Caution phase) lights are about to be engaged. This is useful in fast-paced roads to allow for longer slowing down time, and for pedestrians crossing broad streets. Some traffic lights in Pennsylvania illuminate the yellow light a few seconds before the green light turns
Flashing your car's high beams at a traffic signal will cause it to change from red to green more quickly. [SEP] Automotive lighting // moving traffic, a disabled vehicle, a vehicle moving substantially slower than the flow of traffic such as a truck climbing a steep grade, or the presence of stopped or slow traffic ahead on a high speed road. In vehicles with a separate left and right green turn signal tell-tale on the dashboard, both left and right indicators may flash to provide visual indication of the hazard flashers' operation. In vehicles with a single green turn signal tell-tale on the dashboard, a separate red tell-tale must be provided for hazard flasher indication. Because the hazard flasher function operates the vehicle's left
Flashing your car's high beams at a traffic signal will cause it to change from red to green more quickly. [SEP] Traffic-light signalling and operation // for better progression (coordination) between signals. This saves gasoline by stopping fewer vehicles. The flashing yellow arrow is also meant to prevent yellow trap, which occurs when the circular signal turns yellow, and then red, while oncoming traffic still has a circular green. This traps left turning cars in the intersection while oncoming traffic continues to flow. It can also fool drivers into mistakenly assuming that oncoming traffic also has a yellow light, so they turn across live traffic, causing an accident. When the opposing direction has both a circular green and a protected left turn green arrow, the flashing
Flashing your car's high beams at a traffic signal will cause it to change from red to green more quickly. [SEP] Headlight flashing // Headlight flashing Headlight flashing is the act of either briefly switching on the headlights of a car, or of momentarily switching between a headlight's high beams and low beams, in an effort to communicate with another driver or drivers. The signal is sometimes referred to in car manufacturers' manuals as an optical horn, since it draws the attention of other drivers. The signal can be intended to convey a variety of messages, including a warning to other drivers of road hazards, telling a driver they can pass through or alerting a driver of speed traps, and it can also be
Flashing your car's high beams at a traffic signal will cause it to change from red to green more quickly. [SEP] Traffic-light signalling and operation // with a corresponding (or similar) sign facing oncoming traffic. When a flashing-green phase occurs after a normal green phase, it as known as an "extended green", but this sequence is much less common, as it can create a hazardous yellow trap for oncoming left turns. The advanced green was originally chosen to be represented by flashing green because at the time of its introduction, in Ontario, a green arrow had meant that all traffic *must turn* in the direction of the arrow, although this is no longer the case. Additionally, an advanced green could be more easily added to existing
Flashing your car's high beams at a traffic signal will cause it to change from red to green more quickly. [SEP] Traffic-light signalling and operation // of yellow, then red (at which time the pedestrian crossing gives a signal) as in a conventional set of traffic lights, then returns to flashing green until another crossing is requested. This indication is also used in Massachusetts at fire stations. In several European countries and Mexico, a flashing green light is used in crosswalks to indicate that signal is going to change from green to red soon. Therefore, flashing green has roughly the same meaning to pedestrians as ordinary yellow signal has for motorists. Slow-moving pedestrians are warned about oncoming signal change and have opportunity to wait for next
Flashing your car's high beams at a traffic signal will cause it to change from red to green more quickly. [SEP] Traffic-light signalling and operation // to a double red light. Tianjin in the People's Republic of China has two very special systems of traffic lights, in use since : One system is where there is a horizontal bar in a specific colour, with the colour changing and the bar shrinking. The shrinking bar indicates the time remaining in that colour. The colour itself is either red (stop), yellow or green (go). A blinking green one-third-full bar means "reduce speed now", and a blinking yellow full-bar indicates "proceed with caution". When lights of this system turn from green to red, the diminishing green bar will flash
Flashing your car's high beams at a traffic signal will cause it to change from red to green more quickly. [SEP] Traffic light // a left turn in front of opposing traffic, which is being held by a steady red lamp. (This "advance green," or flashing green can be somewhat startling and confusing to drivers not familiar with this system. This also can cause confusion amongst visitors to British Columbia, where a flashing green signal denotes a pedestrian controlled crosswalk.) Another interesting practice seen at least in Ontario is that cars wishing to turn left that arrived after the left turn signal ended can do so during the yellow phase, as long as there is enough time to make a safe turn. A flashing
Flashing your car's high beams at a traffic signal will cause it to change from red to green more quickly. [SEP] Headlight flashing // activity, it is sometimes considered courteous to flash back. Flashing can inform drivers of problems with their car, such as headlamps left off after dark, burned out or misaligned lights, or misuse of high beam rather than low beam in traffic; or to berate a driver who poses a risk to traffic. Headlight flashing coupled with blowing the car's horn can help clear deer from a driver's path. Flashing can indicate the intention to overtake or pass another driver, or to signal a driver who has just overtaken that he or she can now return to the original lane. Flashing
Flashing your car's high beams at a traffic signal will cause it to change from red to green more quickly. [SEP] Traffic-light signalling and operation // It also informs drivers who may be approaching the intersection at speed that a green light is imminent, so they may proceed through the junction without having to stop (or, with enough of a lead distance, even having to slow), reducing the potential annoyance (and safety risk) of braking sharply to a halt only to have the green light appear immediately after. In some areas, a "prepare to stop" sign with two alternately flashing yellow lights is installed in locations where a high-speed road (design speed usually at least 55 mph / 90 km/h) leads up to a traffic light,
The federal government is “preparing to mobilize the national guard,” “dispatch them across the US with military” and “announce a nationwide 1 week quarantine for all citizens.” [SEP] Operation Dark Winter // assets. Leaders in states most affected by smallpox wanted immediate access to smallpox vaccine for all citizens of their states, but the federal government had to balance these requests against military and other national priorities. State leaders were opposed to federalizing the National Guard, which they were relying on to support logistical and public supply needs, while a number of federal leaders argued that the National Guard should be federalized. The exercise was designed to simulate a sudden and unexpected biowarfare event for which the United States healthcare system was unprepared. In the absence of sufficient preparation, Dark Winter revealed
The federal government is “preparing to mobilize the national guard,” “dispatch them across the US with military” and “announce a nationwide 1 week quarantine for all citizens.” [SEP] Strategic National Stockpile // by the CDC. The U.S. Marshals Service provides armed security from these federal sites to local destinations. The SNS has adequate vaccines and countermeasures in its stockpile, including 300 million smallpox treatment courses and enough anthrax vaccine to handle a three-city incident. Following landfall of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita on the Gulf coast of Mississippi and Louisiana in September 2005, the CDC deployed SNS assets, technical assistance and response units, plus the newly developed and rapidly deployable "federal medical contingency stations" to state-approved locations near or in the disaster areas. The contingency stations, later renamed Federal Medical Stations (FMS), are
The federal government is “preparing to mobilize the national guard,” “dispatch them across the US with military” and “announce a nationwide 1 week quarantine for all citizens.” [SEP] Flu (film) // convinces the mob to head to Seoul and infect its citizens, as only then would the government take true action against the disease. Upon hearing that the antibody carrier had been killed, and being faced with the quarantine zone being breached, the Prime Minister authorizes the second-line of forces consisting of soldiers and tanks from the ROK Army, Reserve Forces and Special Forces, to use lethal force to prevent the civilians from escaping Budang. Though the citizens are initially halted from threats of being fired upon by the soldiers, Gook-hwan escalates the situation when he attempts to shoot Ji-goo, but
The federal government is “preparing to mobilize the national guard,” “dispatch them across the US with military” and “announce a nationwide 1 week quarantine for all citizens.” [SEP] Militia Act of 1903 // Army officers would serve as inspectors and instructors of National Guard units. The War Department also agreed to organize joint Army-National Guard exercises and training encampments. In return, the federal government gained greater control over the National Guard. The President of the United States was empowered to call up the National Guard for up to nine months to repel invasion, suppress rebellion, or enforce federal laws. Guardsmen had to answer a presidential call or face court-martial. States had to organize, equip, and train their units in accordance with the policies and procedures of the regular Army. If Guard units failed
The federal government is “preparing to mobilize the national guard,” “dispatch them across the US with military” and “announce a nationwide 1 week quarantine for all citizens.” [SEP] Strategic National Stockpile // since October 1, 2018. Prior to that, the Stockpile was managed by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The Strategic National Stockpile (SNS) successfully deployed 12-hour "push packages" to New York City and Washington, D.C. in response to 9/11, and Managed Inventory (MI) to numerous locations in response to the anthrax terrorist attacks of 2001. These push packages are warehoused in a dozen classified, nondescript facilities under 24-hour contractor armed guard protection. Geographically situated to allow rapid delivery anywhere in the Continental U.S., material deploys by unmarked trucks and/or airplanes within 12 hours of the receipt of a request
The federal government is “preparing to mobilize the national guard,” “dispatch them across the US with military” and “announce a nationwide 1 week quarantine for all citizens.” [SEP] Criticism of government response to Hurricane Katrina // (one of the exceptions to the Posse Comitatus Act), but this request was rejected by Blanco. Governor Haley Barbour of Mississippi also rejected a similar request. Governor Blanco did make a request to the Federal government for additional National Guard troops (to be under her command) to supplement the 5,700 Louisiana National Guard troops available in Louisiana at the time. However, the necessary formal request through the federal National Guard Bureau was not made until Wednesday, a full two days after the hurricane hit and when much of the city was already under water; Blanco explained that she didn't understand
The federal government is “preparing to mobilize the national guard,” “dispatch them across the US with military” and “announce a nationwide 1 week quarantine for all citizens.” [SEP] Nick Clark (character) // later join up with the Clark's. All three families decide to stay the night and evacuate in the morning. The next morning, as the Clarks and Manawas start driving away, the National Guard arrives and quarantines the block. While Travis says, "It's going to get better," Daniel laments that it's, "too late," as he watches a guardsman mark the neighboring house. Days after the National Guard quarantines the neighborhood into a Safe Zone, residents try to live normally. Tensions build under the military rule. Madison is stressed by extra work caused by her home's being overcrowded and Travis' new role
The federal government is “preparing to mobilize the national guard,” “dispatch them across the US with military” and “announce a nationwide 1 week quarantine for all citizens.” [SEP] National Response Scenario Number One // U.S. Army helicopters stationed around the Capitol. Additional rescue personnel would begin flooding into the affected area from U.S. military sources, FEMA and civilian volunteers. Rescue efforts would be directed toward zones of survivability. The coast guard would conduct river and off shore rescue operations under the direction of FEMA. Resources from surrounding states including Fire, police, EMT and National Guard would begin arriving within 24 hours. Expected radiation levels will limit the total time workers can spend in the affected area, quickly leading to a shortage of willing, qualified, and trained workers. The United States Department of Labor would
The federal government is “preparing to mobilize the national guard,” “dispatch them across the US with military” and “announce a nationwide 1 week quarantine for all citizens.” [SEP] Hurricane Katrina // troops coming from all 50 states. The Department of Defense also activated volunteer members of the Civil Air Patrol. Michael Chertoff, Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security, decided to take over the federal, state, and local operations officially on August 30, 2005, citing the National Response Plan. This was refused by Governor Blanco who indicated that her National Guard could manage. Early in September, Congress authorized a total of $62.3 billion in aid for victims. Additionally, President Bush enlisted the help of former presidents Bill Clinton and George H. W. Bush to raise additional voluntary contributions, much as they
The federal government is “preparing to mobilize the national guard,” “dispatch them across the US with military” and “announce a nationwide 1 week quarantine for all citizens.” [SEP] National Response Scenario Number One // would begin detonating nuclear devices in other cities. The US Government would not know for certain if such devices existed or where they are located. In order to counter this scenario the President or surviving successor would order a lockdown of all U.S. borders. The Department of Homeland Security would instruct the Department of Transportation (DOT), Coast Guard, Port Authority, and the U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) to close all borders. The Federal Aviation Administration would issue Security Control of Air Traffic and Air Navigation Aids emergency plan or SCATANA. This would ground all commercial air traffic in the
A new Arkansas law allows rapists to sue their victims to stop an abortion. [SEP] Jason Rapert // bill to ban all abortions in Arkansas after twelve weeks of pregnancy. Then-Governor Mike Beebe (D) vetoed the bill as unconstitutional, but "the Republican-led Legislature overrode his veto." In 2013, a federal judge stopped the law from being implemented, saying it was likely unconstitutional. In January 2016, the U.S. Supreme Court denied the State's petition for a writ of certiorari to review the case. The State of Arkansas was ordered to pay over $97,000 in attorneys' fees and costs to the prevailing plaintiffs before the Supreme Court decision was finalized. In February 2015, Rapert stated that the United States should
A new Arkansas law allows rapists to sue their victims to stop an abortion. [SEP] Pregnancy from rape // don't get pregnant. Medical authorities agree that this is a rarity, if ever." In 1998, Arkansas state senator Fay Boozman lost a campaign for a US Senate seat after remarking that fear-induced hormonal changes made rape victims unlikely to become pregnant. He later apologized and eventually called the claim a mistake, but the controversy was renewed in 1999 when he was appointed director of the Arkansas Department of Health by then-governor Mike Huckabee. During his campaign in the United States Senate election in Missouri, 2012, US Representative Todd Akin commented on abortion exceptions for rape victims: "I understand from doctors,
A new Arkansas law allows rapists to sue their victims to stop an abortion. [SEP] Political positions of Mike Huckabee // the state would be required to stop accepting Medicaid benefits from the federal government due to a discrepancy between state and federal law. Arkansas voters had approved a 1988 amendment to the state constitution banning public funding for abortions except to save the life of the mother. This was in harmony with the federal law at the time. Federal laws changed in 1993, mandating that Medicaid funds also be used for abortions in cases of rape and incest. This caused an abortion opponent to file a lawsuit asking that Arkansas be forced to withdraw from Medicaid. The state contended that
A new Arkansas law allows rapists to sue their victims to stop an abortion. [SEP] War on Women // Under the language of the bill, only cases of "forcible rape" or child sexual abuse would have qualified. Political activist groups Moveon.org and Emily's List charged that this constituted a Republican attempt to "redefine rape". In 2014, Michigan law prohibited all public and most private insurers from covering abortions including in cases of rape and incest. It requires women to buy separate insurance and has been called "rape insurance" by opponents because of the possibility that women will need to have separate insurance for an abortion resulting from rape. Unsuccessful Missouri Republican candidate to the U.S. Senate Todd Akin made
A new Arkansas law allows rapists to sue their victims to stop an abortion. [SEP] Roe v. Wade // that she had been raped in order to obtain a legal abortion (with the understanding that Texas law allowed abortion in cases of rape and incest). However, this scheme failed because there was no police report documenting the alleged rape. In any case, the Texas statute allowed abortion only ”for the purpose of saving the life of the mother”. She attempted to obtain an Illegal abortion, but found that the unauthorized facility had been closed down by the police. Eventually, she was referred to attorneys Linda Coffee and Sarah Weddington. (McCorvey would end up giving birth before the case was
A new Arkansas law allows rapists to sue their victims to stop an abortion. [SEP] Rape and pregnancy statement controversies in United States elections, 2012 // this is a rarity, if ever." In 1998, Arkansas state senator Fay Boozman lost a campaign for a US Senate seat after saying that fear-induced hormonal changes made rape victims unlikely to become pregnant. Todd Akin, a long-time anti-abortion activist, served as a Republican member of the House of Representatives for Missouri's 2nd congressional district from 2001 until 2013. On August 7, 2012, Akin won the Republican primary to become his party's nominee for the U.S. Senate election in Missouri. On August 19, Akin said that victims of what he termed "legitimate rape" rarely become pregnant. He said this during
A new Arkansas law allows rapists to sue their victims to stop an abortion. [SEP] Arkansas Advocates for Children and Families // that would allow police officers to stop, arrest, and interrogate children without notifying their parents in 1994. Prosecutors were in favor of the bill, saying it was necessary for police at crime scenes to question children who might be witnesses or suspects. The Arkansas Advocates for Children and Families said the bill was clearly unconstitutional because minors lack the legal understanding to waive their constitutional rights without consulting an adult adviser such as their parents. In 1997, Arkansas Advocates for Children and Families advocated for increasing the number of eligible children participating in the summer lunch program. The group said
A new Arkansas law allows rapists to sue their victims to stop an abortion. [SEP] Political positions of Mike Huckabee // "Roe v. Wade" were repealed. In a 2006 interview, Huckabee said that the legality of abortion "should be left to the states." However, in November 2007 he told Fox News that the federal government should outlaw abortion, stating, "For those of us for whom this is a moral question, you can't simply have 50 different versions of what's right". In one 1996 case, the abortion clinic that performed an abortion on a 15-year-old Arkansas girl who was allegedly raped by her stepfather was denied Medicaid reimbursement by Huckabee. The State of Arkansas was involved in a lawsuit to determine whether
A new Arkansas law allows rapists to sue their victims to stop an abortion. [SEP] William Harrison (physician) // Supreme Court decision in "Roe v. Wade", Harrison began offering abortion services to his patients starting in 1974, though at the time he primarily performed handled births, delivering more than 6,000 babies through his practice. As the years progressed, he started to see more women looking for an abortion and he ultimately gave up delivering babies. He wanted to provide his patients with a safe option to terminate pregnancy and started getting more patients as other doctors in Northwest Arkansas abandoned the procedure. In data provided by NARAL Pro-Choice America in 2010, 97% of counties in Arkansas had no abortion
A new Arkansas law allows rapists to sue their victims to stop an abortion. [SEP] Fetal heartbeat bill // on March 4, 2014. In doing so they became the first state to pass such a bill. The bill later died in committee. A fetal heartbeat bill, banning abortion after twelve weeks, was passed on January 31, 2013 by the Arkansas Senate, vetoed in Arkansas by Governor Mike Beebe, but, on March 6, 2013, his veto was overridden by the Arkansas House of Representatives. A federal judge issued a temporary injunction against the Arkansas law in May 2013, and in March 2014, it was struck down by federal judge Susan Webber Wright, who described the law as unconstitutional. On May
Image of a COVID-19 anti-lockdown protester's sign calling to re-open "Pennslvania" and referencing "we the peaple" is not doctored or altered in any way. [SEP] Trying to Trash Betsy DeVos // in graffiti in addition to an anarchy symbol. The abbreviation for the National Education Association is also written on the lefthand side. The cartoon was published online on 13 February 2017 on the GoComics website in addition to multiple newspapers. It was also published on the website of the "Belleville News-Democrat". Commentators point out that political cartoon draws directly upon "The Problem We All Live With" by Norman Rockwell, which depicts Ruby Bridges being escorted to school as a child during a time when crowds of white protestors would actively prevent desegregation efforts initiated by the "Brown v. Board of
Image of a COVID-19 anti-lockdown protester's sign calling to re-open "Pennslvania" and referencing "we the peaple" is not doctored or altered in any way. [SEP] Occupy Harvard // preventing free flow of people and dialogue. Faculty supporters published open letters to Harvard President Drew Faust asking her to reopen the gates. One group of professors connected to Romance Language programs at Harvard wrote: We sympathize with your difficult position, but all of us agree that locking the gates is contrary to the principle of open inquiry for which the university stands. Historically, Harvard has never locked its gates (at least, not in recent memory), and we believe that security issues can be addressed differently. We do not share the perception that the Occupy movement constitutes a threat to
Image of a COVID-19 anti-lockdown protester's sign calling to re-open "Pennslvania" and referencing "we the peaple" is not doctored or altered in any way. [SEP] Charters of Freedom // sent to the states are lost. But on inspection of one of the remaining copies held at the National Archives, there is an apparent spelling error in the original parchment Constitution, in the so-called Export Clause of on page 2, where the possessive pronoun "its" appears to be spelled with an apostrophe, turning it into "it's". However, the letters "t" and "s" are connected, and the mark interpreted as an apostrophe is somewhat inconspicuous; different U.S. government sources have transcribed this phrase with and without the apostrophe. The spelling "Pensylvania" is used in the list of signatories at the bottom
Image of a COVID-19 anti-lockdown protester's sign calling to re-open "Pennslvania" and referencing "we the peaple" is not doctored or altered in any way. [SEP] Zap (action) // down the sign, he put up more signs made of cardboard, harassed the gay customers inside, refused service to them, ordered them out of the restaurant and eventually assaulted a customer and called the sheriff. After several hours and consultation with the sheriff's department, the original wooden sign was taken down and stored out of sight and the new cardboard signs were removed and distributed among the demonstrators. Encouraged by GAA co-founder Arthur Bell, in his capacity as a columnist for "The Village Voice", activists employed zaps against William Friedkin and the cast and crew of the 1980 film "Cruising".
Image of a COVID-19 anti-lockdown protester's sign calling to re-open "Pennslvania" and referencing "we the peaple" is not doctored or altered in any way. [SEP] Rugby Road // in white. The Irish patriots responded by changing the word "Queen" to "Green", and the tradition took off from there. Today, many University organizations paint the bridge to promote their activities. Some legal and censorship issues have arisen concerning messages and graffiti displayed on Beta Bridge. The bridge is technically property of the city of Charlottesville, and in 1971, five fraternity members were arrested by city police after painting the bridge. Since then, the city has gradually ceded more freedom to students, and messages concerning everything from gay rights to violence against women, career services announcements, memorials for deaths in
Image of a COVID-19 anti-lockdown protester's sign calling to re-open "Pennslvania" and referencing "we the peaple" is not doctored or altered in any way. [SEP] Anti-WEF protests in Switzerland, January 2003 // protester wearing a mask of Donald Rumsfeld and a yellow, six-pointed cardboard "sheriff" badge is portrayed carrying the golden calf, and next to him, another protester impersonating Ariel Sharon is wielding a plastic club. The Rumsfeld character's badge was misinterpreted as alluding to the Star of David, or even to Nazi concentration camp badges, an interpretation that arose because low-resolution versions of the image were circulated in news reports, where the "sheriff" text on the star was not legible. Anti-WEF protests in Switzerland, January 2003 The World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland (January, 2003) triggered anti-globalization protests across Switzerland. Access
Image of a COVID-19 anti-lockdown protester's sign calling to re-open "Pennslvania" and referencing "we the peaple" is not doctored or altered in any way. [SEP] Valparaiso University // and was meant to show solidarity of the Valparaiso students with members of the Ferguson community. Artistic Protest On December 9, 2014, an anonymous group, who had claimed to be Valparaiso University students, placed plastic bags and signs that read "I can't breathe", "Black lives matter", and "All lives matter" on the heads of the "Borders" statutes, created by Steinunn Thorarinsdottir, that are placed around campus. These signs were placed in light of the recent deaths of Eric Garner and Michael Brown. The artistic protest was meant to raise awareness of institutional racism. Religious Freedom Restoration Act March In Spring
Image of a COVID-19 anti-lockdown protester's sign calling to re-open "Pennslvania" and referencing "we the peaple" is not doctored or altered in any way. [SEP] Ole Miss riot of 1962 // gate, a white mob attacked his staff car and set it on fire. Billingslea, the Deputy Commanding General John Corley, and aide, Capt Harold Lyon, were trapped inside the burning car, but they forced the door open, then crawled 200 yards under gunfire from the mob to the University Lyceum Building. The army did not return this fire. To keep control, Gen Billingslea had established a series of escalating secret code words for issuing ammunition down to the platoons, a second one for issuing it to squads, and a third one for loading, none of which could take place without
Image of a COVID-19 anti-lockdown protester's sign calling to re-open "Pennslvania" and referencing "we the peaple" is not doctored or altered in any way. [SEP] 2015 Baltimore protests // Woodlawn Cemetery in Baltimore County, Maryland. A photograph of the April 25 rioters standing on a Baltimore police car was superimposed with the text "All HighSchools Monday @3 We Are Going To Purge From Mondawmin To The Ave, Back To Downtown #Fdl" ("Purge" being a reference to the film series) and distributed on social media and as flyers. In response, Mondawmin Mall was closed at 2:15 p.m. and police in riot gear were deployed to the area. In preparation for the 'purge' police shut down the Mondawmin metro stop and also blockaded many of the nearby streets. As a result,
Image of a COVID-19 anti-lockdown protester's sign calling to re-open "Pennslvania" and referencing "we the peaple" is not doctored or altered in any way. [SEP] South Park Blocks // members who had formally joined the strike, Portland State University was forced to close from May 6 to 11. By May 6, the protesters formed an underground newspaper, called the "Wallposter", and had four demands: "U.S. out of S.E. Asia now; troops, cops off campus; free Bobby Seale; detoxify nerve gas." Posters with a logo were printed in the PSU Smith Center cafeteria, but protesters were evicted from the area by May 7 after a "wild, all-night party". On May 11, police officers charged protesters and forcibly removed a symbolic hospital tent (a geodesic dome) placed on the blocks. 28
An anti-seat belt law advocate was killed in automobile accident. [SEP] Seat belt legislation // but low enforcement ♣ - definitely introduced by this date, possibly earlier Studies by road safety authorities conclude that seat belt legislation has reduced the number of casualties in road accidents. Experiments using both crash test dummies and human cadavers also indicated that wearing seat belts should lead to reduced risk of death and injury in car crashes. Studies of accident outcomes suggest that fatality rates among car occupants are reduced by between 30 and 50 percent if seat belts are worn. The US National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) estimates that death risks for a driver wearing a lap-shoulder
An anti-seat belt law advocate was killed in automobile accident. [SEP] Williamson v. Mazda Motor of America, Inc. // "jackknife" over her lap belt, causing internal bleeding and eventual fatal injuries. Delbert and his daughter Alexa both survived the accident because of the type 2 seat belt they were able to use in their seated position. The survivors, Delbert and Alexa, brought the tort suit against Mazda in a California state court claiming that the van had a defective design because it was equipped with lap-only seat belts in the back seats, including where Thanh was sitting. Mazda responded with an argument in regards to the 1989 version of FMVSS 208 which preempted any state law tort claims and
An anti-seat belt law advocate was killed in automobile accident. [SEP] Kristie's Law // days later. June of that year, the Prianos filed a wrongful-death lawsuit against the Cronn family and the Chico Police Department alleging that the agency was ultimately responsible for the car crash that claimed Kristie's life. The lawsuit was dismissed because according to a 1987 state law, California Vehicle Code 17004.7, "A public agency employing peace officers ...is immune from liability for civil damages for personal injury to or death of any person ...resulting from the collision of a vehicle being operated by an actual or suspected violator of the law..." The Prianos approached California State Senator Sam Aanestad, R-Grass
An anti-seat belt law advocate was killed in automobile accident. [SEP] Norman J. Levy // seatbelt law which was the first one in the United States. He also sponsored zero tolerance legislation that prohibited drivers under the age of 21 from operating a motor vehicle after consuming any amount of alcohol. In June 1997, Levy had emergency brain surgery. He died in Albany, New York, of a complications from a brain tumor. In August 1998, signs were installed along the Meadowbrook State Parkway dedicating the road in honor of Levy for his role in sponsoring seat belt legislation. The new signs were unveiled in a ceremony in the median of the parkway just south of
An anti-seat belt law advocate was killed in automobile accident. [SEP] Ryan Bennett (sportscaster) // was partially ejected from the vehicle, and died instantly. All six occupants had been wearing seat belts at the time of the accident, confirmed investigating officer Trooper Shields, who described Bennett's death as "instantaneous" after he had been propelled outside the vehicle's A-pillar and exposed to the external portion of the vehicle. Shields dispelled the rumor that a blown tire had been the catalyst of the accident. "It's apparent that all the tires were up when the vehicle took its first turn and then skid back in." Ryan Bennett (sportscaster) Ryan Bennett (August 20, 1970 – May 31, 2006) was
An anti-seat belt law advocate was killed in automobile accident. [SEP] Brian Cole (baseball) // median. Cole, who was not wearing his seat belt, was ejected from the car causing major injuries to his skull, brain, lungs and several other organs. He was taken to Jackson Memorial Hospital where he was pronounced dead a few hours later. His cousin was also in the car, but was wearing a seat belt and avoided serious injury. In 2010, his family won $131 million in a lawsuit filed against the Ford Motor Company, claiming that the Ford Explorer (the car Cole was driving) is "defective and unreasonably dangerous for the uses for which it was marketed because the
An anti-seat belt law advocate was killed in automobile accident. [SEP] Seat belt // about his from his care of the high number of head injuries coming through the emergency room. He investigated the early seat belts whose primitive designs were implicated in these injuries and deaths. To reduce the high level of injuries he was seeing, he proposed, in late 1955, retractable seat belts, recessed steering wheels, reinforced roofs, roll bars, automatic door locks, and passive restraints such as the air bag. Subsequently, in 1966, Congress passed the National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act requiring all automobiles to comply with certain safety standards. American car manufacturers Nash (in 1949) and Ford (in
An anti-seat belt law advocate was killed in automobile accident. [SEP] Seat belt legislation // argued that seat belt legislation was "coercive" and that "a mandatory-seat-belt law violates the right to bodily privacy and self-control". A counterpoint to the libertarian view is that by reducing death and serious injury, mandatory seat belt use and enforcement of seat belt laws results in substantial social benefits. For example, an analysis by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention found that in 2010 non-fatal injuries to motor vehicle occupants cost the United States $48 billion in medical expenses and lost work. An example is an unbelted driver who kills or injures another road user because he/she slides out
An anti-seat belt law advocate was killed in automobile accident. [SEP] John D. States // afforded by seat belts. In 1966, he developed the first set of automobile safety standards. In 1970, he developed an improved shoulder harness to restrain the upper body and prevent injuries that occur when the occupant hits the dashboard or windshield. States drafted the New York State seat belt law in 1983, the first such law in the US. Similar laws have now been adopted in 49 states, and the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration credits these laws with dramatically increasing seat belt use and decreasing injuries and fatalities from traffic accidents. States received the Distinguished Career Award from the
An anti-seat belt law advocate was killed in automobile accident. [SEP] Siani Lee // was driving her Mercedes in Schuylkill Township, Chester County, Pennsylvania when she went through a stop sign at a major intersection. She was hit on the driver's side in a head-on collision. Lee was not wearing a seat belt at the time and was pronounced dead at the scene from severe neck and head trauma. Lee was the President of the Philadelphia chapter of the Asian American Journalists Association and was the first Asian American to anchor in the Philadelphia market. She served on the board of directors at MANNA, an agency which provided food to AIDS patients. Lee was
House Speaker Dean Cannon says that freshmen lawmakers account for one-third of the 120-member House, and that two-thirds of the chamber have two years or less experience. [SEP] Oklahoma House of Representatives // the 101 seats. This also includes the largest ever freshman class, with 46 new representatives. The Oklahoma House and the Oklahoma Senate are responsible for introducing and voting on bills and resolutions, providing legislative oversight for state agencies, and helping to craft the state's budget. Every ten years, legislators are responsible for designating new district boundaries for state electoral districts, along with Congressional districts. The governor must sign these bills into law, or a statewide panel convenes to draw the disputed lines. Legislators, with staff support, develop and file bills prior to the legislative session. Bill sponsors submit requests for
House Speaker Dean Cannon says that freshmen lawmakers account for one-third of the 120-member House, and that two-thirds of the chamber have two years or less experience. [SEP] Tennessee House of Representatives // the Senate, the directors of the offices of Legislative Information Services, Legal Services, Legislative Administration, and Legislative Budget Analysis. Additionally, the Speaker is in charge of all facilities, professional and clerical staff, and custodians and security personnel of the House. The current Speaker is Beth Harwell of Nashville. Among Republicans, around 30% of all members hold no degree beyond high school completion, less than 20% hold a Master's or other post baccalaureate degree, and less than 10% have a law degree. Among Democrats, less than 15% of all members hold no degree beyond high school, 33% hold a Master's or
House Speaker Dean Cannon says that freshmen lawmakers account for one-third of the 120-member House, and that two-thirds of the chamber have two years or less experience. [SEP] Spice Boys (Congressmen) // the 220-seat Lower House. About a fifth of its members were under 40 years of age, roughly equivalent to Generation X. This influx of young blood changed the way legislative business was undertaken and the image of the Filipino politician, most of whom were derided as "trapos" or "TRAditional POliticians". Incidentally, the Spanish word "trapo" means "rag", as in rag doll or dish rag. After the Lakas-NUCD party was reduced to 25 members at the height of the Charter-change debate in 1999 and became the minority bloc in the House, six young congressmen became media sensations due to their fervent
House Speaker Dean Cannon says that freshmen lawmakers account for one-third of the 120-member House, and that two-thirds of the chamber have two years or less experience. [SEP] Indiana General Assembly // are located in the west wing of the second floor of the Indiana Statehouse, and the Senate chambers are on the west wing of the third floor. The Indiana House of Representatives consists of 100 members elected to two-year terms. The Speaker of the House for the 2015–2016 term is Representative Brian C. Bosma. In 2015, the House of Representatives has a Republican majority of 70 seats, while the Democrats have 30 seats. The House offices are located in the east wing of the second floor of the Indiana Statehouse and the House chambers are on the third floor. Indiana's
House Speaker Dean Cannon says that freshmen lawmakers account for one-third of the 120-member House, and that two-thirds of the chamber have two years or less experience. [SEP] Chamber of Representatives (Belgium) // Chamber of Representatives is composed of the President, the Vice-Presidents, the Secretaries and the floor leaders of the fractions with at least five members. The fractions that have at least 12 members and have no President, Vice-President or Secretary sitting on the Bureau can appoint an additional member. The Bureau is elected for the duration of one parliamentary term, but in practice the composition of the Bureau remains the same for the entire duration of the legislature, which is four years, unless the Federal Parliament is dissolved early. The Bureau is responsible for the management of the Chamber of Representatives.
House Speaker Dean Cannon says that freshmen lawmakers account for one-third of the 120-member House, and that two-thirds of the chamber have two years or less experience. [SEP] Constitution Act, 1867 // or prolonged absence (47). A speaker is required to preside at all sittings of the house (46). Quorum for the house was set at 20 members, including the speaker by Section 48. Section 49 says that the speaker cannot vote except in the case of a tied vote. The maximum term for a house is five years between elections under Section 50. Section 51 sets out the rules by which commons seats are to be redistributed following censuses, allowing for more seats to be added by section 52. "Money bills" (dealing with taxes or appropriation of funds) must originate in
House Speaker Dean Cannon says that freshmen lawmakers account for one-third of the 120-member House, and that two-thirds of the chamber have two years or less experience. [SEP] United States House of Representatives // referred to in the third person. In most cases, members do not refer to each other only by name, but also by state, using forms such as "the gentleman from Virginia", "the distinguished gentlewoman from California", or "my distinguished friend from Alabama". There are 448 permanent seats on the House Floor and four tables, two on each side. These tables are occupied by members of the committee that have brought a bill to the floor for consideration and by the respective party leadership. Members address the House from microphones at any table or "the well," the area immediately in front
House Speaker Dean Cannon says that freshmen lawmakers account for one-third of the 120-member House, and that two-thirds of the chamber have two years or less experience. [SEP] Alabama House of Representatives // composed of 105 members, chosen from an equal number of districts across the state. Each member represents a district of approximately 42,000 people, and is elected to a four-year term. Members of the House at the time of their election must have been citizens of Alabama for three years, and have lived in their respective districts for at least one year immediately preceding their election. The Speaker of the House is a member of the body and is elected by his colleagues to serve as its presiding officer. Members of the House are paid a salary of ten dollars per
House Speaker Dean Cannon says that freshmen lawmakers account for one-third of the 120-member House, and that two-thirds of the chamber have two years or less experience. [SEP] U.S. representative bibliography (congressional memoirs) // re-pass the legislation with a two-thirds majority in each chamber). Each state receives representation in the House in proportion to its population but is entitled to at least one representative. The total number of voting representatives is fixed by law at 435. Each representative serves for a two-year term. The Speaker of the United States House of Representatives, traditionally the leader of the majority party, is the presiding officer of the chamber, elected by the members of the House. U.S. representative bibliography (congressional memoirs) This is a bibliography of U.S. congressional memoirs by former and current U.S. Representatives. The United
House Speaker Dean Cannon says that freshmen lawmakers account for one-third of the 120-member House, and that two-thirds of the chamber have two years or less experience. [SEP] Arkansas House of Representatives // in even number years, at the State Capitol in Little Rock. The Speaker of the House presides over the body and is elected by the membership every two years. Its duties include the supervision and directing the daily order of business, recognizing members to speak, preserving order in the House, deciding all questions of order and germaneness, certifying all measures passed, assigning committee leadership, and naming members to select committees. In the Speaker's absence, the Speaker Pro Tempore presides. The House has 10 Standing Committees: CLASS A CLASS B HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEES JOINT COMMITTEES CURRENT COMMITTEES INCLUDE: Each Representative serves
Wikileaks documents reveal Hillary Clinton was gravely injured in a plane crash during a secret mission to Iran in 2012. [SEP] 2012 Benghazi attack // 2012, Senator John McCain said that the surveillance tapes had been classified top secret. Secretary Clinton was scheduled to testify before Congress on December 20 about the attack. On December 15, it was reported that she had become dehydrated from the flu, fainted, and sustained a concussion. Consequently, her testimony was postponed. The incident prompted Republican Rep. Allen West to claim that the illness was a ruse intended to avoid testifying. Former UN Ambassador John Bolton called the concussion a "diplomatic illness". On January 23, 2013, during testimony at a Senate hearing on Benghazi, Clinton engaged in a heated exchange
Wikileaks documents reveal Hillary Clinton was gravely injured in a plane crash during a secret mission to Iran in 2012. [SEP] John R. Bolton // I would not read cosmic consequences into it." Bolton caused a controversy on December 17, 2012, when he claimed on Greta Van Susteren's show on Fox News that Secretary of State Hillary Clinton faked a concussion to avoid testifying before Congress regarding the attack on the U.S. Consulate in Benghazi, Libya, on September 11, 2012, that killed four Americans including the sitting ambassador. Bolton stated "When you don't want to go to a meeting or conference or an event you have a 'diplomatic illness'. And this is a diplomatic illness to beat the band." In 2010, he wrote a foreword
Wikileaks documents reveal Hillary Clinton was gravely injured in a plane crash during a secret mission to Iran in 2012. [SEP] Hillary Clinton // training vetted groups of Syrian rebels, but the proposal was rejected by the White House officials who were reluctant to become entangled in the conflict and who feared that extremists hidden among the rebels might turn the weapons against other targets. In December 2012, Clinton was hospitalized for a few days for treatment of a blood clot in her right transverse venous sinus. Her doctors had discovered the clot during a follow-up examination for a concussion she had sustained when she fainted and fell nearly three weeks earlier, as a result of severe dehydration from a viral intestinal ailment acquired
Wikileaks documents reveal Hillary Clinton was gravely injured in a plane crash during a secret mission to Iran in 2012. [SEP] Julian Assange // Press, to rest the "conspiracy theory, carefully nurtured by Assange and his supporters, that slain DNC staffer Seth Rich was at the origin of the leaks." On 4 July 2016, during the Democratic Party presidential primaries, WikiLeaks hosted information and content of emails sent or received by candidate Hillary Clinton from her private email server when she was Secretary of State, as originally released by the State Department in February 2016, based on a FOIA request. On 22 July 2016, WikiLeaks released emails and documents from the Democratic National Committee (DNC) seemingly presenting ways to undercut Bernie Sanders and showing
Wikileaks documents reveal Hillary Clinton was gravely injured in a plane crash during a secret mission to Iran in 2012. [SEP] Hard Choices // Benghazi attack – in which the U.S. diplomatic mission in Benghazi, Libya, was attacked, resulting in the deaths of the U.S. ambassador to that country, J. Christopher Stevens, and three other Americans – was leaked to "Politico". It reiterates the explanations for what happened that Clinton and her supporters had previously made. Clinton also delves into some personal aspects of her life and career, including getting past any hard feelings towards Obama from her 2008 presidential campaign, events in her family including her daughter Chelsea Clinton's wedding, and glimpses of personal interaction with citizens of other countries during her travels
Wikileaks documents reveal Hillary Clinton was gravely injured in a plane crash during a secret mission to Iran in 2012. [SEP] Hillary Clinton's tenure as Secretary of State // foreign diplomats became public. Clinton led the damage control effort for the U.S. abroad, and also sought to bolster the morale of shocked Foreign Service officers. In the days leading up to the publication of the cables, Clinton called officials in Germany, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, Britain, France, Afghanistan, Canada, and China to alert them to the pending disclosures. She did note that some foreign leaders were accepting of the frank language of the cables, with one telling her, "Don't worry about it. You should see what we say about you." She harshly criticized WikiLeaks, saying: "Let's be
Wikileaks documents reveal Hillary Clinton was gravely injured in a plane crash during a secret mission to Iran in 2012. [SEP] Hillary Clinton's tenure as Secretary of State // Hamas in Gaza. When the 2012 Egyptian protests against Morsi broke out shortly thereafter, Clinton said that it showed how a dialogue between both sides was immediately needed on how to reshape that nation's constitution. In mid-December, Clinton fell victim to a stomach virus contracted on a trip to Europe. She subsequently became very dehydrated and then fainted, suffering a mild concussion. As a result, she cancelled another trip and scratched an appearance at scheduled Congressional hearings on the Benghazi matter. A few conservative figures, including Congressman Allen West and Ambassador to the UN John R. Bolton, accused Clinton of
Wikileaks documents reveal Hillary Clinton was gravely injured in a plane crash during a secret mission to Iran in 2012. [SEP] WikiLeaks // which suggested Clinton campaign chairperson John Podesta engaged in satanic rituals (which was later revealed to be false), implying that the Democratic Party had Seth Rich killed, suggesting that Clinton wore earpieces to debates and interviews, claiming that Hillary Clinton wanted to drone strike Assange, promoting conspiracy theories about Clinton's health, and promoting a conspiracy theory from a Donald Trump–related Internet community tying the Clinton campaign to child kidnapper Laura Silsby. Short of simply disclosing information in the public interest, WikiLeaks has been accused of purposely targeting certain states and people, and presenting its disclosures in misleading and conspiratorial ways
Wikileaks documents reveal Hillary Clinton was gravely injured in a plane crash during a secret mission to Iran in 2012. [SEP] Alissa J. Rubin // crash killed the helicopter’s pilot and injured others, including Vian Dakhil, a Yazidi member of Iraq’s parliament. Rubin won the 2016 Pulitzer Prize for International Reporting for "thoroughly reported and movingly written accounts giving voice to Afghan women who were forced to endure unspeakable cruelties." In 2015 she won the John Chancellor Award from the Columbia Journalism School for her career of 35 years reporting on Iraq, Afghanistan and the Balkans. Rubin won an Alicia Patterson Journalism Fellowship in 1992 writing about the reality versus politics of abortion in the 1990s. Alissa J. Rubin Alissa Johannsen Rubin is an American
Wikileaks documents reveal Hillary Clinton was gravely injured in a plane crash during a secret mission to Iran in 2012. [SEP] Commerce Department trade mission controversy // being rewarded accordingly. However a 1996 analysis by the nonpartisan but liberal-leaning Center for Public Integrity found that Democratic contributors only filled a third of the available trip seats, and many of those made contributions to Republicans as well. Secretary Brown died on a trade mission to Croatia, when the government plane he was on flew into a mountainside on April 3 in the 1996 Croatia USAF CT-43 crash. This led to conservative accusations that Clinton had Brown murdered; U.S. Attorney General Janet Reno and others scoffed at this conspiracy theory. Soon after, Nolanda Hill declared that she had been
“Smoking in cars with children is illegal starting January 30, 2018.” [SEP] Smoking bans in private vehicles // in private vehicles with minors under the age of 12 has been voted. On 6 January 2010, a federal law (superseding the smoking bans which already existed in most of the emirates) was signed. Among other provisions, it introduces a Smoking ban in private vehicles in the presence of children under the age of 12. On 1 October 2015, smoking in vehicles with passengers under 18 was banned in England and Wales, except in convertibles. It is also illegal for drivers under the age of 18 to allow other passengers to smoke in their car, regardless of their age –
“Smoking in cars with children is illegal starting January 30, 2018.” [SEP] Smoking bans in private vehicles // banned in all vehicles carrying passengers under the age of 18. Drivers under the age of 18 (the legal driving age in Jersey is 17) are also forbidden to smoke whilst in their own vehicles, even if they are the only passengers. The law came into force on 1 September 2015, after debate in the States Assembly and is the first place in the British Isles to enact a ban of this sort. A smoking ban in cars with children is being tested in the states of Arkansas (<14), California (<18), Louisiana (<13), Maine (<16), Oregon (<18), Puerto Rico (<13),
“Smoking in cars with children is illegal starting January 30, 2018.” [SEP] Smoking in Ireland // January 1st 2016, regulations make it an offence for a person to smoke in a private vehicle when there is more than one person present and there is a person under the age of 18 present. The offence would fall on the person smoking regardless of their age. The senator and oncologist John Crown put a bill before parliament in 2012 to ban smoking in a car with children. This bill was passed into law in December 2014 with an expectation that enforcement by Gardaí would commence in 2015. Smoking in Ireland Smoking in Ireland is banned fully in the
“Smoking in cars with children is illegal starting January 30, 2018.” [SEP] Smoking bans in private vehicles // existed since 1 January 2008. There is a AUD $110 on the spot fine. In Victoria a smoking ban in cars with minors under the age of 18 has existed since 1 January 2010. In Western Australia a smoking ban in cars with minors under the age of 17 has existed since 22 September 2010. In the Northern Territory a smoking ban in cars with minors under the age of 16 has existed since December 2014, the last jurisdiction in Australia to do so. Since 13 April 2009, smoking in cars with accompanying children is banned in Bahrain. Smoking with
“Smoking in cars with children is illegal starting January 30, 2018.” [SEP] Smoking bans in private vehicles // Utah (<15), Vermont (<8), and Virginia (<8). It is banned in certain counties and cities of Hawaii, Indiana, Kansas, New Jersey, New York, Kentucky, and Alabama. Finland intends to ban smoking in cars while children are present. Furthermore, smoking in places where children are present is to be banned generally. Greece is about to ban smoking in cars. Irish anti-smoking campaigners and scientists are urging the government to introduce such a ban. In July 2011 the Minister for Health revealed that he was considering a ban where children are present in the car. The senator and oncologist John Crown has
“Smoking in cars with children is illegal starting January 30, 2018.” [SEP] Tobacco 21 // 21 bill on November 19, 2015 and quickly put it into effect a week later on November 26. In December 2015, Cleveland passed a local ordinance to ban the sale of tobacco and nicotine products to any persons under the age of 21. The law went into effect on April 14, 2016. In March 2016, San Francisco joined the ranks of major American cities to pass an ordinance to raise the tobacco and nicotine sales age to 21. The ordinance went into effect on June 1, 2016. Eight days later, California's Tobacco 21 bill went into effect statewide A similar
“Smoking in cars with children is illegal starting January 30, 2018.” [SEP] Smoking bans in private vehicles // anyone under the age of 16 present in a vehicle is currently banned in the Provinces of Alberta, British Columbia, Newfoundland and Labrador, Manitoba, Ontario, New Brunswick, Prince Edward Island, Saskatchewan and Yukon Territory. Smoking is banned in vehicles with persons under the age of 19 present in Nova Scotia. On Cyprus smoking in vehicles with minors under the age of 16 is prohibited. It is forbidden to smoke in private vehicles in the presence of children under the age of 12 since 2015. On Mauritius smoking is prohibited in any car carrying passengers, since 2008. A law prohibiting smoking
“Smoking in cars with children is illegal starting January 30, 2018.” [SEP] Dokha // (including dokha) 18 years old. The law also made smoking in cars (with children under 12 present), houses of worship, educational campuses and health/fitness centers, illegal. This law was expanded in 2012 by adopting GSO standards that require tobacco packaging warning messages. In October 2015, the Dubai Municipality issued warnings to 40 dokha shops to obtain certificates of conformity from the UAE Authority for Standardization and Meteorology . The shops were required to discontinue the practices of allowing customers to sample dokha in the shop and cleaning their midwakh pipes for them in order to obtain these certificates. Despite these
“Smoking in cars with children is illegal starting January 30, 2018.” [SEP] Smoking bans in private vehicles // put bill before parliament to ban smoking in a car with children. In Israel the introduction of a smoking ban in cars is being discussed in the Knesset. Similar plans exist in the Netherlands. Taiwan plans to ban smoking while driving a car, riding a bike or walking on a sidewalk. The rationale is the concern about traffic security and air pollution. Smoking bans in private vehicles Smoking bans in private vehicles are enacted to protect passengers from secondhand smoke and to increase road traffic safety, e.g. by preventing the driver from being distracted by the act of smoking. Private
“Smoking in cars with children is illegal starting January 30, 2018.” [SEP] Smoking bans in private vehicles // however drivers under the age of 18 will be permitted to smoke in their car as long as no passengers are present. It is a criminal offence for any driver to fail to stop a passenger illegally smoking in the car while a passenger under the age of 18 is present. Bans are not yet in force in Scotland or Northern Ireland. Smoking is not allowed in work vehicles that more than one person uses. Smoking in company cars is allowed, provided that there is only one user of the car and the employer allows. In Jersey smoking has been
Stem Cell Injection May Soon Reverse Vision Loss Caused By Age-Related Macular Degeneration [SEP] Choroideremia // choroideremia is an ideal candidate for gene therapy there are other potential therapies that could restore vision after it has been lost later in life. Foremost of these is stem cell therapy. A clinical trial published in 2014 found that a subretinal injection of human embryonic stem cells in patients with age-related macular degeneration and Stargardt disease was safe and improved vision in most patients. Out of 18 patients, vision improved in 10, improved or remained the same in 7, and decreased in 1 patient, while no improvement was seen in the untreated eyes. The study found "no evidence of
Stem Cell Injection May Soon Reverse Vision Loss Caused By Age-Related Macular Degeneration [SEP] Induced pluripotent stem cell // from six patients suffering from wet age-related macular degeneration were reprogrammed to differentiate into retinal pigment epithelial (RPE) cells. The cell sheet would be transplanted into the affected retina where the degenerated RPE tissue was excised. Safety and vision restoration monitoring were to last one to three years. In March 2017 a team led by Masayo Takahashi completed the first successful transplant of iPS-derived retinal cells from a donor into the eye of a person with advanced macular degeneration. However it was reported that they are now having complications. The benefits of using autologous iPSCs are that there is theoretically
Stem Cell Injection May Soon Reverse Vision Loss Caused By Age-Related Macular Degeneration [SEP] Human embryonic stem cells clinical trials // to restart the embryonic stem cell-based clinical trial for spinal cord injury. Two clinical trials involving derivatives of human embryonic stem cells were approved in 2010. Advanced Cell Technology (ACT) located in Marlborough, Massachusetts, leads the trials aimed at improving the vision of patients with Stargardt's Macular Dystrophy and Dry Age-Related Macular Degeneration. Originally, twelve patients were estimated to enroll at three hospitals in the U.S.; participating institutions included the Casey Eye Institute in Portland, Oregon, University of Massachusetts Memorial Medical Center in Worchester, Massachusetts, and the New Jersey Medical School in Newark, New Jersey. Patients' eyes were injected with
Stem Cell Injection May Soon Reverse Vision Loss Caused By Age-Related Macular Degeneration [SEP] Induced stem cells // iPSCs for cell therapy of the people with age-related macular degeneration, a disease causing blindness through retina damaging, will begin. There are several articles describing methods for producing retinal cells from iPSCs and how to use them for cell therapy. Reports of iPSC-derived retinal pigmented epithelium transplantation showed enhanced visual-guided behaviors of experimental animals for 6 weeks after transplantation. However, clinical trials have been successful: ten patients suffering from retinitis pigmentosa have had their eyesight restored – including a woman who had only 17 percent of her vision left. Chronic lung diseases such as idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis and cystic fibrosis
Stem Cell Injection May Soon Reverse Vision Loss Caused By Age-Related Macular Degeneration [SEP] Stem-cell therapy // cells with the use of embryonic stem cells. Since 2003, researchers have successfully transplanted corneal stem cells into damaged eyes to restore vision. "Sheets of retinal cells used by the team are harvested from aborted fetuses, which some people find objectionable." When these sheets are transplanted over the damaged cornea, the stem cells stimulate renewed repair, eventually restore vision. The latest such development was in June 2005, when researchers at the Queen Victoria Hospital of Sussex, England were able to restore the sight of forty people using the same technique. The group, led by Sheraz Daya, was able to successfully
Stem Cell Injection May Soon Reverse Vision Loss Caused By Age-Related Macular Degeneration [SEP] Mark S. Humayun // Europe. It was approved by the FDA in February 2013. The first USC Eye Institute patient received the implant post-FDA approval in June 2014, and saw light one week following activation of device. Humayun is one of two principal investigators working with USC Eye Institute researchers to study how to replace damaged retinal pigment epithelial (RPE) cells with stem cells to restore sight, a potential cure for age-related macular degeneration, the leading cause of permanent impairment of reading and fine or close-up vision among people aged 65 years and older. This research is funded by a grant from California Institute
Stem Cell Injection May Soon Reverse Vision Loss Caused By Age-Related Macular Degeneration [SEP] Acute visual loss // laser treatment to the iris may prevent blindness. Wet macular degeneration should be considered in older people with new distortion of their vision with bleeding in the macula. Vision can often be regained with prompt eye injections with anti-VEGF agents. Giant cell arteritis should be considered in an older person with jaw claudication, temporal pain, and feeling tired. Placing the person on steroids might save both their vision and decrease their risk of stroke. Without treatment a person can quickly go blind in both eyes. Acute visual loss Acute visual loss is a rapid loss of the ability to see.
Stem Cell Injection May Soon Reverse Vision Loss Caused By Age-Related Macular Degeneration [SEP] Foundation Fighting Blindness // who need it. Foundation-funded researchers are using stem cells derived from a variety of sources, including a person’s own skin, to create healthy retinal cells that can potentially restore vision. Stem cell treatments hold great promise for people with advanced vision loss. The Foundation is also funding clinical trials of a tiny innovative capsule that is inserted into the eye to slow vision loss from a variety of retinal degenerative diseases. The Foundation Fighting Blindness Clinical Research Institute works to accelerate the translation of laboratory-based research into clinical trials for treatments and cures of retinal degenerative diseases. As a support
Stem Cell Injection May Soon Reverse Vision Loss Caused By Age-Related Macular Degeneration [SEP] Stargardt disease // not restore impaired vision back to normal. The research is being undertaken by a partnership between Sanofi and Oxford BioMedica. A Lentiviral vector is used to deliverer normal genes to the eye via a subretinal injection. The therapy is known as SAR422459 and it is in Phase I/II trials at present (2018). Stem-cell therapy involves injecting cells with the potential to mature into differentiated and functioning retinal cells. This therapy has the potential stop disease progression and in the long term improve vision. To improve vision this technique will need to replicate the complex multi-layered and neurally anatomy of the
Stem Cell Injection May Soon Reverse Vision Loss Caused By Age-Related Macular Degeneration [SEP] Robert Lanza // proteins. Lanza's team at Advanced Cell Technology were able to generate retinal pigmented epithelium cells from stem cells, and subsequent studies found that these cells could restore vision in animal models of macular degeneration. In 2009 Geron became the first company that received approval for a clinical trial of an embryonic stem cell-based treatment for use in people with spinal cord injury; in 2010 ACT received the second FDA approval to use its ESC-based cell therapy for Stargardt disease. In 2011 ACT received approval in the UK to expand the Stargart trial there; this was the first approval to study
A national four-week quarantine will start on April 1 2020, affecting the entire population of the United States. [SEP] Quarantine L.A. // days, it kills more than 3/4 of the population causing a major panic outbreak all around the world. The U.S. government isolates the entire affected zone. By the middle of September, the structure of the virus strain begins to evolve into a human changing virus. The infected become rotting, corpse-like creatures with an unconditional hunger for human flesh. During the day, they hide from the sun. By night, they begin to hunt like animals. All efforts to search for survivors in the area were deemed futile. On November 26, a local news channel receives an exclusive video message from J.S.O.C.
A national four-week quarantine will start on April 1 2020, affecting the entire population of the United States. [SEP] Ebola virus cases in the United States // days before his diagnosis showed the guidelines, which includes urging health care workers and others who have had contact with Ebola patients to voluntarily quarantine themselves, were not enough. Late on October 26, Cuomo modified the state's quarantine procedure, stating that people entering New York who have had contact with Ebola patients in West Africa will be quarantined in their homes for the 21 days, with twice daily checks to ensure their health has not changed and that they are complying with the order, and would receive some compensation for lost wages, if any. President Obama and his staff had
A national four-week quarantine will start on April 1 2020, affecting the entire population of the United States. [SEP] 2009 Flu pandemic in North America // least May 5. Marcelo Ebrard, Mexico City's mayor, has also asked all night-life operators to shut down their places of business for ten days to prevent further infections. José Ángel Córdova, federal Secretary of Health, said on April 24 that schools will probably be suspended for at least the following week then, and that it will take around ten days to see the evolution of the virus' behavior, and to consider other measures after such. On April 25, President Felipe Calderón declared an emergency which granted him the power to suspend public events and order quarantines. Hours later, Córdova announced
A national four-week quarantine will start on April 1 2020, affecting the entire population of the United States. [SEP] 2009 Flu pandemic in North America // that classes in Mexico City would be officially suspended through May 6. On April 26, Natividad González Parás, governor of the northeastern State of Nuevo León, announced that statewide schools will remain closed until 6 May, and established a quarantine system in airports, central bus stations and the creation of observation points mainly in the southern part of the state at the nearest highways to the borders with other states, in order to realize tests conducted on people arriving from other states. However, as for April 27, there are no confirmed reported cases of infection in this state. On April
A national four-week quarantine will start on April 1 2020, affecting the entire population of the United States. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic by country // Mexico, and the state of San Luis Potosí would remain quarantined until at least 5 May. Marcelo Ebrard, Mexico City's mayor, asked all night-life operators to shut down their places of business for ten days to prevent further infections. On 25 April, President Felipe Calderón declared an emergency which granted him the power to suspend public events and order quarantines. On 26 April, the World Bank announced US$25 million in immediate aid loans to Mexico, an additional US$180 million for long-term assistance to address the outbreak, and advice on how other nations have responded to similar crises. On 27 April,
A national four-week quarantine will start on April 1 2020, affecting the entire population of the United States. [SEP] Ebola virus cases in the United States // Security Committee, to suspend issuing visas to travelers from the affected West African countries, including Liberia, Sierra Leone, and Guinea. On October 7, Connecticut governor Dannel Malloy signed an order authorizing the mandatory quarantine for 21 days of anyone, even if asymptomatic, who had direct contact with Ebola patients. Nine people were quarantined on October 22, in accordance with the Connecticut order. At a joint news conference on October 24, New York Governor Andrew Cuomo and New Jersey Governor Chris Christie announced that they were imposing a mandatory 21-day quarantine on all air travelers returning to New York and New
A national four-week quarantine will start on April 1 2020, affecting the entire population of the United States. [SEP] Public Health Reports // 1878 as the "Bulletins of the Public Health" under the National Quarantine Act of April 29, 1878, issued by the Supervising Surgeon-General at the time, John Maynard Woodworth. This act requested weekly reports of epidemic disease infections to be forwarded to Washington by the American consulates abroad. Publication was suspended after 46 issues on May 24, 1879 as a byproduct of the creation of the National Board of Health and its takeover of the Quarantine Act responsibilities. During this period, the Board of Health instead published the reports in its "National Board of Health Bulletin". The responsibility for the Quarantine
A national four-week quarantine will start on April 1 2020, affecting the entire population of the United States. [SEP] Ebola virus cases in the United States // and helps protect the rest of the world from the spread of this terrible disease; they are doing vitally important work that makes us all proud." U.S. Army Chief of Staff Ray Odierno also ordered on October 27 a 21-day quarantine of all soldiers returning from Operation United Assistance in Liberia. Up to 12 soldiers have been quarantined so far in a U.S. base in Italy. On November 13, President Obama issued a memorandum that protects contractors hired by the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) from liability should they import Ebola virus into the United States. "This authority may
A national four-week quarantine will start on April 1 2020, affecting the entire population of the United States. [SEP] Ebola virus epidemic in Sierra Leone // to this case WHO had advised, "we anticipate more flare-ups and must be prepared for them ... massive effort is underway to ensure robust prevention, surveillance and response capacity across all three countries by the end of March." On 16 January, it was reported that the woman who died of the virus may have exposed several individuals; the government announced that 100 people had been quarantined. On the same day, WHO released a statement, indicating that originally the 90-day enhanced surveillance period was to end on 5 February. Investigations indicate the female case was a student at Lunsar in Port
A national four-week quarantine will start on April 1 2020, affecting the entire population of the United States. [SEP] Quarantine // (seventeenth-century Venetian) of 'quaranta giorni', meaning forty days, the period that all ships were required to be isolated before passengers and crew could go ashore during the Black Death plague epidemic. Quarantine can be applied to humans, but also to animals of various kinds, and both as part of border control as well as within a country. The quarantining of people often raises questions of civil rights, especially in cases of long confinement or segregation from society, such as that of Mary Mallon (aka Typhoid Mary), a typhoid fever carrier who spent the last 24 years and 7 months her
Author J.K. Rowling promoted a website selling transphobic merchandise. [SEP] Legal disputes over the Harry Potter series // An Unauthorized Guide to Harry Potter Fiction". In November 2007, "The Scotsman" reported that Rowling had threatened legal action against American computer programmer G. Norman Lippert for allegedly violating her intellectual property rights by producing and publishing the online novel, "James Potter and the Hall of Elders' Crossing", an unofficial and unauthorised continuation of the "Harry Potter" series. Written as a fan fiction project for Lippert's wife and sons, the novel is set eighteen years after the end of the last official installment in the series, "Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows", and describes the adventures of Harry Potter's son,
Author J.K. Rowling promoted a website selling transphobic merchandise. [SEP] Warner Bros. Entertainment Inc. v. RDR Books // affirmative defense of fair use. The trial was held from 14–17 April 2008 in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. In September 2008, the court ruled in Rowling's favor, and publication of the book was blocked. In 2009, RDR Books released an edited volume, eliminating the problematic long quotes found to be infringing. In 2000, Steve Vander Ark, a librarian from Grand Rapids, Michigan, created the Harry Potter Lexicon, an online encyclopedia of the Harry Potter book series that collected and reorganized various facts from the novels into a searchable form. The Lexicon, which
Author J.K. Rowling promoted a website selling transphobic merchandise. [SEP] Warner Bros. Entertainment Inc. v. RDR Books // is non-profit, with only its operations paid for by advertising, quickly became a favorite for fans of the books, including Rowling herself, who claimed on her website that "I have been known to sneak into an internet cafe while out writing and check a fact rather than go into a bookshop and buy a copy of "Harry Potter", which is embarrassing." In August 2007, Vander Ark was contacted by Roger Rapoport, President of RDR Books, and asked about the possibility of publishing a for-profit print version of the site. Although Vander Ark had previously claimed he had no interest in
Author J.K. Rowling promoted a website selling transphobic merchandise. [SEP] Politics of J. K. Rowling // opposition to Mexico City Policy, when it was reinstated by Donald Trump, and said that she supported abortion rights, specially in Third World countries. Politics of J. K. Rowling British author J. K. Rowling is a noted philanthropist and maintains links on her website promoting Amnesty International, the Multiple sclerosis Society, One Parent Families, and Lumos (formerly the Children's High Level Group), which Rowling co-founded to advocate against the use of cage beds for mentally handicapped children. Rowling says her heroine is muckraker Jessica Mitford, whom Rowling describes as a "self-taught socialist". Rowling acknowledges being left-wing and said "there is
Author J.K. Rowling promoted a website selling transphobic merchandise. [SEP] Warner Bros. Entertainment Inc. v. RDR Books // plans to give to charity. A judge later barred publication of the book in any form until the case was resolved. In their suit, Rowling's lawyers also asserted that, as the book describes itself as a print facsimile of the Harry Potter Lexicon website, it would publish excerpts from the novels and stills from the films without offering sufficient "transformative" material to be considered a separate work. On her website, Rowling said, "Despite repeated requests, the publishers have refused to even countenance making any changes to the book to ensure that it does not infringe my rights." On his website,
Author J.K. Rowling promoted a website selling transphobic merchandise. [SEP] Melissa Anelli // was receiving over 500,000 hits per day. By November 2008, largely under Anelli's influence, the site became the second most popular English-language "Harry Potter" fansite, with over 1 million hits per day. In 2002, "Harry Potter" author J.K. Rowling announced that she would release a single index card containing 93 words that were clues to the content of the unreleased fifth novel in the series, "Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix". The index card would be auctioned, with all proceeds benefitting Book Aid International. Anelli organized a campaign to have fans combine their money to purchase the card.
Author J.K. Rowling promoted a website selling transphobic merchandise. [SEP] Legal disputes over the Harry Potter series // October 2007, Warner Bros. and Rowling sued Michigan-based publishing firm RDR Books to block the publication of a 400-page book version of the Harry Potter Lexicon, an online reference guide to her work. Rowling, who previously had a good relationship with Lexicon owner Steve Vander Ark, reiterated on her website that she plans to write a "Harry Potter" encyclopedia, and that the publication of a similar book before her own would hurt the proceeds of the official encyclopedia, which she plans to give to charity. A judge later barred publication of the book in any form until the case was
Author J.K. Rowling promoted a website selling transphobic merchandise. [SEP] Albus Dumbledore // behaviour of his character and his relationship with Grindelwald. Thomas notes the skill Rowling displays in writing a gay character without having to put a gay label on him. Gay rights campaigner Peter Tatchell stated that "It's good that children's literature includes the reality of gay people, since we exist in every society. But I am disappointed that she did not make Dumbledore's sexuality explicit in the Harry Potter book. Making it obvious would have sent a much more powerful message of understanding and acceptance." A spokesperson for Stonewall praised Rowling, saying "It's great that JK has said this. It
Author J.K. Rowling promoted a website selling transphobic merchandise. [SEP] Legal disputes over the Harry Potter series // The case was settled out of court. Also in 2003, courts in the Netherlands prevented the distribution of a Dutch translation of "Tanya Grotter and the Magical Double Bass", the first of Dmitri Yemets' popular Russian series about a female apprentice wizard. Rowling and her publishers sued, arguing that the Grotter books violate copyright law. Yemets and his original Moscow-based publishers, Eksmo, argued that the books constitute a parody, permitted under copyright. The Dutch courts ruled that the books did not constitute parody and thus were not allowed to be sold in the Netherlands. Later that year, as the Dutch
Author J.K. Rowling promoted a website selling transphobic merchandise. [SEP] Warner Bros. Entertainment Inc. v. RDR Books // the media, Rowling responded favorably to the verdict: I took no pleasure at all in bringing legal action and am delighted that this issue has been resolved favorably. I went to court to uphold the right of authors everywhere to protect their own original work. The court has upheld that right. The proposed book took an enormous amount of my work and added virtually no original commentary of its own. Many books have been published which offer original insights into the world of Harry Potter. The Lexicon just is not one of them. The Stanford Law School fair use project,
Facebook post Says news stories referencing 322 and COVID-19 are proof cases are being “synchronized” [SEP] Nvidia PureVideo // All third generation PureVideo hardware (G98, MCP77, MCP78, MCP79MX, MCP7A) cannot decode H.264 for the following horizontal resolutions: 769–784, 849–864, 929–944, 1009–1024, 1793–1808, 1873–1888, 1953–1968 and 2033–2048 pixels. The third generation PureVideo HD is sometimes called "PureVideo HD 3" or VP3, although this is not an official Nvidia designation. It corresponds to Nvidia Feature Set B (or "VDPAU Feature Set B"). This implementation of PureVideo HD, VP4 added hardware to offload MPEG-4 Advanced Simple Profile (the compression format implemented by original DivX and Xvid) bitstream decoding with the GT215, GT216 and GT218 GPUs (sold as GeForce GT 240, GeForce GT
Facebook post Says news stories referencing 322 and COVID-19 are proof cases are being “synchronized” [SEP] Nvidia G-Sync // proprietary G-Sync module sold by Nvidia. AMD (Advanced Micro Devices) has released a similar technology for displays, called FreeSync, which has the same function as G-Sync yet is royalty-free. NVIDIA built a special collision avoidance feature to avoid the eventuality of a new frame being ready while a duplicate is being drawn on screen (something that could generate lag and/or stutter) in which case the module anticipates the refresh and waits for the next frame to be completed. Overdriving pixels also becomes tricky in a non-fixed refresh scenario and solutions predicting when the next refresh is going to happen and
Facebook post Says news stories referencing 322 and COVID-19 are proof cases are being “synchronized” [SEP] Nvidia PureVideo // 220 and GeForce 210/G210, respectively). The H.264-decoder no longer suffers the framesize restrictions of VP3, and adds hardware-acceleration for MVC, a H.264 extension used on 3D Blu-ray discs. MVC acceleration is OS dependent: it is fully supported in Microsoft Windows through the Microsoft DXVA and Nvidia CUDA APIs, but is not supported through Nvidia's VDPAU API. The fourth generation PureVideo HD is sometimes called "PureVideo HD 4" or VP4, although this is not an official Nvidia designation. It corresponds to Nvidia Feature Set C (or "VDPAU Feature Set C"). The fifth generation of PureVideo HD, introduced with the GeForce GT
Facebook post Says news stories referencing 322 and COVID-19 are proof cases are being “synchronized” [SEP] Hybrid Log-Gamma // added support for HLG. On March 29, 2016, Harmonic Inc. released an update for the ViBE 4K UHD encoder that added support for HLG. On April 13, 2016, Canon Inc. announced that they will release firmware updates for the DP-V2410 and DP-V3010 reference displays to add support for HLG. On April 15, 2016, Dome Productions announced that they will begin trials of HLG to deliver HDR content. On April 18, 2016, Sony announced the PVM-X550 OLED monitor with support for HLG. Sony also announced a firmware update for the BVM-X300 OLED monitor to add support for HLG. On April 18,
Facebook post Says news stories referencing 322 and COVID-19 are proof cases are being “synchronized” [SEP] Unified Video Decoder // adds support for additional hardware MPEG2 decoding (entropy decode), DivX and Xvid via MPEG-4 Part 2 decoding (entropy decode, inverse transform, motion compensation) and Blu-ray 3D via MVC (entropy decode, inverse transform, motion compensation, in-loop deblocking). along with 120 Hz stereo 3D support, and is optimized to utilize less CPU processing power. UVD 3 also adds support for Blu-ray 3D stereoscopic displays. UVD 4 includes improved frame interpolation with H.264 decoder. UVD 4.2 was introduced with the AMD Radeon Rx 200 series and Kaveri APU. UVD 5 was introduced with the AMD Radeon R9 285. New to UVD is full
Facebook post Says news stories referencing 322 and COVID-19 are proof cases are being “synchronized” [SEP] AMD Radeon 400 series // supported with actual drivers in 2018. This series is based on the fourth generation GCN architecture. It includes new hardware schedulers, a new primitive discard accelerator, a new display controller, and an updated UVD that can decode HEVC at 4K resolutions at 60 frames per second with 10 bits per color channel. On December 8, 2016, AMD released Crimson ReLive drivers (Version 16.12.1), which make GCN-GPUs support VP9 decode acceleration up to 4K@60 Hz and twinned with support for Dolby Vision and HDR10. Polaris 10 features 2304 stream processors across 36 Compute Units (CUs), and supports up to 8GB of
Facebook post Says news stories referencing 322 and COVID-19 are proof cases are being “synchronized” [SEP] Jack Calmes // - I was gone all the time. I started Syncrolite and built a better light than they had. They sued me and I sued them back [and it] went on for five years." The case was resolved in favor of Vari*Lite. Syncrolite has provided systems for an array of high-profile events, including events such as the 2012 Olympics in London; the 75th anniversary of the Golden Gate Bridge; Super Bowl XLV and the 2014 NCAA Final Four at AT&T Stadium in Arlington, Texas; the three-day March Madness Music Festival at Reunion Park in downtown Dallas; the Houston Rodeo; the 30th
Facebook post Says news stories referencing 322 and COVID-19 are proof cases are being “synchronized” [SEP] Yoshimi (synthesizer) // or ALSA is not available it will try to connect to the other source. If neither can be found it will still run, giving one the chance to investigate the problem. There are three classes of multipatch configurations available, 16, 32, and 64 patches. When the 32-patch configuration is enabled one can choose pairs (between the two sets of 16) for realtime control changes (called vector control), and when 64-patch configuration is enabled one can do this in two dimensions, between four sets of patches. If starting from a terminal window, as of version 1.3.6 it has been possible to
Facebook post Says news stories referencing 322 and COVID-19 are proof cases are being “synchronized” [SEP] Nvidia NVENC // card, depending on card model and compression quality. It is accompanied by NVDEC for video "decoding" in Nvidia's Video Codec SDK. NVENC has undergone several hardware revisions since its introduction with the first Kepler GPU (GK104). The first generation of NVENC, which is shared by all Kepler-based GPUs, supports H.264 high-profile (YUV420, I/P/B frames, CAVLC/CABAC), H.264 SVC Temporal Encode VCE, and Display Encode Mode (DEM). NVidia's documentation states a peak encoder throughput of 8× realtime at a resolution of 1920×1080 (where the baseline "1×" equals 30Hz). Actual throughput varies on the selected preset, user-controlled parameters and settings, and the GPU/memory
Facebook post Says news stories referencing 322 and COVID-19 are proof cases are being “synchronized” [SEP] Nvidia PureVideo // 520 (Fermi (microarchitecture)) and also included in the Nvidia GeForce 600/700 (Kepler (microarchitecture)) series GPUs has significantly improved performance when decoding H.264. It is also capable of decoding 2160p 4K Ultra-High Definition (UHD) resolution videos at 3840 × 2160 pixels (doubling the 1080p Full High Definition standard in both the vertical and horizontal dimensions) and, depending on the driver and the used codec, higher resolutions of up to 4032 × 4080 pixels. The fifth generation PureVideo HD is sometimes called "PureVideo HD 5" or "VP5", although this is not an official Nvidia designation. This generation of PureVideo HD corresponds to
3 Nebraska Medicaid providers honored for serving patients. [SEP] Nebraska Medical Center // and the District of Columbia and 43 foreign countries. Nebraska Medicine's stroke program, heart failure program and acute myocardial infarction (heart attack) program have all received the "Gold Seal of Approval" certification from The Joint Commission, making these services the first nationally certified programs of their kind in the state of Nebraska. Nebraska Medicine is also the only hospital in the state that qualifies for the Level 4 (highest) designation per the standards of the National Association of Epilepsy Centers. Nebraska Medicine's main campus, located in midtown Omaha, is anchored by Clarkson Tower, University Tower, Lied Transplant Center and the
3 Nebraska Medicaid providers honored for serving patients. [SEP] Nebraska Orthopaedic Hospital // individuals who participate in those government sponsored programs. The hospital has twice been recognized as a top orthopaedic provider by U.S. News & World Report. In 2011, Nebraska Orthopaedic Hospital was recognized as the 38th best hospital in the nation for orthopaedic care, and #1 in the Omaha/Council Bluffs metro region. Nebraska Orthopaedic Hospital was named one of America's 100 Best for Joint Replacement, as well as the recipient of the Patient Safety Excellence Award and Outstanding Patient Experience Award by Healthgrades in 2015. In addition, the hospital ranked 61st out of 3,575 hospitals in Medicare's Value-Based Purchasing Program. Nebraska
3 Nebraska Medicaid providers honored for serving patients. [SEP] Ella Ochoa // the Minority Health Advisory Committee for the Nebraska Department of Health and Human Services. The NAF was an organization headquartered in Nebraska with locations in Scottsbluff, North Platte, Grand Island, Lincoln, and Omaha. While operating from 1979-2011, it offered many benefits to immigrant workers and helped to meet educational, developmental, and social needs. Ella Ochoa received The Ohtli Award in 1997, which is one of the highest awards given by the Mexican government to the Mexican community abroad. She also received the Nebraska commission of the status of women “Women of the Year”. In 2012, she received the MAFO Lifetime
3 Nebraska Medicaid providers honored for serving patients. [SEP] Matt Hansen // of Medicaid in Nebraska under the terms of the 2010 Affordable Care Act, declaring, "Ensuring that all Nebraskans have access to quality health care should remain a top priority of the Legislature"; Smoyer opposed it, expressing concern lest the federal government renege on its promise to reimburse states for the costs of the Medicaid expansion. Hansen favored the abolition of capital punishment in Nebraska; Smoyer favored keeping the death penalty, though using it rarely. Hansen was described as supporting a woman's right to an abortion; Smoyer, as "anti-abortion". Hansen wanted to repeal Nebraska's policy of denying driver's licenses to persons
3 Nebraska Medicaid providers honored for serving patients. [SEP] Roy Baker (politician) // learned to manage on a limited budget as a school superintendent, and that he would be one of the few legislators who understood Nebraska's state-aid-to-schools formula. On specific issues, Baker supported the proposed expansion of Medicaid in Nebraska under the provisions of the 2010 Affordable Care Act; Tiemann was inclined to oppose the expansion, lest the federal government renege on its pledge to reimburse states for the increased costs. Baker supported retaining a state law offering in-state tuition rates to persons who were residing illegally in the United States after being brought into the country as children, and who were
3 Nebraska Medicaid providers honored for serving patients. [SEP] Nebraska Medical Center // care facility in Nebraska, with more than 4,700 employees and more than 1,000 physicians on staff. Physicians at the center practice in all major specialties and sub-specialties attracting patients from across the region and from around the world. It is a 624-acute-care-bed facility with more than 350 medical and surgical residents and assists in the training and education of more than 1,000 students. In fiscal year 2009, Nebraska Medicine treated more than 24,000 inpatients and had more than 480,000 encounters in outpatient settings including diagnostic testing, radiology and specialty clinics. The medical center has treated patients from all 50 states
3 Nebraska Medicaid providers honored for serving patients. [SEP] Nebraska Department of Health & Human Services // Nebraska Department of Health & Human Services The Nebraska Department of Health & Human Services (DHHS) is a state agency of Nebraska, headquartered in Lincoln. The agency provides health and human services for both families and regular patients. Youth Rehabilitation & Treatment Center - Kearney (YRTC-K) in Kearney is the juvenile correctional facility for boys. Youth Rehabilitation & Treatment Center - Geneva (YRTC-G) in unincorporated Fillmore County, near Geneva, is the juvenile correctional facility for girls. The Nebraska Department of Correctional Services managed those facilities for 23 years; on January 1, 1997, the youth correctional facilities were transferred out of
3 Nebraska Medicaid providers honored for serving patients. [SEP] Nebraska Medical Center // Nebraska Medical Center Nebraska Medicine (formerly the Nebraska Medical Center, the Nebraska Health System) is a complex of hospitals, medical clinics, and health care colleges located in Omaha, Nebraska. It was formed by the merger of Bishop Clarkson Memorial Hospital and the adjacent University of Nebraska Medical Center in 1997. The facility has an international reputation for providing solid organ and bone marrow transplantation services and is well known nationally and regionally for its oncology, neurology and cardiology programs. Nebraska Medicine was named one of America’s best hospitals in U.S. News & World Report’s 2008 publication for Cancer and Neurology
3 Nebraska Medicaid providers honored for serving patients. [SEP] Ben Nelson // reimbursement scheme was derided by the measure's opponents as the "Cornhusker Kickback". Among those denouncing the provision was Dave Heineman, Nebraska's Republican governor. To these criticisms, Nelson responded that he had been attempting to eliminate an unfunded federal mandate upon the states, and that the Nebraska item was a "placeholder", intended from the start to be replaced by a revision that would provide reimbursement for the increased Medicaid costs of all states. Pro-life organizations also responded negatively to Nelson's vote. Nebraska Right to Life decried the anti-abortion language in the health-care bill as "bogus", and in April 2010 declared that
3 Nebraska Medicaid providers honored for serving patients. [SEP] Nebraska Medical Center // facility covers over four floors. The building houses emergency, radiology, cardiology, surgery and the newborn intensive care unit. Also in 2005, CDC Director Julie Gerberding, M.D. joined physicians at The Nebraska Medical Center for the opening of the Nebraska Biocontainment Unit. In 2008, The Nebraska Medical Center opened a new Diabetes Center, the only one of its kind in the state and in the region dedicated to offering comprehensive care for patients with diabetes. In 2010, Nebraska Medicine partnered with UNMC Physicians and a group of physicians from Bellevue, Nebraska to open that city's first civilian hospital, Nebraska Medicine- Bellevue.
The reaction between metallic mercury and aluminum, which produces a dramatic chain reaction popular on YouTube science channels, is evidence that vaccines are not safe. [SEP] H. Vasken Aposhian // how MMR and thimerosal-containing vaccines might have worked together to cause autism. The proposed mechanism involved something known as "mercury efflux disorder", and Aposhian testified that "The hypothesis was made less than three or four weeks ago." He also stated that efflux disorders have been documented before, and described them as "problems with getting a metal, in this case mercury, out of a cell," citing Wilson's disease as an example thereof. Aposhian also testified, with regard to the concept of a dose-response relationship, that "This is an ancient form of quotation that until recently we taught in medical schools, and
The reaction between metallic mercury and aluminum, which produces a dramatic chain reaction popular on YouTube science channels, is evidence that vaccines are not safe. [SEP] Vaccine controversies // with serious adverse events. In some cases, aluminium-containing vaccines are associated with macrophagic myofasciitis (MMF), localized microscopic lesions containing aluminium salts that persist for up to 8 years. However, recent case-controlled studies have found no specific clinical symptoms in individuals with biopsies showing MMF, and there is no evidence that aluminium-containing vaccines are a serious health risk or justify changes to immunization practice. When the U.S. military began requiring its troops to receive the anthrax vaccine, multiple US military troops refused to do so, which led to threats of military courts martial. During the 2009 flu pandemic, significant controversy broke
The reaction between metallic mercury and aluminum, which produces a dramatic chain reaction popular on YouTube science channels, is evidence that vaccines are not safe. [SEP] Cedillo v. Secretary of Health and Human Services // body burden of mercury." Another study which Aposhian used to back up this statement was one conducted by Jeff Bradstreet and Mark Geier, which gave dimercaptosuccinic acid, a chelating agent, to children and concluded that children with autism excreted much more mercury thereafter than children without autism. Aposhian also cited a number of in vitro studies as evidence that thimerosal could cause immune system dysregulation. The following day, the plaintiffs presented their second argument, namely that the measles vaccine had caused intestinal damage. Their witness that day was gastroenterologist Arthur Krigsman, who testified that his opinion in the case depended
The reaction between metallic mercury and aluminum, which produces a dramatic chain reaction popular on YouTube science channels, is evidence that vaccines are not safe. [SEP] Mercury poisoning // absorbed through direct skin contact. Mercury and its compounds are commonly used in chemical laboratories, hospitals, dental clinics, and facilities involved in the production of items such as fluorescent light bulbs, batteries, and explosives. Many traditional medicines, including Ayurvedic medicine and Traditional Chinese medicine contain mercury and other heavy metals. No scientific data support the claim that mercury compounds in vaccine preservatives cause autism or its symptoms. Compounds of mercury tend to be much more toxic than either the elemental form or the salts. These compounds have been implicated in causing brain and liver damage. The most dangerous mercury compound,
The reaction between metallic mercury and aluminum, which produces a dramatic chain reaction popular on YouTube science channels, is evidence that vaccines are not safe. [SEP] Dan Burton // Last Week Tonight with John Oliver a C-SPAN 2 clip from 2002 of Dan Burton was used to highlight Burton's position on vaccines in relation to autism. In the clip Burton says, "I have yet to find any scientist who will say that there is no doubt, no doubt, that the mercury in vaccines does not contribute to autism. Now they'll say there's no scientific evidence, there's no studies or anything that proves that yet. But turn that around. There are no studies that disprove it either." John Oliver correctly highlights this as Burton's demand for "proving a negative" which
The reaction between metallic mercury and aluminum, which produces a dramatic chain reaction popular on YouTube science channels, is evidence that vaccines are not safe. [SEP] Mercury poisoning // a purgative. Many mercury-containing compounds were once used in medicines. These include calomel (mercurous chloride), and mercuric chloride. In 1999, the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) and the American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) asked vaccine makers to remove the organomercury compound thiomersal (spelled "thimerosal" in the US) from vaccines as quickly as possible, and thiomersal has been phased out of US and European vaccines, except for some preparations of influenza vaccine. The CDC and the AAP followed the precautionary principle, which assumes that there is no harm in exercising caution even if it later turns out to be unwarranted, but
The reaction between metallic mercury and aluminum, which produces a dramatic chain reaction popular on YouTube science channels, is evidence that vaccines are not safe. [SEP] Cedillo v. Secretary of Health and Human Services // Michelle's autism. He stated that "there was not a single study indicating that any form of mercury could cause serious neurological symptoms in the dosages that were used in vaccines" and criticized Aposhian's use of in vitro studies and his equating them to what happens in the actual animal, arguing that "the exposure to a cell in a petri dish was far more likely to cause damage than an equivalent dosage in a living system." With regard to specific in vitro studies, Brent argued that the Goth study was flawed because it tested thimerosal on mouse cells, not human cells;
The reaction between metallic mercury and aluminum, which produces a dramatic chain reaction popular on YouTube science channels, is evidence that vaccines are not safe. [SEP] Dan Burton // Burton wrote, adding "Every day that mercury-containing vaccines remain on the market is another day HHS is putting 8,000 children at risk." The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention did not agree that vaccines containing mercury caused autism, and the US FDA refused to ban the vaccines. Most manufacturers removed the preservatives from their vaccines anyway, with no resulting decrease in autism rates. Burton continues to maintain a page on his Congressional website called House.gov "Autism" which includes his speeches, transcripts from hearings, and newspaper articles on the relationship of autism and vaccines. In a June 2017 episode of
The reaction between metallic mercury and aluminum, which produces a dramatic chain reaction popular on YouTube science channels, is evidence that vaccines are not safe. [SEP] Neurotoxin // with age, and have been shown to correlate with Alzheimer’s Disease, implicating it as a neurotoxic causative compound of the disease. Despite its known toxicity, aluminum is still extensively utilized in the packaging and preparing of food, while other toxic metals such as lead have been almost entirely phased-out of use in these industries. Mercury is capable of inducing CNS damage by migrating into the brain by crossing the BBB. Mercury exists in a number of different compounds, though methylmercury (MeHg), dimethylmercury and diethylmercury are the only significantly neurotoxic forms. Diethylmercury and dimethylmercury are considered some of the most potent
The reaction between metallic mercury and aluminum, which produces a dramatic chain reaction popular on YouTube science channels, is evidence that vaccines are not safe. [SEP] Mercury (element) // to trace amounts in all U.S. vaccines recommended for children 6 years of age and under, with the exception of inactivated influenza vaccine. Another mercury compound, merbromin (Mercurochrome), is a topical antiseptic used for minor cuts and scrapes that is still in use in some countries. Mercury in the form of one of its common ores, cinnabar, is used in various traditional medicines, especially in traditional Chinese medicine. Review of its safety has found that cinnabar can lead to significant mercury intoxication when heated, consumed in overdose, or taken long term, and can have adverse effects at therapeutic doses, though
In 1981, Matagorda, Brazoria, and Galveston Counties all opted out of the Social Security program for their employees. Today, their program is very, very well-funded and there is no question about whether it’s going to be funded in" years to come. [SEP] Social Security (United States) // the Social Security laws as they existed at that time, several thousand employees of Galveston County, Texas were allowed to opt out of the Social Security program in the early 1980s, and have their money placed in a private retirement plan instead. While employees who earned $50,000 per year would have collected $1,302 per month in Social Security benefits, the private plan paid them $6,843 per month. While employees who earned $20,000 per year would have collected $775 per month in Social Security benefits, the private plan paid them $2,740 per month, at interest rates prevailing in 1996. While some
In 1981, Matagorda, Brazoria, and Galveston Counties all opted out of the Social Security program for their employees. Today, their program is very, very well-funded and there is no question about whether it’s going to be funded in" years to come. [SEP] Texas County & District Retirement System // Texas County & District Retirement System Created in 1967 by the Texas Legislature, the Texas County & District Retirement System (TCDRS) works with 760 county and district employers to provide retirement, disability and survivor benefits to more than 294,000 Texas public employees and retirees. The system receives no funding from the State of Texas. Each plan is funded independently by the county or district and its employees. TCDRS net assets are $30 billion as of Dec. 31, 2017, and paid out $1.4 billion in benefits in 2017. Each county and district that participates in TCDRS maintains its own customized plan
In 1981, Matagorda, Brazoria, and Galveston Counties all opted out of the Social Security program for their employees. Today, their program is very, very well-funded and there is no question about whether it’s going to be funded in" years to come. [SEP] Texas RioGrande Legal Aid // West Texas. Austin's legal aid program, founded in 1966, was expanded to include the counties surrounding Travis and the Belton-Ford Hood area and became Legal Aid of Central Texas. Corpus Christi's program in Nueces County was expanded to take on ten more counties in the Coastal Bend region and renamed as the Coastal Bend Legal Services program. During the years of transition that began with President Reagan's initial attempt to dismantle LSC, LSC programs intensified their efforts to identify funding that could replace, if necessary, the federal money that enabled the provision of legal services to poor people. The 1980s
In 1981, Matagorda, Brazoria, and Galveston Counties all opted out of the Social Security program for their employees. Today, their program is very, very well-funded and there is no question about whether it’s going to be funded in" years to come. [SEP] Bailey Hardeman // Matagorda County. It was almost natural for him to fall into a leadership roll in the local politics given his experience in Tennessee. On 28 Nov 1835 General Council of the Provisional Government of Texas elected him one of the commissioners to organize the militia for Matagorda Municipality. Upon his arrival at Washington-on-the-Brazos on March 1, 1836, he was appointed to a twenty-one-member committee to draw up a constitution for the Republic of Texas. The resulting Constitution was approved in mid-March. The delegates elected him Secretary of the Treasury. On 27 Mar 1836 he and Lorenzo de Zavala were appointed
In 1981, Matagorda, Brazoria, and Galveston Counties all opted out of the Social Security program for their employees. Today, their program is very, very well-funded and there is no question about whether it’s going to be funded in" years to come. [SEP] Presidency of George W. Bush // the payroll taxes funding the program. The President argued that Social Security faced an imminent funding crisis and that reform was necessary to ensure its continuing solvency. However, Bush's plan earned unified opposition from congressional Democrats and failed to attract the necessary support from Republicans, and legislation on Social Security reform was never brought to a vote. Hurricane Katrina, one of the largest and most powerful hurricanes ever to strike the United States, ravaged several states along the Gulf of Mexico in August 2005. On a working vacation at his ranch in Texas, Bush initially allowed state and local authorities
In 1981, Matagorda, Brazoria, and Galveston Counties all opted out of the Social Security program for their employees. Today, their program is very, very well-funded and there is no question about whether it’s going to be funded in" years to come. [SEP] Ike Dike // storm surge suppression. That corporation, the Gulf Coast Community Protection and Recovery District, Inc., was established on April 20, 2010. Galveston County Judge Jim Yarborough was elected chair of the board of directors and Robert Eckels, former county judge of Harris County, was elected President. Dannenbaum Engineering was appointed as the engineering consultant. Despite this, though, the declining economy in 2010 stifled efforts to secure funding and the project remains stalled. By the end of 2012 momentum toward building the structure had waned significantly, in large part due to Hurricane Sandy, which seriously damaged the U.S. Northeast and attracted attention
In 1981, Matagorda, Brazoria, and Galveston Counties all opted out of the Social Security program for their employees. Today, their program is very, very well-funded and there is no question about whether it’s going to be funded in" years to come. [SEP] Effects of Hurricane Ike in Texas // Forces troops on standby. The Texas County of Brazoria called for voluntary evacuation and Matagorda County called for mandatory evacuation as did the County of Brazoria for zip code 77541 and the city of Lake Jackson. Galveston, parts of southern Houston and areas south of the city and near the Texas coast were under a mandatory evacuation order starting at noon September 11. On September 10, U.S. President George W. Bush made an emergency declaration for Texas in advance of Hurricane Ike, making more federal help available for preparations and evacuations. State rural water associations activated mutual aid networks to
In 1981, Matagorda, Brazoria, and Galveston Counties all opted out of the Social Security program for their employees. Today, their program is very, very well-funded and there is no question about whether it’s going to be funded in" years to come. [SEP] Brazoria County, Texas // brought to be reinterred at the state capital in Austin. The town of West Columbia served as the first capital of Texas, dating back to pre-revolutionary days. Temple Lea Houston, youngest son of Sam Houston, was c. 1880 the county attorney of Brazoria County. His life story is reflected in the 1963 film "The Man from Galveston" and the 26-episode 1963-1964 NBC western television series, "Temple Houston". Lake Jackson is a community developed beginning in the early 1940s to provide housing to workers at a new Dow Chemical Company plant in nearby Freeport. The county has elements of both rural
In 1981, Matagorda, Brazoria, and Galveston Counties all opted out of the Social Security program for their employees. Today, their program is very, very well-funded and there is no question about whether it’s going to be funded in" years to come. [SEP] Texas Municipal Retirement System // not cover city employees in Houston, Dallas, Austin, and Fort Worth, Galveston, and El Paso, which have their own retirement systems. Within a menu of options, each participating city determines and controls benefit levels for its employees. Retirement benefits for employees of participating cities are paid from the employees’ contributions, city contributions, and the System’s investment income. TMRS is headquartered at 1200 North Interstate 35 in Austin, Texas. It is governed by a six-member, unpaid Board of Trustees that is appointed by the Governor of Texas, with the advice and consent of the Texas Senate. Board members serve staggered, six-year
In 1981, Matagorda, Brazoria, and Galveston Counties all opted out of the Social Security program for their employees. Today, their program is very, very well-funded and there is no question about whether it’s going to be funded in" years to come. [SEP] Texas County & District Retirement System // of benefits. This gives employers the flexibility and local control to select and pay for benefits based on their needs and budget. Employers review their plans annually and have the option to raise or lower benefits to control costs. Employees save for their own retirement over the length of their careers. TCDRS benefits are based on an employee’s total savings balance, which includes interest and employer matching contributions. This structure prevents benefit manipulation—or “benefit spiking”—sometimes found in plans using final average salary benefit formulas. Benefits are funded by each county or district and its employees. Each employer must pay 100%
10 people treated after chemical spill in science building. [SEP] Emergency management in American universities // after the spill of chemicals, resulted in the safe, effective evacuation of the building. Even in this scenario, however, when a minor spill was successfully contained with minimal injuries, communication lapses prevented potentially at-risk individuals from understanding the actual situation. Other universities who are implementing chemical accident policies may use the experience of the Central Michigan lab accident to create more comprehensive plans that successfully communicate the potential situation to relevant individuals. Communicable disease outbreaks are no stranger to college campuses, due to the highly concentrated population of individuals present in a comparatively small environment. Incidents such as the H1N1
10 people treated after chemical spill in science building. [SEP] 2014 Elk River chemical spill // in Saint Albans in Kanawha County, Lincoln County and Hurricane in Putnam county were not affected by the water ban as they were served by local public water systems. The West Virginia Department of Health and Human Resources stated that 122 people had sought treatment by January 11 for symptoms including nausea and vomiting. Of those 122 people, four people had been admitted to the Charleston Area Medical Center and one at another area hospital for observation with symptoms of nausea. On January 12, the number of patients treated at hospitals for their symptoms from chemical exposure grew to about
10 people treated after chemical spill in science building. [SEP] Emergency management in American universities // plan from the University of Arkansas emphasizes quick, effective strategy for containing chemical spill situations in a campus setting. Some key strategies from the sample response plan include notifying first responder officials through 911 with a brief but detailed description of the emergency, which sets in motion the relevant chain of command for chemical-related emergency response, and setting off fire alarms to initiate an evacuation of the building in its entirety. A chemical spill in a lab at Central Michigan University serves as an example for the implementation of clear, comprehensive emergency protocols. The incident, which left one individual injured
10 people treated after chemical spill in science building. [SEP] Emergency management in American universities // event that this emergency occurs. Campus chemical hazards can occur as short-notice, varied instances that are difficult to prepare for. Chemical spills requiring organized response guidelines typically consist of either major or minor chemical spills. Major chemical spills involve either high quantities of a substance, or any spilled quantity of a harmful chemical substance. Minor spills consist of chemicals do not pose a significant risk to human health. In campus situations where research or academic uses of dangerous chemicals are often required, detailed response plans are a necessity for ensuring the safety of students in these situations. A sample response
10 people treated after chemical spill in science building. [SEP] 2014 Elk River chemical spill // 169. By that evening of January 10, nearly 700 residents had contacted West Virginia's poison control center, reporting a range of symptoms including nausea and rashes. On January 13, the total number of residents who had been hospitalized had risen to 10, and by January 14, the total reached 14, although none were in were in serious condition. By 1 p.m. on January 10, the sweet-smelling odor was no longer detectable, according to West Virginia National Guard Adjutant, Major General James Hoyer. On January 11, the chief of DEP's Homeland Security and Emergency Response division, Mike Dorsey, stated that of
10 people treated after chemical spill in science building. [SEP] Morganton, North Carolina // reentered the building wearing a respirator and started emergency cooling water flow to the reactor. The building exploded less than 30 seconds after he exited the second time. The US Chemical Safety Board (CSB) stated that the solvent vapor leaked from the overheated and over-pressurised process reactor, forming a flammable vapour cloud inside the building that ignited. A total of 14 people were injured in the blast, of whom one man later died. In addition, at least 300 fish died due to chemicals leaking into a creek behind the Synthron plant which leads into the Catawba River. Properties recognized for
10 people treated after chemical spill in science building. [SEP] West Jefferson Medical Center // workers who were complaining of illnesses they attributed to cleaning up oil from the Deepwater Horizon disaster. Seven workers were hospitalized on May 26 after complaining of dizziness, severe headaches, shortness of breath, nausea and skin irritations while working on boats off the Louisiana coast. Two days later, 2 more workers were brought to the ER by helicopter, and the following day 2 oil spill workers walked into the ER complaining of similar symptoms. Nine of the 11 workers were admitted to the hospital overnight and, on average, stayed 2 to 3 days until their symptoms lessened. WJMC Doctors believe
10 people treated after chemical spill in science building. [SEP] 2014 Elk River chemical spill // Virginia. On February 10, the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, U.S. House of Representatives, held a field hearing in Charleston to investigate the circumstances behind, and the response to, the chemical spill. On January 16, an independent unfunded engineering and science research team from the University of South Alabama drove more than 800 miles from Mobile, Alabama to help residents affected by the incident. The team was headed by Environmental Engineering Professors Dr. Andrew Whelton and Kevin White, and also included graduate students Keven Kelley, Matt Connell, Jeff Gill, and Lakia McMillan. The initial focus of their effort was to
10 people treated after chemical spill in science building. [SEP] Health consequences of the Deepwater Horizon oil spill // metals. The spill was also notable for the volume of Corexit oil dispersant used to help disperse the oil. Although EPA-approved, at the time of its use no toxicology studies had been done. In 2011, a toxicology study was done and it reported 57 chemicals in the ingredients including chemicals associated with cancer, skin irritation from rashes to burns, eye irritation, potential respiratory toxins or irritants; and kidney toxins. At the height of operations (summer of 2010), response vessels numbered about 7,000 and personnel numbered over 47,000; as of January 2013, that figure has dropped to about 935. The maximum
10 people treated after chemical spill in science building. [SEP] Building 470 // of a massive accident involving deadly biological agents, the government could never be entirely sure that the building was safe to occupy and therefore it was closed and sealed up. It had to be left standing because officials couldn't be sure the bacteria were truly gone. In fact, a large spill did occur in Building 470 in 1958. A technician, trying to pry open a stuck valve at the bottom of a fermentor, unintentionally released approximately 2,000 gallons of liquid "B. anthracis" culture. Because of the design of the building and the safety measures in place, it was possible to
Experimental treatment helps 2 out of 3 peanut allergy sufferers, study finds [SEP] Talizumab // the safety and efficacy data of these two trials, a “switch-over” study was performed on TNX-901 and subsequently a double-blinded, randomized, placebo-controlled, and multi-center trial of TNX-901 was designed and performed on patients with extreme sensitivity to peanuts. The clinical trial results indicate that with the administration of TNX-901, patients, who could tolerate an average of half a peanut before the treatment, were able to ingest up to 9 peanuts before they started to have allergic reactions. Therefore, TNX-901 cannot cure peanut allergy, but could protect patients from the often violent and life-threatening reactions upon the accidental exposure to peanut.
Experimental treatment helps 2 out of 3 peanut allergy sufferers, study finds [SEP] Peanut allergy // people outside of carefully conducted trials. In those with mild peanut allergies, gradually eating more and more peanuts resulted in at least some short-term benefits. As of 2012, the evidence did not show that this was safe or effective. Sublingual immunotherapy involves putting gradually increasing doses of an allergy extract under a person's tongue. The extract is then either spat or swallowed. As of 2014, the evidence did not show that this was safe or effective. Epicutaneous immunotherapy involves giving the allergen through a patch and has also been researched. Peanut allergy Peanut allergy is a type of food allergy
Experimental treatment helps 2 out of 3 peanut allergy sufferers, study finds [SEP] Peanut allergy // Practices and allergen control measures adopted are not sufficient to prevent the presence of accidental trace amounts. These allergens include wheat, rye, barley, oats and their hybrids, crustaceans, eggs, fish, peanuts, soybean, milk of all species of mammalians, almonds, hazelnuts, cashew nuts, Brazil nuts, macadamia nuts, walnuts, pecan nuts, pistaches, pine nuts, and chestnuts. Immunotherapy involves attempts to reduce or eliminate allergic sensitivity by repeated exposure. This active research concept involves swallowing small amounts of peanuts, holding a peanut product under the tongue - sublingual immunotherapy - skin patches or injections. None of these are considered ready for use in
Experimental treatment helps 2 out of 3 peanut allergy sufferers, study finds [SEP] Peanut allergy // less often than allergies to soy, milk, egg, and wheat. Accordingly, re-evaluation of peanut allergy is recommended on a yearly basis for young children with favorable previous test results, and every few years or longer for older children and adults. The percentage of people with peanut allergies is 0.6% in the United States. In a 2008 study, self-reported incidence of peanut allergy was estimated to affect 1.4% of the population of the United States, triple the 0.4-0.6% rate found in a 1997 study. In England, an estimated 4,000 people are newly diagnosed with peanut allergy every year; 25,700 having been
Experimental treatment helps 2 out of 3 peanut allergy sufferers, study finds [SEP] Peanut allergy // and laboratory testing such as the skin prick test. Peanut allergy may be preventable by feeding babies who are at high risk foods that contain peanuts when they are as young as four to six months of age. As of 2018, there is no cure for peanut allergy other than strict avoidance of peanuts and peanut-containing foods. Extra care is needed for food consumed at or purchased from restaurants. Total avoidance is complicated because the declaration of the presence of trace amounts of allergens in foods is not mandatory (see regulation of labelling). Peanut allergies tend to resolve in childhood
Experimental treatment helps 2 out of 3 peanut allergy sufferers, study finds [SEP] Allergen immunotherapy // not well studied. As of 2011 OIT was under investigation as a treatment for a variety of common food allergies including peanuts, milk, and eggs. Studies involving OIT have shown desensitization towards the allergen. However, there are still questions about longevity of tolerance after the study has ended. However, almost every study has excluded people with severe allergen-induced anaphylaxis. One approach being studied is in altering the protein structure of the allergen to decrease immune response but still induce tolerance. Extensive heating of some foods can change the conformation of epitopes recognized by IgE antibodies. In fact, studies show that
Experimental treatment helps 2 out of 3 peanut allergy sufferers, study finds [SEP] Peanut allergy // the suspected allergen is avoided. During the oral food challenge, they are administered a full age-appropriate serving of a suspected allergen in escalating size increments. They are continuously monitored for allergic reaction during the test, and the challenge is stopped and treatment administered at the first objective sign of allergic reaction. Oral food challenges pose risks. In a study of 584 oral food challenges administered to 382 patients, 48% (253) of challenges resulted in allergic reactions. 28% (72) of these challenges resulted in "severe" reactions, which were defined by the study as a patient having: lower respiratory symptoms; cardiovascular symptoms;
Experimental treatment helps 2 out of 3 peanut allergy sufferers, study finds [SEP] Allergen immunotherapy // trial, the monoclonal antibody omalizumab was combined with high-dose milk oral immunotherapy and saw positive results. Several other trials are also currently being done combining omalizumab with OIT for a variety of food allergens. FAHF-2, a Chinese herbal mixture, has shown positive effects on the immune system and has been shown to protect mice from peanut-induced anaphylaxis. FAHF-2 was also well tolerated in a phase I study. While it is possible that omalizumab, FAHF-2 or other immunomodulatory agents alone might be able to treat dangerous allergies, combining these with OIT may be more effective and synergistic, warranting further investigation. In
Experimental treatment helps 2 out of 3 peanut allergy sufferers, study finds [SEP] Talizumab // phase II studies of TNX-901 on peanut allergy. The media hailed the success of the trials, but expressed outcry over the fate of the TNX-901 program on peanut allergy. Ten years have passed, since Tanox was forced to put its TNX-901 program on the shelf. In the meantime, a phase II clinical trial of omalizumab on peanut allergy failed to finish, as a couple of patients suffered anaphylactic reactions during the testing for baseline sensitivity for peanut allergens and the trial had to be suspended. TNX-901 is a humanized anti-IgE antibody with a unique set of binding specificity to human
Experimental treatment helps 2 out of 3 peanut allergy sufferers, study finds [SEP] Peanut allergy // and babies. The principal treatment for anaphylaxis is epinephrine as an injection. In the United States, peanut allergy is present in 0.6% of the population. It is a common cause of food-related fatal and near-fatal allergic reactions. The declaration of the presence of trace amounts of allergens in foods is not mandatory in any country, with the exception of Brazil. Symptoms of peanut allergy are related to the action of Immunoglobulin E (IgE) and other anaphylatoxins which act to release histamine and other mediator substances from mast cells (degranulation). In addition to other effects, histamine induces vasodilation of arterioles and
Mending broken sleep: Sleep apnea, the dangerous cessation of breathing during sleep, is being diagnosed more and more. A simple machine can bring refreshing relief [SEP] Sleep surgery // have other features as well, such as heated humidifiers. CPAP is the most effective treatment for obstructive sleep apnea, in which the pressure from CPAP prevents the airway from collapsing or becoming blocked. A mandibular advancement device or mandibular advancement splint may be used in select patients as treatment for mild or moderate OSA. Where appropriate, they are considered a good therapy choice as they are non-invasive, easily reversible, quiet, and generally well accepted by the patient. The focus of improvement in appliance design is in reducing bulk, permitting free jaw movement (i.e., yawning, speaking, and drinking), and allowing the
Mending broken sleep: Sleep apnea, the dangerous cessation of breathing during sleep, is being diagnosed more and more. A simple machine can bring refreshing relief [SEP] Sleep apnea // people are told to avoid alcohol, sleeping pills, and other sedatives, which can relax throat muscles, contributing to the collapse of the airway at night. For moderate to severe sleep apnea, the most common treatment is the use of a continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) or automatic positive airway pressure (APAP) device. These splint the person's airway open during sleep by means of pressurized air. The person typically wears a plastic facial mask, which is connected by a flexible tube to a small bedside CPAP machine. With proper use, CPAP improves outcomes. Whether or not it decreases the risk of
Mending broken sleep: Sleep apnea, the dangerous cessation of breathing during sleep, is being diagnosed more and more. A simple machine can bring refreshing relief [SEP] Sleep apnea // the bloodstream. Chemoreceptors in the blood stream note the high carbon dioxide levels. The brain is signaled to awaken the person, which clears the airway and allows breathing to resume. Breathing normally will restore oxygen levels and the person will fall asleep again. Sleep apnea may be diagnosed by the evaluation of symptoms, risk factors and observation, (e.g., excessive daytime sleepiness and fatigue) but the gold standard for diagnosis is a formal sleep study (polysomnography, or sometimes a reduced-channels home-based test). A study can establish reliable indices of the disorder, derived from the number and type of event per hour
Mending broken sleep: Sleep apnea, the dangerous cessation of breathing during sleep, is being diagnosed more and more. A simple machine can bring refreshing relief [SEP] Mandibular advancement splint // apnea. They may bring the level of apnea a patient experiences down significantly but fail to completely eliminate it. A meta-analysis of 51 randomized controlled trials investigating the effects of CPAP and oral devices on blood pressure found that oral devices were equally effective as continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) devices in lowering the blood pressure of patients suffering from OSA. The medical dental sleep appliance, or MDSA, was clinically proven to conclusively show in a large and complex randomized controlled study that CPAP and MAS are effective in treating sleep-disordered breathing in subjects with AHI 5–30. CPAP was thought
Mending broken sleep: Sleep apnea, the dangerous cessation of breathing during sleep, is being diagnosed more and more. A simple machine can bring refreshing relief [SEP] Sleep medicine // an oral and maxillofacial surgeon, is indicated. The treatments prevent airway collapse, which interrupts breathing during sleep. A 2001 study published by Hans-Werner Gessmann in the Journal of Sleep Medicine and Sleep Psychology found that patients who practiced a series of electrical stimulations of suprahyoidal tongue muscles for 20 minutes a day showed a marked decline in sleep apnea symptoms after two months. Patients experienced an average of 36% fewer apnea episodes after successfully completing the treatments. Sleep medicine Sleep medicine is a medical specialty or subspecialty devoted to the diagnosis and therapy of sleep disturbances and disorders. From the
Mending broken sleep: Sleep apnea, the dangerous cessation of breathing during sleep, is being diagnosed more and more. A simple machine can bring refreshing relief [SEP] Mandibular advancement splint // According to the current American Academy of Sleep Medicine treatment guidelines, Oral appliances should be considered for patients with snoring or minor to moderate sleep apnea, or as an alternative to CPAP in non compliant patients with severe obstructive sleep apnea. Where appropriate, they are considered a good therapy choice as they are non-invasive, easily reversible, quiet, and generally well accepted by the patient. The focus of improvement in appliance design is in reducing bulk, permitting free jaw movement (permitting yawning, speaking, and drinking), and allowing the user to breathe through the mouth (early "welded gum shield"-type devices prevented oral
Mending broken sleep: Sleep apnea, the dangerous cessation of breathing during sleep, is being diagnosed more and more. A simple machine can bring refreshing relief [SEP] Sleep apnea // loss. Using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), the scientists discovered that people with sleep apnea have mammillary bodies that are about 20 percent smaller, particularly on the left side. One of the key investigators hypothesized that repeated drops in oxygen lead to the brain injury. In pure central sleep apnea or Cheyne–Stokes respiration, the brain's respiratory control centers are imbalanced during sleep. Blood levels of carbon dioxide, and the neurological feedback mechanism that monitors them, do not react quickly enough to maintain an even respiratory rate, with the entire system cycling between apnea and hyperpnea, even during wakefulness. The sleeper stops
Mending broken sleep: Sleep apnea, the dangerous cessation of breathing during sleep, is being diagnosed more and more. A simple machine can bring refreshing relief [SEP] Sleep apnea // per hour must occur. Treatment may include lifestyle changes, mouthpieces, breathing devices, and surgery. Lifestyle changes may include avoiding alcohol, losing weight, stopping smoking, and sleeping on one's side. Breathing devices include the use of a CPAP machine. Without treatment, sleep apnea may increase the risk of heart attack, stroke, diabetes, heart failure, irregular heartbeat, obesity, and motor vehicle collisions. OSA affects 1 to 6% of adults and 2% of children. It affects males about twice as often as females. While people at any age can be affected, it occurs most commonly among those 55 to 60 years old. Central
Mending broken sleep: Sleep apnea, the dangerous cessation of breathing during sleep, is being diagnosed more and more. A simple machine can bring refreshing relief [SEP] Positive airway pressure // Obstructive sleep apnea occurs when the upper airway becomes narrow as the muscles relax naturally during sleep. This reduces oxygen in the blood and causes arousal from sleep. The CPAP machine stops this phenomenon by delivering a stream of compressed air via a hose to a nasal pillow, nose mask, full-face mask, or hybrid, splinting the airway (keeping it open under air pressure) so that unobstructed breathing becomes possible, therefore reducing and/or preventing apneas and hypopneas. It is important to understand, however, that it is the air pressure, and not the movement of the air, that prevents the apneas. When
Mending broken sleep: Sleep apnea, the dangerous cessation of breathing during sleep, is being diagnosed more and more. A simple machine can bring refreshing relief [SEP] Sleep deprivation // use of stimulant drugs. Sleep deprivation is also self-imposed to achieve personal fame in the context of record-breaking stunts. Obstructive sleep apnea is often caused by collapse of the upper airway during sleep, which reduces airflow to the lungs. It has many serious health outcomes if untreated. Positive airway pressure therapy using a CPAP (Continuous positive airway pressure), APAP or BPAP devices is considered to be the first line treatment option for sleep apnea. Mandibular displacement devices in some cases can reposition the jaw and tongue to prevent the airway from collapsing. For some patients supplemental oxygen therapy may be
Study Finds More Isn't Better for Roche Breast Cancer Drug [SEP] Study of Tamoxifen and Raloxifene // cancer. Study of Tamoxifen and Raloxifene The Study of Tamoxifen and Raloxifene (STAR) is a clinical trial designed determine how the drug raloxifene compares with the drug tamoxifen in reducing the incidence of breast cancer in women who are at increased risk of the disease. One of the largest breast cancer prevention studies ever, it included 22,000 women in 400 medical centers in the United States and Canada. The study concluded that raloxifene caused fewer side-effects and less endometrial cancer than tamoxifen. Raloxifene was found to be more effective at preventing noninvasive breast cancer but less effective at preventing invasive
Study Finds More Isn't Better for Roche Breast Cancer Drug [SEP] Study of Tamoxifen and Raloxifene // Study of Tamoxifen and Raloxifene The Study of Tamoxifen and Raloxifene (STAR) is a clinical trial designed determine how the drug raloxifene compares with the drug tamoxifen in reducing the incidence of breast cancer in women who are at increased risk of the disease. One of the largest breast cancer prevention studies ever, it included 22,000 women in 400 medical centers in the United States and Canada. The study concluded that raloxifene caused fewer side-effects and less endometrial cancer than tamoxifen. Raloxifene was found to be more effective at preventing noninvasive breast cancer but less effective at preventing invasive breast
Study Finds More Isn't Better for Roche Breast Cancer Drug [SEP] Bevacizumab // patients. This only prevented Genentech from marketing bevacizumab for breast cancer. Doctors are free to prescribe bevacizumab off label, although insurance companies are less likely to approve off-label treatments. In June 2011, an FDA panel unanimously rejected an appeal by Roche. A panel of cancer experts ruled for a second time that Avastin, the best-selling cancer drug in the world, should no longer be used in breast cancer patients, clearing the way for the U.S. government to remove its endorsement from the drug. The June 2011 meeting of the FDA's oncologic drug advisory committee was the last step in an
Study Finds More Isn't Better for Roche Breast Cancer Drug [SEP] Risk factors for breast cancer // efficacy in preventing breast cancer compared with tamoxifen, but that there were fewer side effects with raloxifene. The RUTH Trial concluded that "benefits of raloxifene in reducing the risks of invasive breast cancer and vertebral fracture should be weighed against the increased risks of venous thromboembolism and fatal stroke". On September 14, 2007, the US Food and Drug Administration approved raloxifene (Evista) to prevent invasive breast cancer in postmenopausal women. Many xenoestrogens (industrially made estrogenic compounds) and other endocrine disruptors are potential risk factors of breast cancer. Diethylstilbestrol (DES) is a synthetic form of estrogen. It has been used between
Study Finds More Isn't Better for Roche Breast Cancer Drug [SEP] Selective estrogen receptor modulator // to three times higher relative risk of developing endometrial cancer compared to women of an age-matched population. Toremifene, a chlorinated tamoxifen derivative, causes fewer DNA adducts in liver than seen with tamoxifen in preclinical studies and was developed to avoid hepatic carcinomas. It is used as endocrine therapy in women with ER/PR-positive stage 4 or recurrent metastatic breast cancer and has demonstrated similar efficacy compared to tamoxifen as adjuvant treatment of breast cancer and in the treatment of metastatic breast cancer. Raloxifene is used for prevention and treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis and breast cancer prevention in high-risk postmenopausal women with
Study Finds More Isn't Better for Roche Breast Cancer Drug [SEP] Cobimetinib // alone. Adding cobimetinib also increased the median overall survival to 25.6 months, compared to the 18 months for vemurafenib alone. Another phase III trial is comparing cobimetinib with atezolizumab and regorafenib for treament of advanced colorectal cancer. Roche has announced a planned phase III trial of atezolizumab in combination with cobimetinib and vemurafenib for BRAF-mutated melanoma. A phase II trial of cobimetinib with vemurafenib for melanoma with brain metastases was terminated in 2016. Cobimetinib in combination with paclitaxel is in a phase II trial for the treatment of metastatic triple-negative breast cancer. Cobimetinib Cobimetinib (trade name Cotellic) is a MEK
Study Finds More Isn't Better for Roche Breast Cancer Drug [SEP] Women's Health Initiative // estrogen-plus-progestin trial, there was a sharp decrease in breast cancer risk in the early post-intervention period, though the hazard ratio remained greater than 1, followed by a sustained risk during the late post-intervention period that was significantly greater than 1. It is hypothesized that the initial decrease was due to the resulting change in the hormone environment, while the subsequent persistent increase in breast cancer incidence may be attributed to the persistence of oncogenic mutations and subsequent expansion of these mutation-harboring cell lineages. In contrast, breast cancer risk was significantly lower for the estrogen-alone group compared to placebo during the
Study Finds More Isn't Better for Roche Breast Cancer Drug [SEP] Estrogen (medication) // This was in accordance with a previous analysis of estrogen-only treatment with estradiol or conjugated estrogens which similarly found no increased risk ( = 0.99). Moreover, another study found that the risk of breast cancer with estradiol and conjugated estrogens was not significantly different ( = 1.15 for conjugated estrogens versus estradiol). These findings are paradoxical because oophorectomy in premenopausal women and antiestrogen therapy in postmenopausal women are well-established as considerably reducing the risk of breast cancer ( = 0.208 to 0.708 for chemoprevention with antiestrogens in postmenopausal women). However, there are indications that there may be a ceiling effect
Study Finds More Isn't Better for Roche Breast Cancer Drug [SEP] Risk factors for breast cancer // the relative risk reduction for raloxifene was 76%. The P-1 preventative study demonstrated that tamoxifen can prevent breast cancer in high-risk individuals. The relative risk reduction was up to 50% of new breast cancers, though the cancers prevented were more likely estrogen-receptor positive (this is analogous to the effect of finasteride on the prevention of prostate cancer, in which only low-grade prostate cancers were prevented). The Italian trial showed benefit from tamoxifen. Additional randomized controlled trials have been published since the guidelines. The IBIS trial found benefit from tamoxifen. In 2006, the NSABP STAR trial demonstrated that raloxifene had equal
Study Finds More Isn't Better for Roche Breast Cancer Drug [SEP] Veliparib // trials, for advanced ovarian cancer, triple-negative breast cancer and in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). In 2017, AbbVie reported that veliparib failed to improve outcomes in the triple-negative breast cancer and NSCLC trials. Veliparib Veliparib (ABT-888) is a potential anti-cancer drug acting as a PARP inhibitor. It kills cancer cells by blocking a protein called PARP, thereby preventing the repair of DNA or genetic damage in cancer cells and possibly making them more susceptible to anticancer treatments. Veliparib may make whole brain radiation treatment work more effectively against brain metastases from NSCLC. It has been shown to potentiate the effects
A tourist's unfortunate bout of stomach upset on a Spanish roller coaster splashed liquid fecal matter on other customers. [SEP] 2 Girls 1 Cup // were flooded with videos of the reactions of first-time viewers. Viewers often speculate that the apparent feces are actually food substances such as refried beans, ice cream, or peanut butter. Some speculate that the vomit is real, but was regurgitated before reaching the stomach and does not contain any gastric acids. In the video, the majority of the vomit does not enter the mouths. Fiorito unsuccessfully argued in court that the excrement was actually chocolate ice cream. It is, however, very likely that the video portrays authentic coprophagia. The video originated from a Brazilian distributor and pornographer Marco Antônio Fiorito
A tourist's unfortunate bout of stomach upset on a Spanish roller coaster splashed liquid fecal matter on other customers. [SEP] Enema // loosened by the instilled solution together with the solution itself. The procedure may cause uncomfortable bloating and cramping. Plain water can be used, simply functioning mechanically to expand the colon, thus prompting evacuation. Castile soap is commonly added because its irritation of the colon's lining increases the urgency to defecate. Likewise, mild hand soap can be dissolved in the water. However, liquid handsoaps and detergents should not be used. Glycerol is a specific bowel mucosa irritant serving to induce peristalsis via a hyperosmotic effect. It is used in a dilute solution, e.g., 5%. Buffered sodium phosphate solution draws additional water
A tourist's unfortunate bout of stomach upset on a Spanish roller coaster splashed liquid fecal matter on other customers. [SEP] Alcohol enema // the man consumed two large bottles of sherry, containing about three liters of the alcohol. He suffered from alcoholism and had difficulty ingesting alcohol orally because of a painful throat ailment. His wife was indicted on a charge of negligent homicide. In August 2007, prosecutors dropped the charges due to insufficient evidence. Alcohol enema An alcohol enema, also known colloquially as butt-chugging, is the act of introducing alcohol into the rectum and colon via the anus. This method of alcohol consumption can be dangerous and even deadly because it leads to faster intoxication since the alcohol is absorbed directly into
A tourist's unfortunate bout of stomach upset on a Spanish roller coaster splashed liquid fecal matter on other customers. [SEP] Cartman Joins NAMBLA // Denver Experience, a violent ride not recommended for pregnant women. However, Kenny's father gets a broken nose from the ride and ends up vomiting, defecating, and now, draining his bloody nose into a garbage can. Having stood enough of this, an enraged Kenny chases Mrs. McCormick through the town with a plunger, attempting to plunge the fetus out of her. Upon seeing this, Mr. McCormick angrily chases after Kenny to stop him from hurting his mother and their unborn child. Cartman goes to see Dr. Mephesto about where he might find mature friends. Dr. Mephesto advises Cartman to join an
A tourist's unfortunate bout of stomach upset on a Spanish roller coaster splashed liquid fecal matter on other customers. [SEP] Traveler's diarrhea // Traveler's diarrhea Traveler's diarrhea (TD) is a stomach and intestinal infection. TD is defined as the passage of unformed stool (one or more by some definitions, three or more by others) while traveling. It may be accompanied by abdominal cramps, nausea, fever, and bloating. Occasionally bloody diarrhea may occur. Most travelers recover within four days with little or no treatment. About 10% of people may have symptoms for a week. Bacteria are responsible for more than half of cases. The bacteria enterotoxigenic "Escherichia coli" (ETEC) are typically the most common except in Southeast Asia, where "Campylobacter" is more prominent. About
A tourist's unfortunate bout of stomach upset on a Spanish roller coaster splashed liquid fecal matter on other customers. [SEP] Traveler's diarrhea // Traveler's diarrhea Traveler's diarrhea (TD) is a stomach and intestinal infection. TD is defined as the passage of unformed stool (one or more by some definitions, three or more by others) while traveling. It may be accompanied by abdominal cramps, nausea, fever, and bloating. Occasionally bloody diarrhea may occur. Most travelers recover within four days with little or no treatment. About 10% of people may have symptoms for a week. Bacteria are responsible for more than half of cases. The bacteria enterotoxigenic "Escherichia coli" (ETEC) are typically the most common except in Southeast Asia, where "Campylobacter" is more prominent. About
A tourist's unfortunate bout of stomach upset on a Spanish roller coaster splashed liquid fecal matter on other customers. [SEP] Crème Fraîche (South Park) // jokes, as it opens with a dig at Carnival Cruise Lines and how smelling like poop would actually be an improvement for their ship. That joke is quickly followed by Randy Marsh ignoring his wife's requests to avoid the 'no-no' channel, and we soon find that Randy has a case of Sitophilia (a food fetish) that is only satisfied by the sweet, sweet food love on Food Network." "Crème Fraîche", along with the 13 other episodes from "South Park" 14th season, was released on a three-disc DVD set and two-disc Blu-ray set in the United States on April 26, 2011.
A tourist's unfortunate bout of stomach upset on a Spanish roller coaster splashed liquid fecal matter on other customers. [SEP] Mr. Hankey, the Christmas Poo // the "South Park" series. Halsall said the use of fecal matter as a character, and especially its tendency to smear parts of itself around as it moved, directly confronts the viewer with "the inherent dirtiness of the human body, no matter how much we try to aestheticize it, Mr. Hankey's stains systematically mess up the cleanliness of the social order. [...] "South Park" refuses sanitization through the gross-out factor." Some writers consider Mr. Hankey one of the most easily recognizable and popular of the non-regular "South Park" characters. His high-pitched greeting, "Howdy-ho", was equally recognizable and became one of the
A tourist's unfortunate bout of stomach upset on a Spanish roller coaster splashed liquid fecal matter on other customers. [SEP] Griffon (roller coaster) // Paitsel, Lisa Deaderick, and Joe Atkinson from "Daily Press" each rated the roller coaster for its vomiting and scream factors. Nicole and Lisa rated the vomiting factor a one (out of five) for the roller coaster's smoothness; Joe gave a four as he began feeling ill after his second ride. For the scream factor Nicole gave a five, Lisa gave a ten, and Joe gave a four. Mike from "NewsPlusNotes" praised the first drop for its freefall experience. In Griffon's opening year, it was voted the third best new ride for 2007 and the 27th best steel roller coaster in
A tourist's unfortunate bout of stomach upset on a Spanish roller coaster splashed liquid fecal matter on other customers. [SEP] Ghost Hole // that are lowered over riders. As of April 2009, there are two virtually identical vultures on the exterior of the ride, the serpents are again removed, and the vomiter/defecator has been given a female likeness, including a long blonde wig and a black skirt. The ride opens with a long trek up a slope similar to a roller coaster. A halved man hangs from the ceiling over the car, and the first full stunt passed is of an electric chair execution. After a brief U-turn outside, one is greeted by a bulging eyed bellhop and a plunge down another slope
Mainland China sees rise in new coronavirus cases. [SEP] SARS coronavirus // coronaviruses in Chinese bats. Phylogenetic analysis of these viruses indicated a high probability that SARS coronavirus originated in bats and spread to humans either directly or through animals held in Chinese markets. The bats did not show any visible signs of disease, but are the likely natural reservoirs of SARS-like coronaviruses. In late 2006, scientists from the Chinese Centre for Disease Control and Prevention of Hong Kong University and the Guangzhou Centre for Disease Control and Prevention established a genetic link between the SARS coronavirus appearing in civets and humans, confirming claims that the disease had jumped across species. The
Mainland China sees rise in new coronavirus cases. [SEP] Influenza A virus subtype H7N9 // 28, four provinces, Zhejiang, Shandong, Jiangxi, and Fujian, reported new cases, raising the total number of cases in mainland China to 125 with 24 deaths. On May 2, there were 127 confirmed cases in mainland China, of which 27 were fatal, and including the case in Taiwan there were a total of 128 cases worldwide. On May 6, in a weekly update, China's Ministry of Health announced there were 129 confirmed cases in mainland China with 31 deaths, for a total of 130 cases worldwide. On May 7, Hong Kong's Centre for Health Protection reported that there were 130 confirmed
Mainland China sees rise in new coronavirus cases. [SEP] Severe acute respiratory syndrome // show any visible signs of disease, but are the likely natural reservoirs of SARS-like coronaviruses. In late 2006, scientists from the Chinese Centre for Disease Control and Prevention of Hong Kong University and the Guangzhou Centre for Disease Control and Prevention established a genetic link between the SARS coronavirus appearing in civets and humans, bearing out claims that the disease had jumped across species. In December 2017, "after years of searching across China, where the disease first emerged, researchers reported ... that they had found a remote cave in Yunnan province, which is home to horseshoe bats that carry a
Mainland China sees rise in new coronavirus cases. [SEP] Human coronavirus HKU1 // these cases, French investigators utilized improved techniques for recovering the virus from nasopharyngeal aspirates and from stool samples. Human coronavirus HKU1 Human coronavirus HKU1 (HCoV-HKU1) is a positive-sense, single-stranded RNA virus with the HE gene, which distinguishes it as a group 2, or betacoronavirus. It was discovered in January 2005 in two patients in Hong Kong. HCoV-HKU1 was first identified in January, 2005, in a 71-year-old man who was hospitalized with an acute respiratory distress and radiolographically confirmed bilateral pneumonia. The man had recently returned to Hong Kong from Shenzhen, China. Woo, et al., were unsuccessful in their attempts to
Mainland China sees rise in new coronavirus cases. [SEP] SARS coronavirus // as human SARS victims. In late May 2003, studies from samples of wild animals sold as food in the local market in Guangdong, China, found the SARS coronavirus could be isolated from masked palm civets ("Paguma" sp.), but the animals did not always show clinical signs. The preliminary conclusion was the SARS virus crossed the xenographic barrier from palm civet to humans, and more than 10,000 masked palm civets were killed in Guangdong Province. Virus was also later found in raccoon dogs ("Nyctereuteus" sp.), ferret badgers ("Melogale" spp.), and domestic cats. In 2005, two studies identified a number of SARS-like
Mainland China sees rise in new coronavirus cases. [SEP] Coronavirus // 2013, a case of contamination from human to human in France was confirmed by the French Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. In addition, cases of person-to-person transmission have been reported by the Ministry of Health in Tunisia. Two confirmed cases seem to have caught the disease from their late father, who became ill after a visit to Qatar and Saudi Arabia. By Oct. 30 2013, there were 124 cases and 52 deaths in Saudi Arabia. After the Dutch Erasmus Medical Centre sequenced the virus, the virus was given a new name, Human Corona Virus-Erasmus Medical Centre (HCoV-EMC). The final
Mainland China sees rise in new coronavirus cases. [SEP] Influenza A virus subtype H7N9 // cases of H7N9 avian flu in mainland China following the hospitalization of a 79-year-old woman from China's Jiangxi province, bringing the count to 131 cases. The Ministry of Health of People's Republic of China reported on July 10 that in the month of June, there was only 1 confirmed case, and there were a total of 132 confirmed cases in Mainland China as of June 30, 2013 (43 fatal, 85 patient recovery cases). Though there is a slow increase in the number of cases, China recently warned that the transmission of H7N9 virus might be active again by autumn and
Mainland China sees rise in new coronavirus cases. [SEP] Severe acute respiratory syndrome // SARS victims. In late May 2003, studies were conducted using samples of wild animals sold as food in the local market in Guangdong, China. The results found that the SARS coronavirus could be isolated from masked palm civets ("Paguma" sp.), even if the animals did not show clinical signs of the virus. The preliminary conclusion was the SARS virus crossed the xenographic barrier from asian palm civet to humans, and more than 10,000 masked palm civets were killed in Guangdong Province. The virus was also later found in raccoon dogs ("Nyctereuteus" sp.), ferret badgers ("Melogale" spp.), and domestic cats. In
Mainland China sees rise in new coronavirus cases. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // United Kingdom, France, Germany, and the United Arab Emirates. According to a European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) publication, on April 2014, Tunisia had a total of 3 cases with 1 fatality. In May 2015, the first case in South Korea was confirmed in a man who had visited several Middle Eastern countries. As of 16 June 2015, a total of 150 cases has been infected, including 18 deaths, according to the World Health Organization (WHO). As of 29 June 2015, 32 people in South Korea have died from this outbreak, with 182 confirmed cases of infection. There
Mainland China sees rise in new coronavirus cases. [SEP] Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus // similar cases appeared in Qatar and Saudi Arabia. Additional cases were noted, with deaths associated, and rapid research and monitoring of this novel coronavirus began. It is not certain whether the infections are the result of a single zoonotic event with subsequent human-to-human transmission, or if the multiple geographic sites of infection represent multiple zoonotic events from a common unknown source. A study by Ziad Memish of Riyadh University and colleagues suggests that the virus arose sometime between July 2007 and June 2012, with perhaps as many as 7 separate zoonotic transmissions. Among animal reservoirs, CoV has a large genetic
Australian euthanasia law loses by single parliament vote. [SEP] Private member's bill // - both times with little debate - and given Royal Assent on 31 July. Despite much public debate ever since on the issue of compulsory voting, the legislation has never been repealed. Another very notable private member's bill was the "Euthanasia Laws Bill 1996", which deprived the Northern Territory, Australian Capital Territory and Norfolk Island legislatures of the power to make laws permitting euthanasia. This was introduced by Kevin Andrews, Member for Menzies, after the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly had passed such a law, the Rights of the Terminally Ill Act 1995. Although Andrews was a member of the Liberal
Australian euthanasia law loses by single parliament vote. [SEP] Euthanasia in Australia // euthanasia in November 2013, when a Greens-initiated voluntary euthanasia bill was narrowly defeated in the House of Assembly by a vote of 13-12. The bill would have allowed terminally ill Tasmanians to end their lives 10 days after making three separate requests to their doctor. Although both major parties allowed a conscience vote, all ten Liberals voted against the legislation, with Labor splitting seven in favour and three against, and all five Greens voting in favour. In November 2016, the South Australian House of Assembly narrowly rejected a private member's bill which would have legalised a right to request voluntary
Australian euthanasia law loses by single parliament vote. [SEP] Euthanasia in Australia // legislator David Leyonhjelm introduced a bill into the Senate to remove the federal ban on the Australian Capital Territory and Northern Territory legislating for euthanasia. The bill was given priority in the Senate and was subject to a conscience vote for both the Coalition Government and opposition Labor Party, though it was defeated at the second reading stage by 36 votes to 34. Euthanasia was legalised in Australia's Northern Territory, by the "Rights of the Terminally Ill Act 1995". It passed by a vote of 15 to 10 and a year later, a repeal bill was brought before the Northern
Australian euthanasia law loses by single parliament vote. [SEP] Rights of the Terminally Ill Act 1995 // from the federal parliament. Consequently, the federal parliament retains the right to legislate for the territory, including the right to territory laws. In practice, it very rarely exercised that right. On 25 March 1997, the federal parliament passed the "Euthanasia Laws Act 1997", which, although not technically repealing the "Rights of the Terminally Ill Act", for all practical purposes rendered it of no legal effect. Rather than repeal the Act directly, the law instead amended the "Northern Territory (Self-Government) Act 1978", the act under which the Commonwealth Parliament has delegated legislative power to the Northern Territory Parliament—effectively the territory's "constitution"
Australian euthanasia law loses by single parliament vote. [SEP] Euthanasia in Australia // legislatures, are not guaranteed by the Australian constitution and may be amended or overruled by the Commonwealth. However, before the Commonwealth government made this amendment, three people had already died through physician assisted suicide under the legislation, aided by Dr Philip Nitschke. The first person was a carpenter, Bob Dent, who died on 22 September 1996. Liberal Democrats Senator David Leyonhjelm attempted to repeal the "Euthanasia Laws Act" and in August 2018 introduced the "Restoring Territory Rights (Assisted Suicide Legislation) Bill 2015". The bill was rejected by the Senate by 36 votes to 34. Tasmania came close to legalising voluntary
Australian euthanasia law loses by single parliament vote. [SEP] Euthanasia in Australia // euthanasia in circumstances where a person is in unbearable pain and suffering from a terminal illness. The bill was the first ever euthanasia bill to pass a second reading stage (27 votes to 19) though the bill was rejected during the clauses debate of the bill (23 votes all, with the Speaker's casting vote against the bill). On 20 September 2017, the Voluntary Assisted Dying Bill 2017 was introduced into the Victorian Parliament by the Andrews Labor Government. The bill was modelled on the recommendations of an expert panel chaired by former Australian Medical Association president Professor Brian Owler. The
Australian euthanasia law loses by single parliament vote. [SEP] Euthanasia in Australia // Territory Parliament in August 1996, but was defeated by 14 votes to 11. Soon after, the law was voided by the "Euthanasia Laws Act 1997" (Cth), a statute of the Australian Parliament that amended the "Northern Territory (Self-Government) Act 1978", the "Australian Capital Territory (Self-Government) Act 1988" (Cth), and the "Norfolk Island Act 1979" (Cth), to remove the power of each of those territories to legalise euthanasia, and specifically to repeal the "Rights of the Terminally Ill Act 1995" (NT). The powers of the Northern Territory, the Australian Capital Territory and the Norfolk Island legislatures, unlike those of the State
Australian euthanasia law loses by single parliament vote. [SEP] Brendan Nelson // passed. In December 1996, Liberal MP Kevin Andrews raised a private members' bill to overturn the Northern Territory's euthanasia legislation, which had been championed by Dr Philip Nitschke. Nelson, along with former New South Wales premier John Fahey, were accused of convincing the son of the first man to die under the law, who had previously been a euthanasia advocate, to change his mind. The man, a branch secretary of a rural Liberal branch, ended up in hospital after suffering a nervous breakdown following the publicity surrounding the matter. When the bill went through the House of Representatives on 10
Australian euthanasia law loses by single parliament vote. [SEP] Rights of the Terminally Ill Act 1995 // or "charter"—removing the Territory's constitutional power to pass any law permitting euthanasia. The Act technically remains in force in the Territory, but to the extent that it permits euthanasia it is now invalid and of no legal effect. Although passed as a reaction to the situation in the Northern Territory, the "Euthanasia Laws Act 1997" made similar amendments with respect to Australia's two other self-governing territories, the Australian Capital Territory and Norfolk Island, also preventing them from passing a law permitting euthanasia. The "Euthanasia Laws Act 1997" has no effect on the power of an Australian state to pass any
Australian euthanasia law loses by single parliament vote. [SEP] Voluntary euthanasia // was passed in the Northern Territory of Australia. Four patients died through assisted suicide under the Act, using a device designed by Dr Philip Nitschke. The legislation was overturned by Australia’s Federal Parliament in 1997. In response to the overturning of the Act, Nitschke founded EXIT International. In 2009, an Australian quadriplegic was granted the right to refuse sustenance and be allowed to die. The Supreme Court of Western Australia ruled that it was up to Christian Rossiter, aged 49, to decide if he was to continue to receive medical care (tube feeding) and that his carers had to abide
A New Therapy May Cure Kids of Peanut Allergy [SEP] Peanut allergy // people outside of carefully conducted trials. In those with mild peanut allergies, gradually eating more and more peanuts resulted in at least some short-term benefits. As of 2012, the evidence did not show that this was safe or effective. Sublingual immunotherapy involves putting gradually increasing doses of an allergy extract under a person's tongue. The extract is then either spat or swallowed. As of 2014, the evidence did not show that this was safe or effective. Epicutaneous immunotherapy involves giving the allergen through a patch and has also been researched. Peanut allergy Peanut allergy is a type of food allergy
A New Therapy May Cure Kids of Peanut Allergy [SEP] Peanut allergy // and laboratory testing such as the skin prick test. Peanut allergy may be preventable by feeding babies who are at high risk foods that contain peanuts when they are as young as four to six months of age. As of 2018, there is no cure for peanut allergy other than strict avoidance of peanuts and peanut-containing foods. Extra care is needed for food consumed at or purchased from restaurants. Total avoidance is complicated because the declaration of the presence of trace amounts of allergens in foods is not mandatory (see regulation of labelling). Peanut allergies tend to resolve in childhood
A New Therapy May Cure Kids of Peanut Allergy [SEP] Peanut allergy // and babies. The principal treatment for anaphylaxis is epinephrine as an injection. In the United States, peanut allergy is present in 0.6% of the population. It is a common cause of food-related fatal and near-fatal allergic reactions. The declaration of the presence of trace amounts of allergens in foods is not mandatory in any country, with the exception of Brazil. Symptoms of peanut allergy are related to the action of Immunoglobulin E (IgE) and other anaphylatoxins which act to release histamine and other mediator substances from mast cells (degranulation). In addition to other effects, histamine induces vasodilation of arterioles and
A New Therapy May Cure Kids of Peanut Allergy [SEP] Peanut allergy // system towards a Th2 type response. Peanut proteins that undergo non-enzymatic changes through Maillard reactions when cooked or exposed to room temperature have an increase in AGE modifications on their structure. These changes have been shown to stimulate RAGE receptors and SR-AI/II on dendritic cells and thus lead to an increase in IL-4 and IL-5-releasing Th2 cells. Peanut allergies are uncommon in children of undeveloped countries where peanut products have been used to relieve malnutrition. The hygiene hypothesis proposes that the relatively low incidence of childhood peanut allergies in undeveloped countries is a result of exposure to diverse food sources
A New Therapy May Cure Kids of Peanut Allergy [SEP] Talizumab // the safety and efficacy data of these two trials, a “switch-over” study was performed on TNX-901 and subsequently a double-blinded, randomized, placebo-controlled, and multi-center trial of TNX-901 was designed and performed on patients with extreme sensitivity to peanuts. The clinical trial results indicate that with the administration of TNX-901, patients, who could tolerate an average of half a peanut before the treatment, were able to ingest up to 9 peanuts before they started to have allergic reactions. Therefore, TNX-901 cannot cure peanut allergy, but could protect patients from the often violent and life-threatening reactions upon the accidental exposure to peanut.
A New Therapy May Cure Kids of Peanut Allergy [SEP] DBV Technologies // of a systemic, allergic reaction in the event of accidental exposure to the allergen. The clinical development program for Viaskin Peanut has received "Fast Track" designation from the US Food and Drug Administration. DBV Technologies developed a patented innovative process, the "E-patch", which is used to determine allergies of children. The ready-to-use standardised patch tests are highly reliable and conserve the allergic agents in their best state of allergy. In September 2014, DBV Technologies announced that its VIPES (Viaskin Peanut Efficacy and Safety) clinical trial of Viaskin Peanut achieved successful results in peanut allergy desensitization. DBV Technologies DBV Technologies SA
A New Therapy May Cure Kids of Peanut Allergy [SEP] Peanut allergy // Practices and allergen control measures adopted are not sufficient to prevent the presence of accidental trace amounts. These allergens include wheat, rye, barley, oats and their hybrids, crustaceans, eggs, fish, peanuts, soybean, milk of all species of mammalians, almonds, hazelnuts, cashew nuts, Brazil nuts, macadamia nuts, walnuts, pecan nuts, pistaches, pine nuts, and chestnuts. Immunotherapy involves attempts to reduce or eliminate allergic sensitivity by repeated exposure. This active research concept involves swallowing small amounts of peanuts, holding a peanut product under the tongue - sublingual immunotherapy - skin patches or injections. None of these are considered ready for use in
A New Therapy May Cure Kids of Peanut Allergy [SEP] Peanut allergy // Book", Harvard pediatrician Michael Young characterized this secondary contact risk to allergic individuals as rare and limited to minor symptoms. Some reactions have been noted to be psychogenic in nature, the result of conditioning, and belief rather than a true chemical reaction. Blinded, placebo-controlled studies were unable to produce any reactions using the odor of peanut butter or its mere proximity. The allergy arises due to dendritic cells recognizing peanut allergens as foreign pathogens. They present the antigens on MHC class II receptors and these antigens are recognized by cell receptors on T cells. The contact along with the release
A New Therapy May Cure Kids of Peanut Allergy [SEP] Peanut allergy // taken in response to the threat may be an over-reaction out of proportion to the level of danger. Media sensationalism has been blamed for anxiety outweighing reality. Frequency among adults and children is similar—around 1%—but one study showed self-reports of peanut allergy are on the rise in children in the United States. The number of young children self-reporting the allergy doubled between 1997 and 2002. Studies have found that self-reported rates of food allergies is higher than clinically-observed rates of food allergies. The rates in self-reported incidence of the allergy, previously thought to be rare, may not be correlated with
A New Therapy May Cure Kids of Peanut Allergy [SEP] Talizumab // phase II studies of TNX-901 on peanut allergy. The media hailed the success of the trials, but expressed outcry over the fate of the TNX-901 program on peanut allergy. Ten years have passed, since Tanox was forced to put its TNX-901 program on the shelf. In the meantime, a phase II clinical trial of omalizumab on peanut allergy failed to finish, as a couple of patients suffered anaphylactic reactions during the testing for baseline sensitivity for peanut allergens and the trial had to be suspended. TNX-901 is a humanized anti-IgE antibody with a unique set of binding specificity to human
Preventive care does not save the government money. [SEP] Preventive healthcare // preventive health measures should save more money than they cost, when factoring in treatment costs in the absence of such measures. Others argue in favor of "good value" or conferring significant health benefits even if the measures do not save money Furthermore, preventive health services are often described as one entity though they comprise a myriad of different services, each of which can individually lead to net costs, savings, or neither. Greater differentiation of these services is necessary to fully understand both the financial and health effects. A 2010 study reported that in the United States, vaccinating children, cessation of
Preventive care does not save the government money. [SEP] Preventive healthcare // in the United States still remains low, especially among Latinos and African-Americans. Overall, preventive services are difficult to implement because healthcare providers have limited time with patients and must integrate a variety of preventive health measures from different sources. While these specific services bring about small net savings not every preventive health measure saves more than it costs. A 1970s study showed that preventing heart attacks by treating hypertension early on with drugs actually did not save money in the long run. The money saved by evading treatment from heart attack and stroke only amounted to about a quarter of
Preventive care does not save the government money. [SEP] Health care reforms proposed during the Obama administration // to vastly improve the productivity of its food production and reduce these costs over time. He wrote: Increased use of preventive care (e.g., regular doctor visits) is one way of reducing health care spending. Official budget scores of universal health care proposals state that most of its savings would be from providing preventative care to the uninsured. Canadian physicians, who provide universal health care including preventative care, found that they could lower their total health care expenditures by 40% simply by increasing appropriate and reducing inappropriate preventative care measures. A single uninsured cancer patient diagnosed at stage four can incur
Preventive care does not save the government money. [SEP] United States National Health Care Act // insurance company overhead and hospital billing costs. An analysis of the bill by Physicians for a National Health Program estimated the immediate savings at $350 billion per year. Others have estimated a long-term savings amounting to 40% of all national health expenditures due to preventative health care. Preventative care can save several hundreds of billions of dollars per year in the U.S., because for example cancer patients are more likely to be diagnosed at Stage I where curative treatment is typically a few outpatient visits, instead of at Stage III or later in an emergency room where treatment can involve
Preventive care does not save the government money. [SEP] Healthcare reform in the United States // III or later in an emergency room where treatment can involve years of hospitalization and is often terminal. Others have estimated a long-term savings amounting to 40% of all national health expenditures due to preventative health care, although estimates from the Congressional Budget Office and "The New England Journal of Medicine" have found that preventative care is more expensive. Any national system would be paid for in part through taxes replacing insurance premiums, but advocates also believe savings would be realized through preventative care and the elimination of insurance company overhead and hospital billing costs. An analysis of a single-payer
Preventive care does not save the government money. [SEP] Preventive healthcare // effective and whether there is an economics evidence base for health promotion and disease prevention. The need for and interest in preventive care is driven by the imperative to reduce health care costs while improving quality of care and the patient experience. Preventive care can lead to improved health outcomes and cost savings potential. Services such as health assessments/screenings, prenatal care, and telehealth and telemedicine can reduce morbidity or mortality with low cost or cost savings. Specifically, health assessments/screenings have cost savings potential, with varied cost-effectiveness based on screening and assessment type. Inadequate prenatal care can lead to an increased
Preventive care does not save the government money. [SEP] Health care finance in the United States // be cost-effective by providing health benefits, while others are not cost-effective. Preventive care is typically provided to many people who would never become ill, and for those who would have become ill is partially offset by the health care costs during additional years of life. On the other hand, research conducted by Novartis argues that the countries that have excelled in getting the highest value for healthcare spending are the ones who have invested more in prevention, early diagnosis and treatment. The trick is to avoid getting patients to hospital, which is where highest healthcare dollars are being consumed. Not
Preventive care does not save the government money. [SEP] Healthcare reform in the United States // political support than 20% congressional co-sponsorship. Advocates argue that preventative health care expenditures can save several hundreds of billions of dollars per year because publicly funded universal health care would benefit employers and consumers, that employers would benefit from a bigger pool of potential customers and that employers would likely pay less, and would be spared administrative costs of health care benefits. It is also argued that inequities between employers would be reduced. Also, for example, cancer patients are more likely to be diagnosed at Stage I where curative treatment is typically a few outpatient visits, instead of at Stage
Preventive care does not save the government money. [SEP] Healthcare reform debate in the United States // growth. Services marketed as preventive care are a subject of continuing debate. Years of study have shown that most common services provide no benefit to patients. The House and Senate bills would mandate the purchase of policies that pay 100% of the cost of certain services, with no co-pay; when the Senate bill was amended to mandate paying for tests that a federal panel and U.S. News & World Report said "do more harm than good," The New York Times wrote, "This sorry episode does not bode well for reform efforts to rein in spending on other procedures based on
Preventive care does not save the government money. [SEP] Preventive healthcare // the topic of Telehealth and Telemedicine and how they contribute to preventive services. Policy actions and provision of preventive services do not guarantee utilization. Reimbursement has remained a significant barrier to adoption due to variances in payer and state level reimbursement policies and guidelines through government and commercial payers. Americans use preventive services at about half the recommended rate and cost-sharing, such as deductibles, co-insurance, or copayments, also reduce the likelihood that preventive services will be used. Further, despite the ACA’s enhancement of Medicare benefits and preventive services, there were no effects on preventive service utilization, calling out the fact
The ratio of corporate profits to wages is now higher than at any time since just before the Great Depression. [SEP] Wage ratio // the typical worker’s pay in the 1950s, with that multiple rising to 42-to-1 in 1980, and to 120-to-1 in 2000". While not as extreme, similar trends have been observed around the world. With wage ratios steadily climbing, there has been a push to have increased transparency in publicizing the ratio for many of the world's largest companies. There have also been a number of movements around to the world to attempt to regulate the pay ratio between executives and workers, or to regulate executive pay from the workers' end. Canada: The Wagemark Foundation, a Toronto-based not-for-profit organization is working to
The ratio of corporate profits to wages is now higher than at any time since just before the Great Depression. [SEP] Tendency of the rate of profit to fall // since 1855, confirming Marx's hypothesis. In 2007, John Bradford reassessed the theory of the TRPF, and computed the trends for US manufacturing and non-financials for 1930 to 2005. Basu et al. (2012) reported evidence of a falling U.S. profit rate at about 0.3% a year on average for 1948–2007, Basu et al. (2013) noted there is no "general theory" of capitalist crisis, and that the correct measurement and true economic role of profitability are still disputed. In a 2014 Swedish thesis, Kalogerakos applies multivariate cointegration analysis to U.S. manufacturing data 1948–2011, to analyze the relationships between the profit rate, capital
The ratio of corporate profits to wages is now higher than at any time since just before the Great Depression. [SEP] Opposition to trade unions // through company profits. However, as Milton Friedman pointed out, profits are only very rarely high enough. 80% of national income is wages, and only about 6% is profits after tax, providing very little room for higher wages, even if profits could be totally used up. Moreover, profits are invested leading to an increase in capital: which raises the value of labor, increasing wages. If profits were totally removed, this source of wage increase would be removed. According to The New York Times, wages in 2012 fell to a record low of 43.5 percent of GDP. Friedrich Hayek argued that the
The ratio of corporate profits to wages is now higher than at any time since just before the Great Depression. [SEP] Causes of income inequality in the United States // in estate and capital gains taxes, and tax rates on high levels of income. Arguing against the proposition that the explosion in pay for corporate executives – which grew from 35X average worker pay in 1978 to over 250X average pay before the 2007 recession – is driven by an increased demand for scarce talent and set according to performance, Krugman points out that multiple factors outside of executives' control govern corporate profitability, particularly in short term when the head of a company like Enron may look like a great success. Further, corporate boards follow other companies in setting pay
The ratio of corporate profits to wages is now higher than at any time since just before the Great Depression. [SEP] Wage ratio // Wage ratio In economics, the wage ratio refers to the ratio of the top salaries in a group (company, city, country, etc.) to the bottom salaries. It is a measure of wage dispersion. There has been a resurgence for the importance of equitable wage ratio. The amount of money paid out to executives has steadily been on the rise. "An April 2013 study by Bloomberg finds that large public company CEOs were paid an average of 204 times the compensation of rank-and-file workers in their industries. By comparison, it is estimated that the average CEO was paid about 20 times
The ratio of corporate profits to wages is now higher than at any time since just before the Great Depression. [SEP] Causes of income inequality in the United States // propounds that a swelling corporate financial and banking sector has caused Gini Coefficients to rise in the U.S. since 1980: "Financial services' share of GDP in America doubled to 8% between 1980 and 2000; over the same period their profits rose from about 10% to 35% of total corporate profits, before collapsing in 2007–09. Bankers are being paid more, too. In America the compensation of workers in financial services was similar to average compensation until 1980. Now it is twice that average." The summary argument, considering these findings, is that if corporatism is the consolidation and sharing of economic and
The ratio of corporate profits to wages is now higher than at any time since just before the Great Depression. [SEP] Rate of profit // so than before sales per worker have been increased, causes the tendency of the rate of profit to fall. Thus, capitalists are caught in a prisoner's dilemma or rationality trap. This "new" rate of profit (r'), which tends to fall, would be measured as At the beginning of a "year" (possibly another length of time period, in this case other numerical values will arise) the capitalist has to invest an amount of capital. For example, he must invest: Now, it is assumed that during the year the capitalist can produce and sell commodities at a total price of "300 €".
The ratio of corporate profits to wages is now higher than at any time since just before the Great Depression. [SEP] Tendency of the rate of profit to fall // deflation—lower prices, lower profits—would be followed by worldwide revolution. Instead, capitalism has become vastly more profitable”. The McKinsey Global Institute claims that the three decades from 1985 to 2014 were the golden years for profits from stocks and bonds, but forecasts that average profitability will be lower in the future. In May 2018, a WSJ analyst concluded that if taxcut effects are removed from the figures, real US corporate profits were not growing anymore, notwithstanding a surge in profits on S&P listed shares. Another WSJ analyst commented, at the same date, that "With the profits data, it could take several
The ratio of corporate profits to wages is now higher than at any time since just before the Great Depression. [SEP] Human resources // after several strikes and employee lockouts. This action was followed by other companies, for example, Ford had high turnover ratios of 380 percent in 1913, but just one year later, the line workers of the company has doubled their daily salaries from $2.50 to $5, even though $2.50 was a fair wage at that time. This example clearly shows the importance of effective management which leads to a greater outcome of employee satisfaction as well as encouraging employees to work together in order to achieve better business objectives. During the 1970s, American business began experiencing challenges due to the substantial
The ratio of corporate profits to wages is now higher than at any time since just before the Great Depression. [SEP] Wage ratio // median pay of their workers in 2017. Wage ratio In economics, the wage ratio refers to the ratio of the top salaries in a group (company, city, country, etc.) to the bottom salaries. It is a measure of wage dispersion. There has been a resurgence for the importance of equitable wage ratio. The amount of money paid out to executives has steadily been on the rise. "An April 2013 study by Bloomberg finds that large public company CEOs were paid an average of 204 times the compensation of rank-and-file workers in their industries. By comparison, it is estimated that the
China sends medical supplies, experts to help Italy battle coronavirus. [SEP] Responses to the West African Ebola virus epidemic // BioProtection Systems of Ames, Iowa to develop the product for use in humans. By 20 October, Canada had pledged 65.4 million Canadian dollars to the fight against Ebola. As part of its contribution, Canada has deployed two mobile diagnostic laboratories in Sierra Leone, and shipped the first batch of an experimental Ebola vaccine to the WHO in Geneva. In August, China sent their second donation of supplies to Guinea, Sierra Leone, and Liberia. The supplies, worth 30 million yuan (4.9 million US dollars), include medical protective clothes, disinfectants, thermo-detectors, and medicines. China has also sent three expert teams composed of
China sends medical supplies, experts to help Italy battle coronavirus. [SEP] Responses to the West African Ebola virus epidemic // - to be used to set up a treatment center in Liberia, and to increase the number of Chinese medical staff working in West Africa to fight the epidemic. China has also contributed to the World Food Program activities in the area. On 31 October, China announced that a medical squad of the People's Liberation Army, which has experience from a 2002 outbreak of SARS, will build a 100-bed treatment center in Liberia. The center will be open for operation in a month's time, and 480 PLA medical staff will be deployed to treat Ebola patients. On 10 September, Cuba
China sends medical supplies, experts to help Italy battle coronavirus. [SEP] Coronavirus // 2013, a case of contamination from human to human in France was confirmed by the French Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. In addition, cases of person-to-person transmission have been reported by the Ministry of Health in Tunisia. Two confirmed cases seem to have caught the disease from their late father, who became ill after a visit to Qatar and Saudi Arabia. By Oct. 30 2013, there were 124 cases and 52 deaths in Saudi Arabia. After the Dutch Erasmus Medical Centre sequenced the virus, the virus was given a new name, Human Corona Virus-Erasmus Medical Centre (HCoV-EMC). The final
China sends medical supplies, experts to help Italy battle coronavirus. [SEP] Responses to the West African Ebola virus epidemic // epidemiologists and specialists in disinfection and protection. Some Chinese companies in West Africa have also joined the relief efforts. China Kingho Group, a leading exploration and mining company in Sierra Leone, donated 400 million leones (about $90,000) to the government and people of Sierra Leone on 15 August. On 16 August, Chinese President Xi Jinping and UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon discussed several issues, including Ebola, in their fourth meeting this year. Xi said China will continue to make joint efforts with the international community to prevent and control the Ebola virus outbreak that has hit West Africa. China's medical teams
China sends medical supplies, experts to help Italy battle coronavirus. [SEP] Influenza A virus subtype H7N9 // the new viral strain, and supplied these synthesized genes to the CDC. The scientific community has praised China for its transparency and rapid response to the outbreak of H7N9. In an editorial on April 24, 2013, the journal "Nature" said "China deserves credit for its rapid response to the outbreaks of H7N9 avian influenza, and its early openness in the reporting and sharing of data." This, in spite of initial worries by Chinese scientists and officials that they might lose credit for their work in isolating and sequencing the novel H7N9 virus, after learning that pharmaceutical company Novartis and the
China sends medical supplies, experts to help Italy battle coronavirus. [SEP] Middle East respiratory syndrome // based on the virus's RNA obtained from the Qatari case. On 25 September 2012, the WHO announced that it was "engaged in further characterizing the novel coronavirus" and that it had "immediately alerted all its Member States about the virus and has been leading the coordination and providing guidance to health authorities and technical health agencies." The Erasmus Medical Center (EMC) in Rotterdam "tested, sequenced and identified" a sample provided to EMC virologist Ron Fouchier by Ali Mohamed Zaki in November 2012. On 8 November 2012 in an article published in the New England Journal of Medicine, Dr. Zaki and
China sends medical supplies, experts to help Italy battle coronavirus. [SEP] Giulio Gallazzi // d’Oro Award” in Shanghai, from the China-Italy Chamber of Commerce (CICC) under the patronage of the Italian Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation and the Chinese Government. The “Panda d’Oro Award”, recognizes Chinese and Italian companies which most contributed to the development and reinforcement of bilateral economic relations between the two Countries. Giulio Gallazzi Giulio Gallazzi (born 8 January 1964 in Bologna, Italy) is an Italian businessman. He is the Chairman/CEO of SRI Group, a multinational management consultancy and corporate finance advisory company founded in 2001. Graduated with highest grades in Business and Economics from University of Bologna.Achieved his
China sends medical supplies, experts to help Italy battle coronavirus. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // being followed up. On 31 May 2013, the Italian health ministry announced its first case of MERS-CoV in a 45-year-old man who had traveled to Jordan. The patient is being currently treated in a hospital in Tuscany and his condition was reported as not life-threatening. On 1 November 2013, a woman who had recently traveled to Saudi Arabia for the Hajj, contracted the disease. She is stated to be in stable condition, and investigators from the World Health Organization are investigating whom she came in contact with. In February 2013, the first UK case of the novel coronavirus was confirmed
China sends medical supplies, experts to help Italy battle coronavirus. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // coronavirus researcher at the Erasmus Medical Center (EMC) in Rotterdam, The Netherlands. The second laboratory-proven case was in London, confirmed by the UK Health Protection Agency (HPA). The HPA named the virus the London1_novel CoV 2012. On 8 November 2012, in an article published in the New England Journal of Medicine, Dr. Zaki and co-authors from the Erasmus Medical Center published more details, including a scientific name, Human Coronavirus-Erasmus Medical Center (HCoV-EMC), which was then used in scientific literature. In the article, they noted four respiratory human coronaviruses (HCoV) known to be endemic: 229E, OC43, NL63, and HKU1. In May
China sends medical supplies, experts to help Italy battle coronavirus. [SEP] Responses to the West African Ebola virus epidemic // Guinea at a cost of $10 million. In February of that same year, Russia delivered 37 tonnes of humanitarian aid to Guinea, including food supplies and medical instruments. The Government of Taiwan gave $1 million to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). The donation was made to the CDC Foundation's Global Disaster Response Fund which provides materials from protective gear to vehicles used to provide transportation for medical workers. Taiwan also donated 100,000 units of coveralls and surgical masks to Guinea, Liberia, and Sierra Leone. In August 2014 a team of 14 health workers from Uganda, which
A morgue worker was accidentally cremated while napping or pretending to be dead. [SEP] Badlaa // her that the man's blood all drained abruptly in the hotel. A child’s bloody print is found, but Scully doesn’t believe that a child did this. Meanwhile, the beggar, somehow disguised as an ordinary-looking Caucasian man, applies for a janitorial job at a Cheverly, Maryland elementary school. In the morgue, Scully describes the massive stomach damage done to the body which leads Doggett to the idea of drugs being forcibly cut out of him. However, the man showed no sign of drugs in the blood tests and Scully tells Doggett that his time of death was 24 to 36 hours
A morgue worker was accidentally cremated while napping or pretending to be dead. [SEP] Premature burial // Matarese discovered this, called paramedics, and avoided live embalming or premature burial. In 2014 in Peraia, Thessaloniki, in Macedonia, Greece, the police discovered that a 45-year-old woman was buried alive and died of asphyxia after being declared clinically dead by a private hospital; she was discovered just shortly after being buried by children playing near the cemetery who heard screams from inside the earth and afterwards her family was reported as considering suing the private hospital. In 2015 it was reported that a separate incident also occurred in 2014 in Peraia, Thessaloniki. In Macedonia, Greece, police investigation concluded that a
A morgue worker was accidentally cremated while napping or pretending to be dead. [SEP] Patient and mortuary neglect // they are transferred to the morgue. The following examples are forms of mortuary neglect that pertain to the ethical treatment of a corpse. Improper embalming is the utilization of embalming techniques that cause premature decomposition of the body especially in cases where the body in question is to be presented in an open-casket funeral. In addition, not refrigerating the body immediately following death, but before the embalming process could lead to rapid deterioration of the human remains as well. On August 29, 1994, widow Marian Washington filed suit against funeral home, John T. Rhines Co., for improperly embalming her late
A morgue worker was accidentally cremated while napping or pretending to be dead. [SEP] Taphophobia // of decomposition are mistaken for signs of life. There have been many urban legends of people being accidentally buried alive. Legends included elements such as someone entering into the state of sopor or coma, only to wake up years later and die a horrible death. Other legends tell of coffins opened to find a corpse with a long beard or corpses with the hands raised and palms turned upward. Of note is a legend about the premature burial of Ann Hill Carter Lee, the wife of Henry Lee III. On his deathbed in 1799, George Washington made his attendants promise
A morgue worker was accidentally cremated while napping or pretending to be dead. [SEP] Breathing (film) // Every working day, he commutes on the train into central Vienna and passing a subway holiday ad that shows a woman in a South Sea paradise and reads: "Tauchen Sie ein Ins Abenteuer! ("Dive Into Adventure!"). The mortuary where he works is apparently Vienna's giant Bestattung Wien (Funeral Vienna), where he and his co-workers are involved in transporting corpses from place-of-death and from morgue to cemetery in a large-scale, routinized operation. Initially, he is tasked only with observing. In his first encounters with corpses, his disgust and horror is barely suppressed. One of his co-workers seems actively hostile at first.
A morgue worker was accidentally cremated while napping or pretending to be dead. [SEP] Mummies of Guanajuato // disease. It is thought that in some cases, the dying may have been buried alive by accident, resulting horrific facial expressions. however, perceived facial expressions are most often the result of postmortem processes. One of the mummies who was buried alive was Ignacia Aguilar. She suffered from a strange sickness that made her heart appear to stop on several occasions. During one of these incidents, her heart appeared to stop for more than a day. Thinking she had died, her relatives decided to bury her. When her body was disinterred, it was noticed that she was facing down, biting her
A morgue worker was accidentally cremated while napping or pretending to be dead. [SEP] Kissed // job at a funeral home to be closer to dead bodies. The funeral home's janitor Jan (James Timmons) believes, like Sandra, that dead bodies still have a soul in them. While driving the hearse with a body in a coffin in the back through a car wash, Sandra looks at the body and finds a shining light, believing that body's soul is alive somewhere. Mr. Wallis apprentices Sandra in embalming. She starts studying mortuary science, where she meets a medical student named Matt (Peter Outerbridge) who also must study corpses for his major. Matt and Sandra begin to date, and
A morgue worker was accidentally cremated while napping or pretending to be dead. [SEP] Premature burial // exhumed had revived in his or her coffin. Nevertheless, patients have been documented as late as the 1890s as accidentally being sent to the morgue or trapped in a steel box after erroneously being declared dead. Newspapers have reported cases of exhumed corpses which appear to have been accidentally buried alive. On February 21, 1885, "The New York Times" gave a disturbing account of such a case. The victim was a man from Buncombe County whose name was given as "Jenkins". His body was found turned over onto its front inside the coffin, with much of his hair pulled out.
A morgue worker was accidentally cremated while napping or pretending to be dead. [SEP] Patient and mortuary neglect // was discovered improperly embalmed after maggots were seeping out of its orifices, commingling of bodies, blood stains were found on the walls, and tools used were not cleaned from one autopsy to the next. Needless to say, the appeal was not granted. This form of abuse consists of selling body parts stolen from carcasses that are sent to the morgue for embalming. Commingling of ashes is putting several carcasses in the same crematorium during the same burn cycle. This act undermines the respect due a passed loved one. In this form of abuse, funeral home operators dispose of the body
A morgue worker was accidentally cremated while napping or pretending to be dead. [SEP] Premature burial // his steel coffin began to bend under the weight of the earth used to cover it, the experiment was aborted. Premature burial Premature burial, also known as live burial, burial alive, or vivisepulture, means to be buried while still alive. Animals or humans may be buried alive accidentally on the mistaken assumption that they are dead, or intentionally as a form of torture, murder, or execution. It may also occur with consent of the victim as a part of a stunt, with the intention to escape. Fear of being buried alive is reported to be among the most common phobias.
Mexico ambassador resigns after book theft allegation. [SEP] Ten Tragic Days // resign. President Madero replied to the Spanish Minister that he did not recognize the right of diplomatists accredited to a nation to interfere in its domestic affairs; he called attention to the fact, which he feared some of the diplomatists had somehow overlooked, that he was the constitutional President of Mexico, and declared that his resignation would plunge the country into political chaos. He added that he might be killed, but he would not resign. Later that same day, Ambassador Wilson went to the Palace, accompanied by the German Minister. Their objective, he says, was "to confer with Gen. Huerta."
Mexico ambassador resigns after book theft allegation. [SEP] Mexican presidential expenses controversy // investigations found that business addresses listed on expenses reports were false, and that the telephone numbers of suppliers used by the government had been disconnected. Fox acknowledged that the expenditures were of importance to all Mexicans and promised that those found responsible would be fired. He accepted the resignation of Carlos Rojas, the head of the presidential acquisitions committee and a longtime friend of the president. Three members of Rojas' staff also resigned and three more were suspended. The president sought to turn the expenses controversy to his advantage by saying the fact that his own government had put the
Mexico ambassador resigns after book theft allegation. [SEP] Gustavo de Greiff // poll ratings, with higher approval percentages than those of the President and other public officials. After de Greiff retired as Attorney General he was given a diplomatic post as Colombia's Ambassador to the United States of Mexico. Some of the challenges he faced during his time as ambassador included allegations of corruption and bribe taking, the cancellation of his United States travel visa, protesters who wanted him declared persona non grata in Mexico, and assisting with Ernesto Samper's presidential visit to Mexico. De Greiff was one of the few Colombian ambassadors who did not resign following the political scandal that
Mexico ambassador resigns after book theft allegation. [SEP] Jorge Bolaños // of the Cuban Foreign Ministry. During his stay in Mexico, he is known to have had close links with Venezuelan Diplomat Livia Antonieta Acosta-Noguera; a lady who was later transferred to Peru and afterwards to Miami, to serve as Consul, and in December 2011 she appeared conspiring against the U.S. in a documentary made by the Spanish language TV Network UNIVISION called "The Iranian Threat". In January 29, 2012, one of the students from the University of Mexico UNAM publicly stated that Ambassador Bolanos was conspiring with Livia Acosta against the U.S., and Ambassador Bolanos continues to enjoy diplomatic immunity
Mexico ambassador resigns after book theft allegation. [SEP] Alejandro Estivill // of Mexico in Montreal, Canada, 2016. On June 1, 2012, President Felipe Calderón appointed him Ambassador of Mexico (a rank he will hold for life, as a career member of Mexico's Foreign Service). https://web.archive.org/web/20110615062721/http://www2.eluniversal.com.mx/pls/impreso/noticia.html?id_nota=43246&tabla=cultura https://web.archive.org/web/20100104194324/http://ficticia.com/autores/alejestivillsem.html http://www.jornada.unam.mx/2008/02/10/index.php?section=cultura&article=a04n1cul Alejandro Estivill Alejandro Ives Estivill Castro is a Mexican Diplomat and novelist. He specializes in Mexican literature of the 20th Century. He holds a BA in Hispanic Literature from the National Autonomous University of Mexico (UNAM) and a PhD. in Literature from El Colegio de México. He participated in the workshop that would originate the "Crack Movement" in 1999, and with authors Jorge Volpi,
Mexico ambassador resigns after book theft allegation. [SEP] Carlos Pascual (diplomat) // Barack Obama as ambassador to Mexico, he was confirmed by the United States Senate on August 7, 2009. He presented his credentials to the Mexican government on August 9, 2009 and personally to President Felipe Calderón on October 21, 2009. Pascual submitted his resignation as Ambassador to Mexico on March 19, 2011 in part due to tensions with Calderón. Tensions with President Calderón arose as a result of the WikiLeaks release of diplomatic cables in which Pascual criticized the Mexican military's ability or willingness to fight the Mexican drug cartels. Pascual is considered to be the first casualty of the
Mexico ambassador resigns after book theft allegation. [SEP] Jaliya Wickramasuriya // States and Mexico. During his tenure, he was investigated by the IRS on tax evasion and the US government requested the government of Sri Lanka recall Wickramasuirya. As a result, Wickramasuirya was recalled to Sri Lanka in July 2014 and was replaced by Asela Weerakoon on a temporarily basis until Prasad Kariyawasam was appointed as the permanent ambassador. The Police Financial Crimes Investigations Division (FCID) arrested him on 17 November 2016 after he tried to flee the country from Katunayake Airport, and was a suspect of allegedly accepting a USD $332,000 commission while serving as the Sri Lankan Ambassador to
Mexico ambassador resigns after book theft allegation. [SEP] Ten Tragic Days // Wilson told Pedro Lascuráin, Madero's minister of foreign relations, that Madero ought to resign; as reported to Sec. Knox. Ambassador Wilson's language became: "Public opinion, both Mexican and foreign, holds the Federal Government responsible for these conditions." On February 15, Ambassador Wilson requested the British, German and Spanish ministers to come to the embassy. He did not invite the other members of the diplomatic corps. He reports to Secretary Knox: "The opinion of my assembled colleagues was unanimous." The Spanish minister was designated to visit the National Palace and inform the President of this unanimous opinion—which was, that he should
Mexico ambassador resigns after book theft allegation. [SEP] Aurora Bretón // eat at the hotel while she sexually harassed his daughter. A year later, on October 2005, Bretón was caught by immigration authorities of the United States while trying to secure travel visas for two deli vendors and a friend of her own daughter by presenting them as official coaches of the Mexican archery team. The United States Embassy in Mexico City intervened and she was charged with visa fraud and banned from visiting the country for ninety-nine years. Following the incident, she was asked to resign from all executive posts in both the federation and the Mexican Sports Confederation (Codeme).
Mexico ambassador resigns after book theft allegation. [SEP] Diplomatic immunity // On 24 April 2008, in New Orleans, Mexican press attaché Rafael Quintero Curiel was seen stealing BlackBerry PDA units from a White House press meeting room. Quintero made it all the way to the airport before members of the United States Secret Service caught up with him. He initially denied taking the devices, but after being confronted with security video, Quintero claimed it was purely accidental, gave the devices back, claimed diplomatic immunity and left New Orleans with the Mexican delegation. He was eventually fired for the incident. The following chart outlines the immunities afforded to foreign diplomatic personnel residing
Chicago residents use kits to test for lead contamination. [SEP] Kenosha/Racine Lead-Free Communities Partnership // from surfaces such as floors and window sills. The samples are then tested by a laboratory that participates in the Environmental Protection Agency's National Lead Laboratory Accreditation Program (NLLAP). Readings from the walls and other surfaces are collected on site with an X-ray fluorescence (XRF) device and are analyzed later. The XRF device allows the program to detect lead in coatings even if it has since been painted over. If lead hazards are found to be present in the home then the home moves into the abatement process. Once the lead and safety hazards of the home have been assessed,
Chicago residents use kits to test for lead contamination. [SEP] Lead contamination in Washington, D.C. drinking water // chemistry, Edwards used a field meter to test for lead in one home's water. The meter could read values up to 140 ppb. His initial reading pegged the meter, so he diluted the sample to ten percent of its original strength. Even so, diluted, the sample still pegged the meter, indicating the water contained at least 1,250 ppb of lead. "Some of it would literally have to be classified as a hazardous waste," Edwards said. After Seema Bhat, a water quality manager at WASA, told her superiors at the agency and at the EPA about the lead levels and warned
Chicago residents use kits to test for lead contamination. [SEP] H. Kramer and Company // H. Kramer and Company H. Kramer and Company is a brass smelting company located in the Pilsen neighborhood of Chicago, Illinois, United States. The company has come under pressure from local neighborhood residents and the Illinois EPA for lead pollution. In the March 2005, Pilsen residents began sampling the soil and found elevated levels of lead around the H. Kramer facility. EPA tests in June 2005 found lead on site at levels from 1,250 to 65,000 parts per million, and from 120 to 2,500 parts per million off site; with the highest levels more than twice the allowable level set
Chicago residents use kits to test for lead contamination. [SEP] Lead poisoning // cheaper methods include running water in the morning to flush out the most contaminated water, or adjusting the water's chemistry to prevent corrosion of pipes. Lead testing kits are commercially available for detecting the presence of lead in the household. As hot water is more likely than cold water to contain higher amounts of lead, use only cold water from the tap for drinking, cooking, and for making baby formula. Since most of the lead in household water usually comes from plumbing in the house and not from the local water supply, using cold water can avoid lead exposure. Measures
Chicago residents use kits to test for lead contamination. [SEP] Flint water crisis // homes had registered lead at acceptable levels." The documents falsely claimed that the city had tested tap water from homes with lead service lines, and therefore the highest lead-poisoning risks; in reality, the city does not know the locations of lead service lines, which city officials acknowledged in November 2015 after the "Flint Journal"/MLive published an article revealing the practice, using documents obtained under the Michigan Freedom of Information Act. The "Journal"/MLive reported that the city had "disregarded federal rules requiring it to seek out homes with lead plumbing for testing, potentially leading the city and state to underestimate for
Chicago residents use kits to test for lead contamination. [SEP] Lead contamination in Washington, D.C. drinking water // incomplete". The underreported results came from the city's health department, which had said the missing tests were omitted because some labs did not report low lead levels to the city. The health department data was also the basis for Guidotti's paper. The investigation found that the CDC knowingly used flawed data in drafting the report, leading to "scientifically indefensible" claims in the 2004 paper. It also cited the CDC for failing to publicize later research showing that the harm was more serious than the 2004 report suggested. After the investigation's findings were released, the CDC initially stood by the report's
Chicago residents use kits to test for lead contamination. [SEP] Lead abatement in the United States // the Lead and Copper Rule's regulations. An additional 33 cities around the US have been investigated for violating EPA guidance when it comes to properly testing their water systems for lead contamination. The results of analyzing documents found that correspond to the recent water testing operations in these cities show that 23 cities were instructed to run water slowly, which reduces the amount of lead dislodged from the pipes. 7 cities were instructed to remove aerators from spouts before water was ran, which reduces lead content. 21 cities were instructed to "pre-flush" before testing done by the EPA, which influences
Chicago residents use kits to test for lead contamination. [SEP] Lead contamination in Washington, D.C. drinking water // that as many as 20 states had not provided any data. On October 5, 2004, the "Washington Post" ran a front-page article reporting that cities across the United States were illegally manipulating lead testing results, such as discarding high readings or avoiding homes likely to have high readings. A former EPA official described it as "widespread fraud and manipulation" on the part of water utilities. That July, however, an EPA administrator told Congress that "we have not identified a systemic problem". Using data from the EPA, the "Post" identified 274 utilities that had reported unsafe lead levels between 2000 and
Chicago residents use kits to test for lead contamination. [SEP] Lead contamination in Washington, D.C. drinking water // that no children with dangerously high blood lead levels were found, even in the homes with the worst lead levels. Officials in other cities, such as New York City and Seattle, cited the report as justification for a less-than-aggressive response to high lead levels in their own water. Water testing in the first six months of 2004 showed 90 percent of homes having 63 ppb of lead or less in the water. In October 2004, Edwards co-authored an article in the "Journal of the American Water Works Association" that linked chloramine use with greatly increased lead leaching. A report commissioned
Chicago residents use kits to test for lead contamination. [SEP] Flint water crisis // begin using reverse 911 to advise homebound residents on how to get help. On January 10, Mayor Weaver stressed to residents that it was important to also pick up the testing kits, as the city would like to receive at least 500 water test samples per week. On January 12, officers from the Michigan State Police and Genesee County Sheriff's Department started delivering cases of water, water filters, lead testing kits and replacement cartridges to residents who needed them. The American Red Cross has also been deployed to Flint to deliver bottled water and filters to residents. On January 14,
Spain overtakes Italy in coronavirus cases, death rate slows. [SEP] Coronavirus // 2013, a case of contamination from human to human in France was confirmed by the French Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. In addition, cases of person-to-person transmission have been reported by the Ministry of Health in Tunisia. Two confirmed cases seem to have caught the disease from their late father, who became ill after a visit to Qatar and Saudi Arabia. By Oct. 30 2013, there were 124 cases and 52 deaths in Saudi Arabia. After the Dutch Erasmus Medical Centre sequenced the virus, the virus was given a new name, Human Corona Virus-Erasmus Medical Centre (HCoV-EMC). The final
Spain overtakes Italy in coronavirus cases, death rate slows. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // United Kingdom, France, Germany, and the United Arab Emirates. According to a European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) publication, on April 2014, Tunisia had a total of 3 cases with 1 fatality. In May 2015, the first case in South Korea was confirmed in a man who had visited several Middle Eastern countries. As of 16 June 2015, a total of 150 cases has been infected, including 18 deaths, according to the World Health Organization (WHO). As of 29 June 2015, 32 people in South Korea have died from this outbreak, with 182 confirmed cases of infection. There
Spain overtakes Italy in coronavirus cases, death rate slows. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // government, in November 2013, reported a woman in Spain, who had recently traveled to Saudi Arabia for the Islamic pilgrimage, contracted the disease. On 14 April 2014, one Filipino paramedic died in the United Arab Emirates, with six other reported to be infected with the virus. On 17 April, the UAE Ministry of Health reported another fatality and four additional cases, including the Filipino medical worker who travelled to the Philippines on 16 April. On 21 April 2014, the Health Ministry of UAE reported an additional 9 cases. In April 2012, six hospital workers were diagnosed with acute respiratory failure
Spain overtakes Italy in coronavirus cases, death rate slows. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // MERS had infected at least 60 people with cases reported in Jordan, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates (UAE), Tunisia, Germany, the United Kingdom (UK), France and Italy, with a death toll of 38. Saudi officials expressed great concern that millions of Muslims from around the world would potentially be exposed to the virus during the autumn Hajj, or pilgrimage to Mecca. In May 2014, the WHO said it was monitoring the situation as global cases of MERS appeared to be on the rise, but said the situation did not yet constitute a health emergency. On 3 June 2014,
Spain overtakes Italy in coronavirus cases, death rate slows. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // the same room as the first patient was confirmed by French Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. France reported its first death from MERS near the end of May 2013. On 28 May 2013, a report by the Associated Press said a French patient died of the novel coronavirus related to SARS. Fifty percent of those infected have died. On 20 April 2014, Greece reported its first MERS-CoV case. The infected individual was a 69-year-old Greek male who had returned to Greece on April 17 from Saudi Arabia. People with close contact with the infected man were identified and are
Spain overtakes Italy in coronavirus cases, death rate slows. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // and from that family at least one additional person presented similar symptoms but tested negative for the novel coronavirus. On 21 February 2013, WHO stated that there had been 13 laboratory-confirmed cases, 6 cases (4 fatal) from Saudi Arabia, 2 cases (both fatal) from Jordan, 2 cases from Qatar, and 3 from the UK. In March 2013, the Saudi Arabia Ministry of Health reported the death of a 39-year-old man, the 15th case and 9th death reported to WHO. On 2 May 2013, the Saudi Ministry of Health announced five people died and two other people were in critical condition
Spain overtakes Italy in coronavirus cases, death rate slows. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // Saudi Arabia. In the latest cluster of infections, 15 cases had been confirmed, and nine of those patients had died. Ten of the 22 people who died and 22 of 44 cases reported were in Saudi Arabia. An unconfirmed case in another Saudi citizen, for which no clinical information was available, was also reported around this time. On 22 September 2012, the Saudi Ministry of Health (MOH) announced that the two cases involving Saudi citizens, caused by what they termed a "rare pattern of coronavirus," had both proven fatal. Two of the Saudi Arabia cases were from the same family
Spain overtakes Italy in coronavirus cases, death rate slows. [SEP] Triangle of death (Italy) // publication. An estimated 550,000 people live in this area. The annual death rate per 100,000 inhabitants from liver cancer is close to 34.5 for men and 20.8 for women, as compared to the national average of 14. The death rate for bladder cancer and cancer of the central nervous system is higher than in other European countries, although by a more modest increment. Campania, overall, has a lower-than-average cancer mortality rate than Italy. The high death rate is due to illegal and improper hazardous waste disposal from various outside and Italian government censored sources and transported by various organized crime
Spain overtakes Italy in coronavirus cases, death rate slows. [SEP] Thalassemia // rate 70%, rejection 23%, and mortality 7%. The best results are with very young people. The beta form of thalassemia is particularly prevalent among Mediterranean peoples, and this geographical association is responsible for its original name. Thalassemia resulted in 25,000 deaths in 2013 down from 36,000 deaths in 1990. In Europe, the highest concentrations of the disease are found in Greece, coastal regions in Turkey (particularly the Aegean Region such as Izmir, Balikesir, Aydin, Mugla, and Mediterranean Region such as Antalya, Adana, Mersin), in parts of Italy, particularly southern Italy and the lower Po valley. The major Mediterranean islands (except
Spain overtakes Italy in coronavirus cases, death rate slows. [SEP] Health in Italy // 8.3 and 6.7. In 2015 Liguria had the highest cancer mortality of any region in Europe, at 377 per 100,000 population. The Italian vaccination system is complex because services and decisions are delivered by 21 separate regional authorities creates many variations. There is a National committee on immunizations that updates the national recommended immunization schedule, with input from the ministry of health representatives, regional health authorities, national institute of health, and other scientific societies. Regions may add more scheduled vaccinations, but cannot exempt citizens from nationally mandated or recommended ones. A nationwide plan for eliminating measles and rubella began in
Brazil's mothers left to raise microcephaly babies alone. [SEP] Celina Turchi // in pregnant women would have influence on the foetus' lack of cranial development. Celina Turchi Celina Maria Turchi Martelli is a Brazilian epidemiologist, graduated by Federal University of Goiás and researcher at Fundação Oswaldo Cruz in Recife. She first associated the link between zika virus and microcephaly in newborn babies during the 2015 disease outbreak in Brazil; she was listed by "Nature" magazine as one of the 10 most notable people in science in 2016, and by "Time" magazine as one of the 100 most influential people of 2017. Turchi was born in the state of Goiás. She did her
Brazil's mothers left to raise microcephaly babies alone. [SEP] Zika fever // 2016 that the Brazilian Ministry of Health had confirmed 134 cases of microcephaly "believed to be associated with Zika virus infection" with an additional 2,165 cases in 549 counties in 20 states remaining under investigation. An analysis of 574 cases of microcephaly in Brazil during 2015 and the first week of 2016, reported in March 2016, found an association with maternal illness involving rash and fever during the first trimester of pregnancy. During this period, 12 Brazilian states reported increases of at least 3 standard deviations (SDs) in cases of microcephaly compared with 2000–14, with the northeastern states of Bahia,
Brazil's mothers left to raise microcephaly babies alone. [SEP] Zika fever // more than 27 countries and territories. Following the initial Zika outbreak in Northeastern Brazil in May 2015, physicians observed a very large surge of reports of infants born with microcephaly, with 20 times the number of expected cases. Many of these cases have since been confirmed, leading WHO officials to project that approximately 2,500 infants will be found to have born in Brazil with Zika-related microcephaly. Proving that Zika causes these effects is difficult and complex for several reasons. For example, the effects on an infant might not be seen until months after the mother's initial infection, long after the
Brazil's mothers left to raise microcephaly babies alone. [SEP] Celina Turchi // in infectology at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine and her doctorate at the University of São Paulo. She became interested in research mosquito-borne diseases in 1990, when dengue fever was spread in Goiânia. She was professor at UFG until her retirement. In 2015 Turchi was called by the Brazilian Ministry of Health to investigate the growth of microcephaly cases in newborn babies at the state of Pernambuco. At Fiocruz's Aggeu Magalhães Institute, in Recife, she directed the Microcephaly Epidemic Research Group (MERG), a task force for defining the malformation causes. Her group found that zika virus incubated
Brazil's mothers left to raise microcephaly babies alone. [SEP] Celina Turchi // Celina Turchi Celina Maria Turchi Martelli is a Brazilian epidemiologist, graduated by Federal University of Goiás and researcher at Fundação Oswaldo Cruz in Recife. She first associated the link between zika virus and microcephaly in newborn babies during the 2015 disease outbreak in Brazil; she was listed by "Nature" magazine as one of the 10 most notable people in science in 2016, and by "Time" magazine as one of the 100 most influential people of 2017. Turchi was born in the state of Goiás. She did her graduation in medicine at the Federal University of Goias and her master's degree
Brazil's mothers left to raise microcephaly babies alone. [SEP] Zika fever // Paraíba and Pernambuco reporting increases of more than 20 SDs. In January 2016, a baby in Oahu, Hawaii, was born with microcephaly, the first case in the United States of brain damage linked to the virus. The baby and mother tested positive for a past Zika virus infection. The mother, who had probably acquired the virus while traveling in Brazil in May 2015 during the early stages of her pregnancy, had reported her bout of Zika. She recovered before relocating to Hawaii. Her pregnancy had progressed normally, and the baby's condition was not known until birth. In February 2016, ocular
Brazil's mothers left to raise microcephaly babies alone. [SEP] 2015–16 Zika virus epidemic // 30, Thailand confirmed that two babies has born with microcephaly. Prior to the case, Thailand has allowed abortion for pregnant women that have been affected by birth defects. Malaysia is still undecided on the issue, with doctors there letting the mother make the decision whether or not to abort. Rentokil, a Malaysian pest company, has designed an Integrated Mosquito Management (IMM) program to curb the spread of Aedes mosquito. On October 17, Zika was declared as endemic in Vietnam by the country Health Ministry due to the number of local cases. Vietnam confirmed that one baby has born with microcephaly
Brazil's mothers left to raise microcephaly babies alone. [SEP] Pyriproxyfen // of pyriproxyfen by the World Health Organization since 2004 and the United States Environmental Protection Agency since 2001. George Dimech, the director of Disease Control and Diseases of the Health Department of Pernambuco in Brazil, gave an interview to the BBC where he pointed out that the city of Recife has the current highest reported amount of cases of microcephaly, yet pyriproxyfen is not used in the region, but another insecticide altogether. He added that "this lack of spatial correlation weakens the idea that the larvicide is the cause of the problem." In addition, the BBC interviewed researchers in Pernambuco,
Brazil's mothers left to raise microcephaly babies alone. [SEP] Baby hatch // mothers could give up their child anonymously but could also receive advice. The "tours d'abandon" were officially abolished in a law of June 27, 1904. Today in France, women are allowed to give birth anonymously in hospitals ("accouchement sous X") and leave their baby there. In Brazil and Portugal, foundling wheels ("roda dos expostos/enjeitados", literally "wheel for exposed/rejected ones") were also used after Queen Mary I proclaimed on May 24, 1783, that all towns should have a foundling hospital. One example was the wheel installed at the "Santa Casa de Misericordia" hospital in São Paulo on July 2, 1825. This
Brazil's mothers left to raise microcephaly babies alone. [SEP] Zika fever // disorders in newborns have been linked to Zika virus infection. In one study in Pernambuco state in Brazil, about 40 percent of babies with Zika-related microcephaly also had scarring of the retina with spots, or pigment alteration. On 20 February 2016, Brazilian scientists announced that they had successfully sequenced the Zika virus genome, and expressed hope that this would help in both developing a vaccine and in determining the nature of any link to birth defects. Also in February 2016, rumors that microcephaly is caused by the use of the larvicide pyriproxyfen in drinking water were refuted by scientists. "It's
Ohio county to distribute bags that deactivate drugs. [SEP] Mike DeWine // year in office, DeWine had worked to close all 12 pill mills in Scioto County, considered by many to have been the national center of the prescription drug crisis. DeWine's efforts also led to more than 100 doctors and pharmacists losing their licenses for improper prescription practices. In 2013, DeWine formed a new Heroin Unit to provide Ohio communities with law enforcement, legal, and outreach assistance to combat the state’s heroin problem. The Heroin Unit draws from new and existing office resources, including: BCI investigative and laboratory services, Ohio Organized Crime Investigations Commission assistance, prosecutorial support, and outreach and education
Ohio county to distribute bags that deactivate drugs. [SEP] Portsmouth, Ohio // in prison. In 2011 the DEA and state and local law enforcement agencies worked to crack down on this problem. On May 17, 2011 the DEA served Immediate Suspension Orders (suspension of their license to practice medicine) on four local doctors and a pharmacy in Scioto County, including Dr. Margy Temponeras. In a press release, the DEA said that Temponeras was one of the largest dispensers of controlled substances in the US. The DEA also served ISOs on three other doctors: John Temponeras, Mark Fantazuzzi, and Michael Dawes, and a pharmacy, Prime Pharmacy, located at 902 Fourth Street in Portsmouth.
Ohio county to distribute bags that deactivate drugs. [SEP] Portsmouth, Ohio // Pennsylvania, Virginia, and West Virginia). The crisis is blamed on the proliferation of cash-only pain clinics, known as "pill mills" by locals. According to authorities, there are eight such clinics in Scioto County alone, the largest concentration of such operations per capita in any of Ohio's counties. The clinics began opening in the late 1990s, after state legislators passed a law stating that doctors could not be prosecuted for prescribing painkillers as long as they had examined and documented that a patient was in intractable pain and needed the medication. The slightly more than half a dozen pain clinics dispense
Ohio county to distribute bags that deactivate drugs. [SEP] Quick response team // program in 2016; the city's fire chief, Paul Lolli, reported that 92% of users contacted by the unit had "been able to enter treatment," although he acknowledged that the program had not recorded the results experienced by those who entered treatment, rendering the program's efficacy unclear. In June, 2017, citing opiate addiction as his community's "No. 1 public safety issue," Boone County, Ky., Judge-Executive Gary Moore announced that county's launch of its own Colerain-inspired overdose response team. By July, 2017, several other Ohio communities — including Colerain-neighboring Green Township, the cities of Cincinnati, Cleveland, Hamilton, Mansfield, Oxford and Troy, and
Ohio county to distribute bags that deactivate drugs. [SEP] Portsmouth, Ohio // also notable for its football team, founded in 1929. It won two state championships in 1967 and 1970. Since the late 1990s and problems of unemployment, an epidemic of prescription drug abuse has swept the town and surrounding areas. It has caused a dramatic increase in Hepatitis C cases in the county, drug-related deaths, robberies, murder, and an increased incidence of children born addicted to prescription drugs. The most prevalent drug is OxyContin, a synthetic opiate originally developed as a cancer drug, known colloquially as "oxys" and "hillbilly heroin" (because of the drug's association with Appalachian areas of Kentucky, Ohio,
Ohio county to distribute bags that deactivate drugs. [SEP] Risa Vetri Ferman // offenders to highlight rehabilitative services. In addition, Ferman supports diversionary programs within Montgomery County such as Veteran’s Treatment Court, Drug Treatment Court and Behavioral Health Court. In April 2013, Ferman established the Montgomery County Prescription Drug Disposal Program which places safe receptacles for the public to safely dispose of their old or unwanted prescription drugs. Ferman spread awareness about Teen Prescription Drug Abuse through her involvement with the McIntyre Family and the death of their son Ronald "Ronnie" Powell III as a result of prescription drug overdose. The District Attorney's Office has maintained a 98% conviction rate. In October 2014,
Ohio county to distribute bags that deactivate drugs. [SEP] Portsmouth, Ohio // create an underground economy supporting the distribution of illegal substances. As of spring 2011, the county has had more than 120 drug-related deaths over the preceding decade, and in 2009 had the second-highest death rate in the state from accidental drug overdoses, although it is sparsely populated compared to the urban population centers of the state. According to Lisa Roberts, a registered nurse with the Portsmouth City Health Department, Southern Ohio distributes four times as many prescription drugs as Northern Ohio, contributing to the high death rates. Local deaths from a lethal drug combination of opiates, sedatives and muscle relaxants
Ohio county to distribute bags that deactivate drugs. [SEP] Portsmouth, Ohio // are so common that locals have dubbed it the "Portsmouth Cocktail". Admissions into rehab facilities for painkiller addictions in the town are five times the national average. Almost one in 10 infants born in Scioto County in recent years has been addicted to prescription drugs. Because of the extent of the problem, the Drug Enforcement Administration has listed Scioto County on its watch list of the 10 most significant places in the country for trafficking in prescription drugs. In February 2011 NBC Universal had a film crew in the city filming for the cable TV show "Intervention". On April 11,
Ohio county to distribute bags that deactivate drugs. [SEP] Quick response team // Ross County, Ohio, and its seat, Chillicothe, had launched their joint, multi-agency Post-Overdose Response Team (PORT), based on Colerain's QRT. In August, 2016, Oxford, Ohio, in Butler County, had "loosely" formed a QRT. By September, 2016, another Cincinnati suburb, Norwood, had developed and deployed a Colerain-model QRT. In January, 2017, the Funders' Response to the Heroin Epidemic — a Greater Cincinnati-based, private funding collaboration operated by InterAct for Change, a nonprofit subsidiary of Interact for Health — awarded both Colerain Township and Clermont County, Ohio, $100,000 grants to support (respectively) their QRT operational and development efforts. Both grants were to
Ohio county to distribute bags that deactivate drugs. [SEP] Quick response team // Council of Greater Cincinnati. The QRT program included a "360 Solution" component, under which all Colerain patrol officers were equipped with nasal-delivery naloxone (Narcan), provided by the Ohio Department of Health and Hamilton County Public Health. Additionally, the police department canvassed the community several times door-to-door, delivering brochures that informed citizens about the township's efforts to respond to the opioid epidemic. Colerain's QRT members were trained to use "motivational interviewing" principles — expression of empathy to build rapport with the opiate user, helping the user to elicit the pros and cons of entering treatment, respecting the user's right to choose,
A nurse employed in a Zambian hospital swapped nearly 5,000 babies at birth and gave them to the "wrong" parents. [SEP] Maternal and child health in Tanzania // and the ratio of nurses to patients is 1:23,000. While the ratio in the United States is 1:300. President Jakaya Kikwete on May 2014 appealed to health workers in Tanzania to ensure that lives of women and children are not at risk during delivery. In Tanzania, two thirds of women give birth in their own homes, because there are very few health facilities within reach that can provide life-saving emergency services. Every year in Africa, at least 125,000 women and 870,000 newborns die in the first week after birth, yet this is when coverage and programmes are at their lowest
A nurse employed in a Zambian hospital swapped nearly 5,000 babies at birth and gave them to the "wrong" parents. [SEP] Florida Hospital Wauchula // Mays were born within days of each other and were switched and sent home with the wrong parents. Relatives of one of the mothers were prominent in the opening of Hardee Memorial. One was involved in the building and financing of the hospital and another was on the hospital board of trustees. The baby swap was discovered ten years later, when one baby died of a congenital heart defect and laboratory testing showed the baby was not related to her parents. In 1992 author Loretta Schwartz-Nobel published a book about the incident. The book, "The Baby Swap Conspiracy", also inspired
A nurse employed in a Zambian hospital swapped nearly 5,000 babies at birth and gave them to the "wrong" parents. [SEP] Childbirth in Zambia // always employed, unless the birth attendants have been trained to do so. These traditions may lead to hypothermia and delayed breast feeding. In hospitals and maternity centers specifically, the mothers were not encouraged to have skin to skin contact immediately following the birth of their child, nor were they encouraged to breastfeed. Due to the high maternal mortality rate of 224 deaths per 100,000 live births, many newborns are left without a mother and may therefore be orphaned and sent to an orphanage. Contributing to the high maternal mortality is access to care for mothers in need. Zambia has only
A nurse employed in a Zambian hospital swapped nearly 5,000 babies at birth and gave them to the "wrong" parents. [SEP] Demographics of Singapore // most popular hospital to have children—saw over 100 deliveries per day in 1962. In 1966, KKH delivered 39835 babies, earning it a place in the Guinness Book of World Records for "largest number of births in a single maternity facility" for ten years. Because there was generally a massive shortage of beds in that era, mothers with routine deliveries were discharged from hospitals within 24 hours. In September 1965 the Minister for Health, Yong Nyuk Lin, submitted a white paper to Parliament, recommending a "Five-year Mass Family Planning programme" that would reduce the birth rate to 20.0 per thousand individuals
A nurse employed in a Zambian hospital swapped nearly 5,000 babies at birth and gave them to the "wrong" parents. [SEP] Zephany Nurse // of interviews, many of the times when other kidnappings have occurred, always offering support to the affected families. In at least two instances the Nurse family were given hope that their daughter would be returned home. One woman, whose neighbors had not noticed her pregnancy, was investigated by the police, however while the child closely resembled the missing Zephany, it was a boy. In another instance, after almost 12 years of no news, in July 2009 the Nurses received a phone call in which a woman whispered, "I know about your daughter," and asked for 500,000 South African Rand (approx
A nurse employed in a Zambian hospital swapped nearly 5,000 babies at birth and gave them to the "wrong" parents. [SEP] Childbirth in Zambia // outside the unit. Should a mother be able to labor at home most of the power still belongs to them throughout the whole process. Furthermore, women who give birth in a medical center are subjected to more of the “coercive obstetric procedures” these include birthing positions that are convenient for the health care provider but not the laboring women. 53% of births occur in the home. The majority of the rest of the birth occur in maternity centers and hospitals. There seems to be a divide between those who gave birth in health care centers as opposed to those who
A nurse employed in a Zambian hospital swapped nearly 5,000 babies at birth and gave them to the "wrong" parents. [SEP] Amelia Dyer // these young women and care for them until they gave birth. The mothers subsequently left their unwanted babies to be looked after as "nurse children". The predicament of the parents involved was often exploited for financial gain: if a baby had well-off parents who were simply anxious to keep the birth secret, the single fee might be as much as £80. £50 might be negotiated if the father of the child wanted to hush up his involvement. However, it was more common for these expectant young women to be impoverished. Such women would be charged about £5. Unscrupulous carers resorted
A nurse employed in a Zambian hospital swapped nearly 5,000 babies at birth and gave them to the "wrong" parents. [SEP] Population planning in Singapore // a baby was born every 11 minutes in 1965; Kandang Kerbau Hospital (KKH) – a women's hospital where most babies in Singapore were delivered – saw over 100 deliveries per day in 1962. In 1966, KKH delivered 39,835 babies, earning it a place in the Guinness Book of World Records for "largest number of births in a single maternity facility" each year for ten years. Because there was generally a massive shortage of beds in that era, mothers with routine deliveries were discharged from hospitals within 24 hours. In 1959, the People's Action Party came to power, and in September
A nurse employed in a Zambian hospital swapped nearly 5,000 babies at birth and gave them to the "wrong" parents. [SEP] Birth tourism in Hong Kong // legal (e.g. births through reservation) or illegal (e.g. A&E births) ways. The large influx of visiting Mainland pregnant women causes a shortage of hospital resources, resulting in much criticism of visiting pregnant women and their anchor children, including labelling them as "locusts". Over 170,000 new births were anchor babies between 2001 and 2011 in which 32,653 were born in 2010. CY Leung's first public announcement on policy as Chief Executive-elect was to impose a 'zero' quota on mainland mothers giving birth in Hong Kong. Leung further underlined that those who did may not be able to secure the right of
A nurse employed in a Zambian hospital swapped nearly 5,000 babies at birth and gave them to the "wrong" parents. [SEP] Madwaleni Hospital // two junior doctors remaining, which wasn't nearly enough to handle the hospital's large number of patients, where about 1800 births occur every year in the labour ward. Dr. Richard Cooke, who was a former doctor at the Madwaleni Hospital, is quoted as saying that at the very least, 6 or 7 doctors are needed to run the hospital. Responsible for this shortage of doctors at the hospital is a delay in registering foreign doctors who are qualified for the available positions, as well as the failure to hire community service doctors. The Eastern Cape health department head, Dr. Siva Pillay,
Alabama Sen. Doug Jones calls new abortion ban ‘shameful’. [SEP] Doug Jones (politician) // pro-choice on the issue of abortion, but in 2017 was endorsed by the Campaign for Working Families, which is a pro-life PAC. In 2018, Planned Parenthood, which is pro-choice, gave Jones a 100% rating while the anti-abortion National Right to Life Committee gave him a 0% rating. Jones voted against the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act, which prohibits abortion after 20 weeks, except in cases of rape, incest and danger to the pregnant woman's health. He also pledged to support Planned Parenthood as a Senator. Jones supports some gun control measures including "tighter background checks for gun sales and to
Alabama Sen. Doug Jones calls new abortion ban ‘shameful’. [SEP] Doug Jones (politician) // was one of five Democratic senators who voted for the continuing resolution that failed to pass and consequently led to the United States federal government shutdown of 2018. According to Morning Consult, which polls approval ratings of senators, Jones sits with a 45% approval rating, with 28% disapproving. This is close to Jones' fellow senator, Republican Richard Shelby, who sits with a 48% approval rating, with 30% disapproving. The editorial board of "The Birmingham News" has described Jones as a "moderate Democrat". Former Alabama Democratic Party chair Giles Perkins described Jones as "a moderate, middle-of-the-road guy". Describing his own views,
Alabama Sen. Doug Jones calls new abortion ban ‘shameful’. [SEP] Doug Jones (politician) // Justice Roy Moore. Jones was considered a longshot candidate in a deeply Republican state. A month prior to the special election, Moore was alleged to have sexually assaulted and otherwise acted inappropriately with several women, including some who were minors at the time. Jones narrowly won the special election, 50%–48%. He is up for reelection in 2020. Jones is the first Democrat to win statewide office in Alabama since Lucy Baxley was elected President of the Alabama Public Service Commission in 2008. Democrats had not represented Alabama in the U.S. Senate since 1997, when Howell Heflin left office. Richard Shelby
Alabama Sen. Doug Jones calls new abortion ban ‘shameful’. [SEP] Doug Jones (politician) // Alabama's local economy, particularly in the areas around NASA's Marshall Space Flight Center and the U.S. Army's Redstone Arsenal, and would protect the United States from foreign threats. Jones voted in favor of Mike Pompeo's confirmation as Secretary of State, joining with Republicans and five other Democratic Senators. However, he opposed Gina Haspel's nomination to be CIA director. Jones has been described as an economic populist by "Newsweek". Jones was one of five Democrats who voted for the Republican budget deal in January 2018. He also was one of 17 Democrats to break with the majority of their party and
Alabama Sen. Doug Jones calls new abortion ban ‘shameful’. [SEP] Doug Jones (politician) // Doug Jones (politician) Gordon Douglas Jones (born May 4, 1954) is an American attorney, former prosecutor and politician serving as the junior United States Senator from Alabama since 2018. A member of the Democratic Party, he previously was a United States Attorney for the Northern District of Alabama from 1997 to 2001. Jones was born in Fairfield, Alabama and is a graduate of the University of Alabama and Cumberland School of Law at Samford University. After graduating law school, he worked as a congressional staffer and then as a federal prosecutor before moving to private practice. In 1997, Jones was
Alabama Sen. Doug Jones calls new abortion ban ‘shameful’. [SEP] Rick Womick // of Tennessee. He is Vice-Chair of the House Civil Justice Committee, and a member of the House Consumer and Human Resources Committee and the House Civil Justice Subcommittee. He has made anti-Muslim remarks, suggesting all Muslims serving in the United States Army should be removed. In November 2014, Womick introduced HB002, a bill that would require abortion providers to show a woman an ultrasound image of her fetus. If the woman declines to do so, the provider would be required to verbally describe the fetus, let the woman hear the heartbeat and provide the woman with an image of the
Alabama Sen. Doug Jones calls new abortion ban ‘shameful’. [SEP] Abortion in Oklahoma // Act, which would have approved government mandated signage in public women's restrooms across the state, was revised only to require additional signage in abortion clinics. State Rep. Justin Humphrey proposed legislation that would require a pregnant woman to ask her sexual partner for permission to access abortion care. State Rep. George Faught authored legislation to ban abortion in the event of fetal genetic abnormalities, without exceptions for rape or incest. Faught defended the bill, saying, in reference to rape and incest, “God can bring beauty from ashes.” His comments drew further criticism from opponents in the Oklahoma House. In December
Alabama Sen. Doug Jones calls new abortion ban ‘shameful’. [SEP] Robert Aderholt // stop abortions in the United States, while compassionately educating on this important issue." Aderholt is a signer of Americans for Tax Reform's Taxpayer Protection Pledge. He voted in favor of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017. Aderholt said he voted for the bill "to give back more money to Alabama taxpayers." He also stated that the bill "does the right thing." He cited the raising of the child tax credit, changes to the state and local tax deductions, and stated that "more than 80% the people in the 4th District of Alabama will receive a tax cut." Aderholt
Alabama Sen. Doug Jones calls new abortion ban ‘shameful’. [SEP] Doug Jones (politician) // a member of the Canterbury United Methodist Church in Mountain Brook for more than 33 years. Jones also serves on the Advisory Board of the Blackburn Institute, a leadership development and civic engagement program at The University of Alabama. Doug Jones (politician) Gordon Douglas Jones (born May 4, 1954) is an American attorney, former prosecutor and politician serving as the junior United States Senator from Alabama since 2018. A member of the Democratic Party, he previously was a United States Attorney for the Northern District of Alabama from 1997 to 2001. Jones was born in Fairfield, Alabama and is a
Alabama Sen. Doug Jones calls new abortion ban ‘shameful’. [SEP] Doug Jones (politician) // special election, running for the seat left open when Jeff Sessions was appointed as Attorney General. Sessions, a Republican, had held the Senate seat since being elected in 1996, when Democrat Howell Heflin chose not to run for re-election, and had kept it through three re-elections. Jones won the Democratic nomination in August, and became the Senator-elect for Alabama after defeating Republican former Alabama Supreme Court judge Roy Moore in the general election on December 12, 2017, which was also Jones' 25th wedding anniversary. Jones received 673,896 votes (50.0%) to Moore's 651,972 votes (48.3%) with 22,852 write-in votes (1.7%). After
Nurse’s kidney donation triggers bi-state transplant chain. [SEP] Kidney Paired Donation // Chains" that amplified the matching power of Domino Chains by allowing Bridge Donors to extend chains. Prior to the utilization of Bridge Donors, a chain of transplant surgeries would be completed in one day, which limited the number of transplants that could be performed. A bridge Donor is someone whose paired recipient has received a kidney but does not donate for some period of time (generally 1 week to 3 months). Just like Domino Chains increased KPD transplants, the utilization of bridge donors also dramatically increased KPD transplants because chains could now be organized over several months and avoid the
Nurse’s kidney donation triggers bi-state transplant chain. [SEP] Kidney Paired Donation // Paired Kidney Exchange (NEPKE) led by Dr. Delmonico and Professor Alvin Roth and the Ohio Organ Consortium which later reorganized as two competing programs, the Paired Donation Network (PDN) led by Dr. Woodle and the Alliance for Paired Exchange (APD) led by Dr. Rees. The Hopkins program, which was based out of the Johns Hopkins Hospital, led the industry in early innovations including the critical "Domino Chain" breakthrough which allowed Good Samaritan donors to start chains, dramatically increasing the number of pairs that could be matched in a swap compared to the loop approach that was used previously. Once the
Nurse’s kidney donation triggers bi-state transplant chain. [SEP] Kidney Paired Donation // Hopkins team began organizing Domino Chains, these swaps became larger and began attracting national media attention due to the massive complexity and significant impact of these large swaps. Unlike the Hopkins program that was hospital based, NEPKE was launched within the New England Organ Procurement Organization which served several states in the North East. The PDN and APD organizations were founded by transplant surgeons but attempted to create networks of transplant centers that would work together to pool their incompatible pairs, much like NEPKE but without OPO support. In 2006, the APD conceived of a critically important innovation called "NEAD
Nurse’s kidney donation triggers bi-state transplant chain. [SEP] Kidney transplantation // 3–5 days to reach normal functioning levels, while cadaveric donations stretch that interval to 7–15 days. Hospital stay is typically for 4–10 days. If complications arise, additional medications (diuretics) may be administered to help the kidney produce urine. Immunosuppressant drugs are used to suppress the immune system from rejecting the donor kidney. These medicines must be taken for the rest of the recipient's life. The most common medication regimen today is a mixture of tacrolimus, mycophenolate, and prednisolone. Some recipients may instead take ciclosporin, sirolimus, or azathioprine. The risk of early rejection of the transplanted kidney is increased if corticosteroids
Nurse’s kidney donation triggers bi-state transplant chain. [SEP] Kidney Paired Donation // the chain starts in the United States. As adoption of Advanced Donation increased, due to the timing advantages that made donation surgery more convenient for the donor, the size and complexity of KPD swaps were reduced, with the logical extension of this trend being the eventual elimination of traditional chain and loop swaps, replaced by 1-deep chains. The following academic publications highlight the most significant innovations and results in the field of KPD. Kidney Paired Donation Kidney Paired Donation (KPD) or Paired Exchange, is an approach to living donor kidney transplantation where patients with incompatible donors swap kidneys to receive
Nurse’s kidney donation triggers bi-state transplant chain. [SEP] National Kidney Registry // repeatedly go to the hospital for blood draws. The NKR’s second swap started with the shipment of a kidney from Cornell to UCLA School of Medicine. This was the first time a living donor kidney was shipped on a commercial airplane. This second chain crossed the country three times, facilitating eight total transplants at UCLA, Cornell, Stanford University School of Medicine, and California Pacific Medical Center Ultimately, this chain was broken when the bridge donor reneged. Based on these early experiences, many safe guards were implemented to reduce the risk of broken chains, which dropped the frequency of broken chains
Nurse’s kidney donation triggers bi-state transplant chain. [SEP] Kidney transplantation // in the patient's care in any manner until after death has been declared. In general, the donor and recipient should be ABO blood group and crossmatch (human leukocyte antigen — HLA) compatible. If a potential living donor is incompatible with their recipient, the donor could be exchanged for a compatible kidney. Kidney exchange, also known as "kidney paired donation" or "chains" have recently gained popularity. In an effort to reduce the risk of rejection during incompatible transplantation, ABO-incompatible and densensitization protocols utilizing intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG) have been developed, with the aim to reduce ABO and HLA antibodies that the recipient
Nurse’s kidney donation triggers bi-state transplant chain. [SEP] Kidney transplantation // recipient who also had a willing but incompatible donor. Michael Rees from the University of Toledo developed the concept of open-ended chains. This was a variation of a concept developed at Johns Hopkins University. On July 30, 2008, an altruistic donor kidney was shipped via commercial airline from Cornell to the University of California, Los Angeles, thus triggering a chain of transplants. The shipment of living donor kidneys, computer-matching software algorithms, and cooperation between transplant centers has enabled long-elaborate chains to be formed. In carefully screened kidney donors, survival and the risk of end-stage renal disease appear to be similar
Nurse’s kidney donation triggers bi-state transplant chain. [SEP] Kidney Paired Donation // logistical limitations of performing all surgeries on one day. In 2007, the APD completed the first NEAD chain. That same year, the U.S. Congress passed the Charlie Norwood Act which clarified that paired exchange was legal. Prior to the passage of this law, many in the U.S. transplant community feared that KPD was unlawful due to the prohibition of "valuable consideration" as articulated in the NOTA laws that govern the U.S. transplant industry. With the passage of the Charlie Norwood Act, many more KPD programs were launched in the USA including the UNOS KPD program which was government sponsored with
Nurse’s kidney donation triggers bi-state transplant chain. [SEP] National Kidney Registry // exchange programs in the United States, a compatible donor was found. After this transplant ordeal, the Hil family founded the National Kidney Registry to eliminate the problem of incompatible donors, by building a national kidney paired donation (KPD) program. The NKR organized its first swap on Valentine’s Day in 2008 at Cornell Medical Center in New York City. This first swap was a 3-deep chain that ended with a bridge donor who donated two months later, extending the chain to 5-deep. This chain was broken after the bridge donor reneged following many failed cross matches that required the donor to
Breast-cancer study questions lymph node removal [SEP] Breast cancer management // the lymph nodes in the axilla are also considered for removal. In the past, large axillary operations took out 10 to 40 nodes to establish whether cancer had spread. This had the unfortunate side effect of frequently causing lymphedema of the arm on the same side, as the removal of this many lymph nodes affected lymphatic drainage. More recently, the technique of sentinel lymph node (SLN) dissection has become popular, as it requires the removal of far fewer lymph nodes, resulting in fewer side effects while achieving the same 10-year survival as its predecessor. The sentinel lymph node is the
Breast-cancer study questions lymph node removal [SEP] Axillary lymph nodes // the nodes. For clinical stages I and II breast cancer, axillary lymph node dissection should only be performed after first attempting sentinel node biopsy. If cancer cells are found in the nodes it increases the risk of metastatic breast cancer. Another method of determining breast cancer spread is to perform an endoscopic axillary sentinel node biopsy. This involves injecting a dye into the breast lump and seeing which node it first spread to (the sentinel node). This node is then removed and examined. If there is no cancer present, it is assumed the cancer has not spread to the other
Breast-cancer study questions lymph node removal [SEP] Bernard Fisher (scientist) // the lymph nodes prior to metastatic spread and, therefore, required radical surgery to remove the entire breast, underlying chest muscle, and axillary lymph nodes to halt metastasis.” For over ten years, Fisher and his research team carried out “a multitude of investigations regarding the biology of tumor metastasis.” Their findings caused them to question the very theories upon which Halsted's approach had been based, and led them to formulate an alternative hypothesis. This was “that breast cancer was a systemic disease in that tumor cells were likely to have been disseminated throughout the body by the time of diagnosis and
Breast-cancer study questions lymph node removal [SEP] Breast cancer // tissue. One or more lymph nodes may be biopsied during the surgery; increasingly the lymph node sampling is performed by a sentinel lymph node biopsy. Standard surgeries include: Once the tumor has been removed, if the person desires, breast reconstruction surgery, a type of plastic surgery, may then be performed to improve the aesthetic appearance of the treated site. Alternatively, women use breast prostheses to simulate a breast under clothing, or choose a flat chest. Nipple prosthesis can be used at any time following the mastectomy. Drugs used after and in addition to surgery are called adjuvant therapy. Chemotherapy or
Breast-cancer study questions lymph node removal [SEP] Lumpectomy // very close to the margin. Sentinel lymph node biopsy (SLNB) or axillary lymph node dissection (ALND) may be used to determine if the cancer has progressed away from the breast and into other parts of the body. Sentinel lymph node biopsy is the analysis of a few removed sentinel nodes for the presence of cancerous cells. A radioactive substance is used to dye the sentinel nodes for easy identification and removal. If cancer is detected in the sentinel node then further treatment is needed. Axillary node dissection involves the excision of lymph nodes connected to the tumor by the armpit
Breast-cancer study questions lymph node removal [SEP] Lymphadenectomy // by Donald Morton and others. Cancer with various primary sites (breast, melanoma, colorectal, etc.) often metastasize early to the first drainage lymphatic basin. This process is predictable anatomically according to the primary site in the organ and the lymphatic channels. The first nodes (sentinel nodes) can be identified by particulate markers such as lymphazurin, methylene blue, India ink and radio-labelled colloid protein particles injected near the tumor site. The draining sentinel node can then be found by the surgeon and excised for verification by the pathologist if tumor cells are present, and often these tumor cells are few and only
Breast-cancer study questions lymph node removal [SEP] Lymphadenectomy // easily recognized by careful examination or by using techniques such as special stains, i.e. immunohistochemical. When the sentinel node is free of tumor cells, this is highly predictive of freedom from metastasis in the entire lymphatic basin, thus allowing a full node dissection to be avoided. The practice of sentinel lymph node mapping has changed the surgical approach in many cancer systems, sparing a formal lymph node dissection for patients with sentinel lymph node negative for tumor and directing a full node dissection for patients with sentinel lymph node positive for tumor metastases. For example in stage II breast carcinoma,
Breast-cancer study questions lymph node removal [SEP] Lumpectomy // therapy" was a real possibility. After a lumpectomy is performed for DCIS, local radiation therapy is typically performed to help eliminate microscopic-level disease. Axillary sentinel lymph node biopsy, as a method of screening for metastatic disease in otherwise non-invasive DCIS, is falling out of favor because the risks of procedure outweigh any effect on outcomes. For DCIS, chemotherapy is not recommended, but tamoxifen may be recommended for tumors which contain an abundance of estrogen receptors. For patients with invasive ductal carcinoma who have lumpectomies, lymph node biopsy and radiation therapy are usually recommended. Adjuvant chemotherapy is often recommended, but it
Breast-cancer study questions lymph node removal [SEP] Micrometastasis // Therefore, adjuvant chemotherapy and adjuvant radiation therapy are more effective to eliminate micrometastases, since they are aimed to target dividing and quiescent cells. Adjuvant therapies are administered after the removal of the lymph nodes. The significance of these therapies is to serve as a “clean up” method for those cells that have migrated elsewhere from the primary tumor. It is still in question by researchers whether this treatment method to rid the body of this small cluster of cells that may or may not progress is worth the side effects that it may cause. Side effects include fatigue, hair loss,
Breast-cancer study questions lymph node removal [SEP] Lymphadenectomy // differentiated thyroid cancer, breast cancer, lung cancer, gastric cancer and colorectal cancer. Famed British surgeon Berkeley Moynihan once remarked that "the surgery of cancer is not the surgery of organs; it is the surgery of the lymphatic system". The better-known examples of lymphadenectomy are "axillary lymph node dissection" for breast cancer; "radical neck dissection" for head and neck cancer and thyroid cancer; "D2 lymphadenectomy" for gastric cancer; and "total mesorectal excision" for rectal cancer. For clinical stages I and II breast cancer, axillary lymph node dissection should only be performed after first attempting sentinel node biopsy. Sentinel node biopsy can
Warnings that Mcafee or Norton has identified the most destructive computer virus ever disguised as a Hallmark postcard email with the subject line “A Card for You,” “Virtual Card for You,” “Postcard” or a “Postcard from Hallmark” have been circulating for years. [SEP] AMA Computer University // scheduled to complete his studies in 2000 and an academic subject called "Thesis A" was one of his final requirements before graduation. After commencement day on 3 May 2000, an e-mail trojan called "ILOVEYOU" spread internationally and caused delays in several online transactions. The ILOVEYOU virus unleashed a flood of e-mail that hit at least 45 million users in at least 20 countries according to one estimate. The virus started with "ILOVEYOU" in the subject line, but several variations appeared soon afterward, including one masquerading as an e-mail joke and another as a receipt for a Mother's Day gift. The
Warnings that Mcafee or Norton has identified the most destructive computer virus ever disguised as a Hallmark postcard email with the subject line “A Card for You,” “Virtual Card for You,” “Postcard” or a “Postcard from Hallmark” have been circulating for years. [SEP] Norton AntiVirus // November 2001 and by Ted Bridis of the Associated Press. The FBI intends to deploy Magic Lantern in the form of an e-mail attachment. When the attachment is opened, it installs a trojan horse on the suspect's computer, which is activated when the suspect uses PGP encryption, often used to increase the security of sent email messages. When activated, the trojan will log the PGP password, which allows the FBI to decrypt user communications. Symantec and other major antivirus vendors have whitelisted the Magic Lantern trojan, rendering their antivirus products, including Norton AntiVirus, incapable of detecting it. Concerns around this
Warnings that Mcafee or Norton has identified the most destructive computer virus ever disguised as a Hallmark postcard email with the subject line “A Card for You,” “Virtual Card for You,” “Postcard” or a “Postcard from Hallmark” have been circulating for years. [SEP] AMA Computer University // virus both replicates itself and steals the user names and passwords of unsuspecting victims. The e-mail replies from angry virus recipients to the creator passed through the United States e-mail address ""isp-adm@mail.com"", which then forwarded them to the two Access.Net (Philippine Internet Service Provider) e-mail accounts used by the virus creator - ""spyder@super.net.ph"" and ""mailme@super.net.ph"". According to Guinness World Records, the ILOVEYOU virus was the fastest-spreading computer worm until the release of Mydoom in 2004. The virus was traced to an apartment room in downtown Manila where De Guzman was residing. De Guzman was invited by the National Bureau of
Warnings that Mcafee or Norton has identified the most destructive computer virus ever disguised as a Hallmark postcard email with the subject line “A Card for You,” “Virtual Card for You,” “Postcard” or a “Postcard from Hallmark” have been circulating for years. [SEP] Computer fraud // instance as an important message from a colleague or friend. The virus was designed to send an infected email to the first 50 email addresses on the users’ Microsoft Outlook address book. Each infected computer would infect 50 additional computers, which in turn would infect another 50 computers. The virus proliferated rapidly and exponentially, resulting in substantial interruption and impairment of public communications and services. Many system administrators had to disconnect their computer systems from the Internet. Companies such as Microsoft, Intel, Lockheed Martin and Lucent Technologies were forced to shut down their email gateways due to the vast number
Warnings that Mcafee or Norton has identified the most destructive computer virus ever disguised as a Hallmark postcard email with the subject line “A Card for You,” “Virtual Card for You,” “Postcard” or a “Postcard from Hallmark” have been circulating for years. [SEP] Antivirus software // running. Norton AntiVirus had falsely identified three releases of Pegasus Mail as malware, and would delete the Pegasus Mail installer file when that happened. In response to this Pegasus Mail stated: In April 2010, McAfee VirusScan detected svchost.exe, a normal Windows binary, as a virus on machines running Windows XP with Service Pack 3, causing a reboot loop and loss of all network access. In December 2010, a faulty update on the AVG anti-virus suite damaged 64-bit versions of Windows 7, rendering it unable to boot, due to an endless boot loop created. In October 2011, Microsoft Security Essentials (MSE)
Warnings that Mcafee or Norton has identified the most destructive computer virus ever disguised as a Hallmark postcard email with the subject line “A Card for You,” “Virtual Card for You,” “Postcard” or a “Postcard from Hallmark” have been circulating for years. [SEP] ILOVEYOU // of the variations had to do with what file extensions were affected by the virus. Others simply modified the email subject in order to make it targeted towards a specific audience, like variant "Catolina" in Italian, or variant "BabyPic" for adults. Some others only modified the credits to the author, which were originally included in the standard version of the virus, removing them completely or referencing false authors. Some mail messages sent by ILOVEYOU: On 5 May 2000, two young Filipino computer programmers named Reonel Ramones and Onel de Guzman became targets of a criminal investigation by agents of the
Warnings that Mcafee or Norton has identified the most destructive computer virus ever disguised as a Hallmark postcard email with the subject line “A Card for You,” “Virtual Card for You,” “Postcard” or a “Postcard from Hallmark” have been circulating for years. [SEP] Norton AntiVirus // whitelisting include uncertainties about Magic Lantern's full surveillance potential and whether hackers could subvert it and redeploy it for purposes outside of law enforcement. Graham Cluley, a technology consultant from Sophos, said "We have no way of knowing if it was written by the FBI, and even if we did, we wouldn’t know whether it was being used by the FBI or if it had been commandeered by a third party". Another reaction came from Marc Maiffret, chief technology officer and co-founder of eEye Digital Security who states: "Our customers are paying us for a service, to protect them from
Warnings that Mcafee or Norton has identified the most destructive computer virus ever disguised as a Hallmark postcard email with the subject line “A Card for You,” “Virtual Card for You,” “Postcard” or a “Postcard from Hallmark” have been circulating for years. [SEP] E-card // customers to a third party. In late June 2007 a spate of emails with the subject line "You've received a postcard from a family member!" and other similar subjects, was seen making their way across the internet. Unfortunately most of these emails contained links to malicious web sites where JavaScript was used to exploit the browser in order to compromise a system, or contained a link to a malware file masquerading as an E-card. E-card An E-card is similar to a postcard or greeting card, with the primary difference being that it is created using digital media instead of paper
Warnings that Mcafee or Norton has identified the most destructive computer virus ever disguised as a Hallmark postcard email with the subject line “A Card for You,” “Virtual Card for You,” “Postcard” or a “Postcard from Hallmark” have been circulating for years. [SEP] Stoned (computer virus) // the screen and overwrites the master boot record. Angelina has stealth mechanisms. On hard disks, the original master boot record is moved to cylinder 0, head 0, sector 9. Angelina contains the following embedded text, not displayed by the virus: "Greetings from ANGELINA!!!/by Garfield/Zielona Gora" (Zielona Góra is a town in Poland). On May 15, 2014, the signature of the Stoned virus was inserted into the bitcoin blockchain. This caused Microsoft Security Essentials to recognize copies of the blockchain as the virus, prompting it to remove the file in question, and subsequently forcing the node to reload the block chain
Warnings that Mcafee or Norton has identified the most destructive computer virus ever disguised as a Hallmark postcard email with the subject line “A Card for You,” “Virtual Card for You,” “Postcard” or a “Postcard from Hallmark” have been circulating for years. [SEP] Goodtimes virus // appeared in the wake of Good Times. These messages were similar in form to Good Times, warning users not to open messages bearing particular subject lines. Subject lines mentioned in these emails include "Penpal greetings," "Free Money," "Deeyenda," "Invitation,", and "Win a Holiday." The Bad Times computer virus warning is generally considered to be a spoof of the Good Times warning. Developments in mail systems, such as Microsoft Outlook, without sufficient thought for security implications, made viruses that indeed propagate themselves via email possible. Notable examples include the Melissa worm, the ILOVEYOU virus, and the Anna Kournikova virus. In some
Georgia board starts work on medical marijuana rules . [SEP] Cannabis in Georgia (U.S. state) // R-Fairburn, even told the widow that he'd recently given a constituent taking chemotherapy a recipe for marijuana-laced chocolate-chip cookies. Georgia's program had effectively ended without ever supplying a single patient with the medical marijuana promised. Subsequent Georgia governors had the authority to reappoint the board, but never acted. As a result, the law has lingered on the books for the last 30 years. A measure to allow medical cannabis oil up to 5% tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) passed the Georgia House in February 2015. On April 16, 2015, the non-psychoactive form of marijuana oil (cannabidol oil or CBD oil) was legalized for
Georgia board starts work on medical marijuana rules . [SEP] Cannabis in Georgia (U.S. state) // medical use in the state under HB 1, the "Haleigh’s Hope Act". The bill was immediately enacted after being signed by the Governor, Nathan Deal. The original bill allowed possession of the oil for eight qualifying medical conditions but did not provide for cultivation or distribution within the state. A May 2017 expansion under SB 16 added six more conditions. In 2018, HB 65 added intractable pain and PTSD. Several attempts to expand access to medical cannabis by providing for in-state cultivation were met with resistance from politicians and ultimately failed. Medical cannabis was not without precedent in Georgia; the
Georgia board starts work on medical marijuana rules . [SEP] Cannabis in Georgia (U.S. state) // Cannabis in Georgia (U.S. state) Cannabis in Georgia is legal for limited medical uses in the form of CBD oil, but illegal for recreational use. In February 1980, a 50-0 Senate vote and a 156-8 House vote passed Mona Taft's bill supporting legal medical marijuana in Georgia for people diagnosed with glaucoma and cancer patients undergoing chemotherapy and radiation. Members from both parties came together to support Taft, including then-state Sen. Paul Broun. According to a Feb. 14, 1980, Knight-Ridder wire report about the bill, Broun hugged Taft when the legislation passed the Senate. The bill's sponsor, Rep. Virlyn Smith,
Georgia board starts work on medical marijuana rules . [SEP] Initiative 59 // District in 2013. Georgia Congressman Bob Barr advocated complete federal prohibition of medical marijuana. In 1998, he successfully blocked implementation of Initiative 59 – the "Legalization of Marijuana for Medical Treatment Initiative of 1998" – which would have legalized medical marijuana in Washington, D.C. The "Barr Amendment" to the 1999 Omnibus spending bill not only blocked implementation of Initiative 59, but also prohibited the vote tally from even being released. Nearly a year passed before a lawsuit filed by the American Civil Liberties Union eventually revealed the initiative had received 69 percent of the vote. In response to the judge's
Georgia board starts work on medical marijuana rules . [SEP] Mary Fallin // new emergency rules adopted by the Oklahoma Board of Health to prohibit the sale of marijuana in smokeable form and to require that a pharmacist be on-site at dispensaries during operating hours. These regulations angered marijuana activists, drawing bipartisan opposition in the state and fueling renewed calls for a special session of the legislature. After state Attorney General Michael J. Hunter determined that the adoption of the two rules exceeded the statutory authority of the Board of Health, Fallin urged the board to rescind the rules. Fallin criticized proponents of State Question 788 for their support of a ballot measure
Georgia board starts work on medical marijuana rules . [SEP] New Political Center — Girchi // or administrative sanction for consumption of marijuana. On July 30, 2018 the Constitutional Court of Georgia released a statement on the decision which was prompted by a lawsuit filed by leaders of the libertarian Girchi party, regarding the use of marijuana, effectively abolishing administrative punishment for the use of the drug. ""According to the applicants (Zurab Japaridze and Vakhtang Megrelishvili), the consumption of marijuana is not an act of social threat. In particular, it can only harm the users’ health, making that user him/herself responsible for the outcome. The responsibility for such actions does not cause dangerous consequences for the
Georgia board starts work on medical marijuana rules . [SEP] Cannabis in Georgia (country) // over 100 people are drug tested by Georgian police daily. Following the 2006 strengthening of the drug laws, Georgia collected $11.3 million in drug-related fines in the first year. Beginning in 2013 there were calls from various advocacy groups and opposition politicians to decriminalize cannabis, but the government remained opposed. In October 2015, the Constitutional Court of Georgia ruled that the norm of the country's Constitution about imprisonment for personal use of cannabis was "too strict" and needed to be relaxed. In December 2016, the Court further declared that imprisonment for use of small amounts of cannabis, as well as
Georgia board starts work on medical marijuana rules . [SEP] Cannabis in Georgia (country) // its purchase, retention, and production for personal use, was unconstitutional. On 30 July 2018, the Constitutional Court of Georgia ruled that "consumption of marijuana is an action protected by the right to free personality" and that "[Marijuana] can only harm the user's health, making that user him/herself responsible for the outcome. The responsibility for such actions does not cause dangerous consequences for the public." The ruling made legal the use and possession of cannabis in Georgia but kept in place penalties for cultivation and sale of the drug. Actions which also remain illegal include public consumption and use in the
Georgia board starts work on medical marijuana rules . [SEP] Cannabis in Georgia (U.S. state) // state had conducted legal cannabis trials on cancer patients in the 1970s. In the 1970s and 1980s, a number of county sheriffs and deputies were prosecuted for their involvement in the drug trade, including Sheriff John David Davis, a former moonshiner who had been pardoned by President Nixon and was convicted in 1984 of smuggling cannabis into south Georgia. Davis' case parallels that of a number of other former moonshiners who segued into the cannabis trade. In 1983, amidst controversy, the Drug Enforcement Administration conducted aerial spraying of illegal cannabis plots in the Chattahoochee National Forest in northern Georgia, using
Georgia board starts work on medical marijuana rules . [SEP] Marijuana Policy Project // making New York the 23rd medical marijuana state. The law's passage is the product of many years of work by legislative champions, patients, their loved ones, and advocacy organizations, including MPP, Compassionate Care NY, and the Drug Policy Alliance. The new law will protect certain seriously ill patients who use marijuana pursuant to their doctors’ advice from civil and criminal penalties. A number of modifications were made at the insistence of Gov. Cuomo. As a result, patients will not be allowed to smoke medical cannabis, the law will sunset after seven years, and there will be no more than five
Hyperbaric oxygen: The mysterious therapy that saved a cancer survivor from radiation side effects [SEP] Hyperbaric medicine // might have tumor-inhibitory effects in certain cancer subtypes, and we thus strongly believe that we need to expand our knowledge on the effect and the mechanisms behind tumor oxygenation." However, a 2011 study by the American Cancer Society reported no evidence it is effective for this purpose. Low-quality evidence suggests that hyperbaric oxygen therapy may reduce the pain associated with an acute migraine headache in some cases. It is not known which people would benefit from this treatment, and there is no evidence that hyperbaric medicine can prevent future migraines. More research is necessary to confirm the effectiveness of hyperbaric
Hyperbaric oxygen: The mysterious therapy that saved a cancer survivor from radiation side effects [SEP] Radiation therapy // increasing the effectiveness of a given dose of radiation by forming DNA-damaging free radicals. Tumor cells in a hypoxic environment may be as much as 2 to 3 times more resistant to radiation damage than those in a normal oxygen environment. Much research has been devoted to overcoming hypoxia including the use of high pressure oxygen tanks, hyperthermia therapy (heat therapy which dilates blood vessels to the tumor site), blood substitutes that carry increased oxygen, hypoxic cell radiosensitizer drugs such as misonidazole and metronidazole, and hypoxic cytotoxins (tissue poisons), such as tirapazamine. Newer research approaches are currently being studied, including
Hyperbaric oxygen: The mysterious therapy that saved a cancer survivor from radiation side effects [SEP] Hyperbaric medicine // Medical Association forced him to stop hyperbaric treatment, since he did not provide acceptable evidence that the treatments were effective. The English scientist Joseph Priestley discovered oxygen in 1775. Shortly after its discovery, there were reports of toxic effects of hyperbaric oxygen on the central nervous system and lungs, which delayed therapeutic applications until 1937, when Behnke and Shaw first used it in the treatment of decompression sickness. In 1955 and 1956 Churchill-Davidson, in the UK, used hyperbaric oxygen to enhance the radiosensitivity of tumours, while , at the University of Amsterdam, successfully used it in cardiac surgery. In 1961
Hyperbaric oxygen: The mysterious therapy that saved a cancer survivor from radiation side effects [SEP] Hyperbaric medicine // et al. published on the use of hyperbaric oxygen in the treatment of clostridial gas gangrene. In 1962 Smith and Sharp reported successful treatment of carbon monoxide poisoning with hyperbaric oxygen. The Undersea Medical Society (now Undersea and Hyperbaric Medical Society) formed a Committee on Hyperbaric Oxygenation which has become recognized as the authority on indications for hyperbaric oxygen treatment. Hyperbaric medicine Hyperbaric medicine is medical treatment in which an ambient pressure greater than sea level atmospheric pressure is a necessary component. The treatment comprises hyperbaric oxygen therapy (HBOT), the medical use of oxygen at an ambient pressure higher than
Hyperbaric oxygen: The mysterious therapy that saved a cancer survivor from radiation side effects [SEP] Hyperbaric medicine // or stroke. A Cochrane review published in 2016 has raised questions about the ethical basis for future clinical trials of hyperbaric oxygen therapy, in view of the increased risk of damage to the eardrum in children with autism spectrum disorders. Despite the lack of evidence, in 2015, the number of people utilizing this therapy has continued to rise. There is limited evidence that hyperbaric oxygen therapy improves hearing in patients with sudden sensorineural hearing loss who present within two weeks of hearing loss. There is some indication that HBOT might improve tinnitus presenting in the same time frame. HBOT in
Hyperbaric oxygen: The mysterious therapy that saved a cancer survivor from radiation side effects [SEP] Hyperbaric medicine // Hyperbaric medicine Hyperbaric medicine is medical treatment in which an ambient pressure greater than sea level atmospheric pressure is a necessary component. The treatment comprises hyperbaric oxygen therapy (HBOT), the medical use of oxygen at an ambient pressure higher than atmospheric pressure, and therapeutic recompression for decompression illness, intended to reduce the injurious effects of systemic gas bubbles by physically reducing their size and providing improved conditions for elimination of bubbles and excess dissolved gas. The equipment required for hyperbaric oxygen treatment consists of a pressure chamber, which may be of rigid or flexible construction, and a means of delivering
Hyperbaric oxygen: The mysterious therapy that saved a cancer survivor from radiation side effects [SEP] Experimental cancer treatment // is to create a lack of oxygen so that the heated cells become overacidified, which leads to a lack of nutrients in the tumor. This in turn disrupts the metabolism of the cells so that cell death (apoptosis) can set in. In certain cases chemotherapy or radiation that has previously not had any effect can be made effective. Hyperthermia alters the cell walls by means of so-called heat shock proteins. The cancer cells then react very much more effectively to the cytostatics and radiation. If hyperthermia is used conscientiously it has no serious side effects. There are many techniques by
Hyperbaric oxygen: The mysterious therapy that saved a cancer survivor from radiation side effects [SEP] Richard A Neubauer // of Beach Hospital. Neubauer obtained a hyperbaric oxygen chamber in the early 1970s, and established and directed the Ocean Hyperbaric Neurologic Center in Lauderdale-by-the-Sea, Florida. He was an early user of hyperbaric oxygen therapy for multiple sclerosis, near drowning, cerebral palsy, traumatic brain injury, anoxic encephalopathy, coma, stroke, and the treatment of mitochondrial diseases in children. Neubauer was the co-author with Morton Walker of "Hyperbaric Oxygen Therapy", and of "Hyperbaric Oxygenation for Cerebral Palsy and the Brain-Injured Child: A Promising Treatment". His most cited scientific article is "Hyperbaric Oxygenation As An Adjunct Therapy In Strokes Due To Thrombosis - A
Hyperbaric oxygen: The mysterious therapy that saved a cancer survivor from radiation side effects [SEP] Adjuvant therapy // or chemotherapy to boost the effects of these conventional treatments. Heating the tumor by Radio Frequency (RF) or Microwave energy increases oxygen content in the tumor site, which results in increased response during radiation or chemotherapy. For example, Hyperthermia is added twice a week to radiation therapy for the full course of the treatment in many cancer centers, and the challenge is to increase its use around the world. A motif found throughout the history of cancer therapy is the tendency for overtreatment. From the time of its inception, the use of adjuvant therapy has received scrutiny for its adverse
Hyperbaric oxygen: The mysterious therapy that saved a cancer survivor from radiation side effects [SEP] Hyperbaric medicine // breaks, because the risk of oxygen toxicity is low due to the lower oxygen partial pressures used (usually 1.3 ATA), and short duration of treatment. For alert, cooperative patients, air breaks provided by mask are more effective than changing the chamber gas because they provide a quicker gas change and a more reliable gas composition both during the break and treatment periods. Initially, HBOT was developed as a treatment for diving disorders involving bubbles of gas in the tissues, such as decompression sickness and gas embolism, It is still considered the definitive treatment for these conditions. The chamber treats decompression
Reducing Radiation Successfully Treats HPV-Positive Oropharynx Cancers and Minimizes Side Effects [SEP] HPV-positive oropharyngeal cancer // pathological examination, most radiation oncologists recommend radiation to the primary site, and concurrent chemotherapy. A negative margin is more likely to be treted with lower doses and a smaller treatment volume. Also the removal of a bulky tumour may allow reduced dosage to adjacent uninvolved pharyngeal structures and hence less effect on normal swallowing. The cancer outcomes (local control, regional control, and survival) for transoral resection followed by adjuvant therapy are comparable to primary chemoradiation, so that treatment decisions depend more on treatment-related morbidity, functional outcome, and quality of life. Patient factors also need to be taken into account, including
Reducing Radiation Successfully Treats HPV-Positive Oropharynx Cancers and Minimizes Side Effects [SEP] HPV-positive oropharyngeal cancer // overtreatment and unnecessary side effects. Current toxicities have been described as "not tolerable", and hence an intense interest in de-escalation. While comparison with historical controls has limited value compared to randomised clinical trials (phase III), phase II studies using reduced doses of radiation compared to the historical standard of 70 Gy have been carried out. A study using 54–60 Gy (a 15–20% reduction, stratified by response to initial induction chemotherapy) demonstrated comparable levels of disease control with much lower complication rates, when compared to similar studies, using 70 Gy, such as ECOG 2399. The percentage of patients alive after 2
Reducing Radiation Successfully Treats HPV-Positive Oropharynx Cancers and Minimizes Side Effects [SEP] HPV-positive oropharyngeal cancer // associated with traditional open surgical en-bloc resection, led to exploring alternative approaches using radiation. Intensity modulated radiation therapy (IMRT) can provide good control of primary tumours while preserving excellent control rates, with reduced toxicity to salivary and pharyngeal structures relative to earlier technology. HPV+OPC has shown increased sensitivity to radiation with more rapid regression, compared to HPV-OPC. Generally, radiation can safely be delivered to the involved side alone (ipsilateral), due to the low rate of recurrent cancer on the opposite side (contralateral), and significantly less toxicity compared to bilateral treatment. IMRT has a two-year disease free survival between 82 and
Reducing Radiation Successfully Treats HPV-Positive Oropharynx Cancers and Minimizes Side Effects [SEP] HPV-positive oropharyngeal cancer // addition of chemotherapy to radiation in either HPV+OPC or HPV-OPC, and significant concerns about added toxicity. Chemotherapy also has a role, combined with radiation, in the postoperative setting (adjuvant therapy). Generally it is used where the pathology of the resected specimen indicates features associated with high risk of locoregional recurrence (e.g. extracapsular extension through involved lymph nodes or very close margins). It has shown improved disease-free survival and locoregional control in two very similar clinical trials in such high risk patients, EORTC 22931 (1994–2000) and RTOG 9501 (1995–2000). However, for HPV+OPC patients, such extracapsular spread does not appear to be
Reducing Radiation Successfully Treats HPV-Positive Oropharynx Cancers and Minimizes Side Effects [SEP] HPV-positive oropharyngeal cancer // to minimize loss of function but maintain disease control. In the absence of specific clinical trials and guidelines, patient preferences need to be taken into consideration to minimise short and long term toxicity and functional loss and optimize quality of life, given the prolonged survival frequently seen. This may involve exploring patients' values regarding trade-offs of disease control against adverse effects of treatment. Patients who have received CRT as primary treatment for OPC place a high value on survival, and although agreeing that deintensification is desirable, were reluctant to trade off much survival advantage for lower toxicity, though would be
Reducing Radiation Successfully Treats HPV-Positive Oropharynx Cancers and Minimizes Side Effects [SEP] HPV-positive oropharyngeal cancer // MC1273 and DART-HPV have evaluated doses as low as 30–36 Gy. Lowering the radiation dose to 54 Gy was identified as one of the important Clinical Cancer Advances of 2018 by the American Society of Clinical Oncology, under the general theme of "Less Is More: Preserving Quality of Life With Less Treatment". Chemotherapy has been used concurrently with radiation in this setting, as in primary treatment with radical radiation, particularly where pathological features indicated a higher risk of cancer recurrence. A number of studies have suggested that this does not improve local control, although adding toxicity. Concerns over the morbidity
Reducing Radiation Successfully Treats HPV-Positive Oropharynx Cancers and Minimizes Side Effects [SEP] HPV-positive oropharyngeal cancer // a single modality, especially in earlier stages, e.g. T1-T2, N0-1, and its use in later stages is being explored in clinical trials such as RTOG 1333 which compares radiation alone to radiation with reduced chemotherapy, in non or light smokers. As with the radiotherapy data, most of the available knowledge on the efficacy of chemotherapy derives from the treatment of advanced head and neck cancer rather than specific studies of HPV+OPC. Since 1976, many clinical studies have compared CRT to RT alone in the primary management of locally advanced head and neck cancers and have demonstrated an advantage to CRT
Reducing Radiation Successfully Treats HPV-Positive Oropharynx Cancers and Minimizes Side Effects [SEP] HPV-positive oropharyngeal cancer // similar population in the National Cancer Database (2004–2013) of over 9,000 patients found a survival advantage but this was only in HPV-OPC, not in 410 HPV+OPC patients, and a subsequent study of 2,500 low and intermediate risk HPV+OPC patients showed similar overall survival whether PORT was given or not. While less studies have been completed examining deintensification (de-escalation) in this setting, than in primary radical radiation for this cancer (see below), it is an area of active investigation. In one single institution study, a decision was made to reduce the radiation dose in high risk patients with HPV+OPC from 66
Reducing Radiation Successfully Treats HPV-Positive Oropharynx Cancers and Minimizes Side Effects [SEP] HPV-positive oropharyngeal cancer // OPC, but was associated with increased mucositis and need for feeding by gastrostomy. Chemotherapy and radiation are associated with a risk of death of 3–4% in this context. It is unclear whether the added toxicity of adding chemotherapy to radiation is offset by significant clinical benefit in disease control and survival. It is thought that HPV+OPC patients benefit better from radiotherapy and concurrent cetuximab treatment than HPV-OPC patients receiving the same treatment, and that radiation and cisplatin induce an immune response against an antigenic tumour which enhances their effect on the cancer cells. Although the incidence of HPV positivity is
Reducing Radiation Successfully Treats HPV-Positive Oropharynx Cancers and Minimizes Side Effects [SEP] HPV-positive oropharyngeal cancer // an adverse factor and the addition of chemotherapy to radiation in this group provided no further advantage. Since the sample size to detect a survival advantage is large, given the small number of events in this group, these studies may have been underpowered and the question of the utility of adding chemotherapy is being addressed in a randomized clinical trial (ADEPT) with two year locoregional control and disease free survival as the endpoint. The addition of chemotherapy to radiation increases acute and late toxicity. In the GORTEC trial, chemotherapy with docetaxel provided improved survival and locoregional control in locally advanced
China toddler fights fat in land of little emperors. [SEP] Big Trouble in Little China (video game) // Big Trouble in Little China (video game) Big Trouble in Little China is a 1986 video game designed by Mevlut Dinc and published by Electric Dreams Software for the Amstrad CPC, Commodore 64 and ZX Spectrum. It is a tie-in licence for the film of the same name. "Big Trouble in Little China" is a side-scrolling beat 'em up. The player controls one of the three main protagonists and may switch between them during play. The characters progresses from right to left – an unusual orientation in this genre of game – fighting oncoming enemies. Initially, the three characters fight
China toddler fights fat in land of little emperors. [SEP] Big Trouble in Little China (video game) // unarmed, but each has a weapon of choice that can be collected. Jack Burton can use a gun with limited ammunition, and Wang Chi can wield swords which eventually break. The third character, Egg Shen, initially fires weak magic bolts which improve with range and strength when he finds a magic potion. "Big Trouble in Little China" received diverse critical reception. Your Sinclair awarded 8 out of 10, highlighting smooth scrolling and good sprite animation, only criticising the unbalanced difficulty with some enemies. In a later retrospective on tie-in licences, Your Sinclair found the animation to be poor, with little
China toddler fights fat in land of little emperors. [SEP] Little Emperor Syndrome // frequent cautionary stories in the press." These stories depict children hanging themselves after being denied sweets and cases of matricide in retribution for a scolding or late dinner. The discussion of Little Emperors has saturated public discussion concerning the one-child policy in Chinese and international media. Psychological studies do not support this view or, at best, offered mixed results. Results from earlier studies are inconsistent with some more recent studies that suggest there are no reliable differences between only children and those with siblings. However, a survey published in 2013 on 431 Beijing adults finds that those who had grown
China toddler fights fat in land of little emperors. [SEP] Little Emperor Syndrome // Little Emperor Syndrome The Little Emperor Syndrome (or Little Emperor Effect) was an aspect/view of Mainland China's one-child policy where children of modern upper class and wealthier Chinese families gain seemingly excessive amounts of attention from their parents and grandparents. Combined with increased spending power due to China's growing economic strength within the family unit and parents' general desire for their child to experience the benefits they themselves were denied, the phenomenon is generally considered to be problematic. The British journalist Andrew Marshall even argues that it is shaping modern Chinese society in unexpected ways that may culminate into a
China toddler fights fat in land of little emperors. [SEP] Big Trouble in Little China // Big Trouble in Little China Big Trouble in Little China is a 1986 American fantasy martial arts comedy film directed by John Carpenter and starring Kurt Russell, Kim Cattrall, Dennis Dun, and James Hong. The film tells the story of Jack Burton, who helps his friend Wang Chi rescue Wang's green-eyed fiancée from bandits in San Francisco's Chinatown. They go into the mysterious underworld beneath Chinatown, where they face an ancient sorcerer named David Lo Pan, who requires a woman with green eyes to marry him in order to release him from a centuries-old curse. Although the original screenplay by
China toddler fights fat in land of little emperors. [SEP] Big Trouble in Little China (video game) // variety in enemy types, and amended their score to 52%. Conversely, Sinclair User gave only 1 star out of 5, describing the characters as poorly depicted, with no atmosphere or sound effects. Big Trouble in Little China (video game) Big Trouble in Little China is a 1986 video game designed by Mevlut Dinc and published by Electric Dreams Software for the Amstrad CPC, Commodore 64 and ZX Spectrum. It is a tie-in licence for the film of the same name. "Big Trouble in Little China" is a side-scrolling beat 'em up. The player controls one of the three main protagonists
China toddler fights fat in land of little emperors. [SEP] Big Trouble in Little China // 2020, Jack Burton comes out of retirement to battle Ching Dai and save the world. In February 2015, Funko released a line of ReAction and Pop! vinyl figures based on "Big Trouble In Little China". On July 15, 2016, BOOM! Studios announced a partnership with Everything Epic and Flipside to create a board game based on the film. It will be a cooperative miniatures game for 1–4 players and it is slated to be released commercially in 2017. Link to game In August 2016, Upper Deck released Big Trouble in Little China Legendary deck-building card game. It is a cooperative
China toddler fights fat in land of little emperors. [SEP] Little Emperor Syndrome // From toys to clothes, parents shower their child in material goods and give in to every demand; it is common for children to be the "best-dressed members of their families." Recently, it has become common for most of a family's income to be spent on the child. This effect has become considerable enough to be noticed on a global scale: marketing groups attribute a near doubling of platinum Jewellery sales in China to "China's 'spoiled brat' generation." Little Emperors also bear the burden of heavy expectations. Parents who feel they lost their chance in the Cultural Revolution ("compensation syndrome") put
China toddler fights fat in land of little emperors. [SEP] Little Fighter 2 // Hong Kong, and Taiwan to be released on 15 June 2006. Little Fighter 2 Little Fighter 2 (LF2; ) is a Hong Kong freeware PC fighting game for Windows and is the sequel to the game "Little Fighter". "Little Fighter 2" was created by Marti Wong and Starsky Wong in 1999, and received a long series of updates. The game supports up to 4 human players on one computer and a total of 8 characters using online play or computer-controlled opponents. Characters are controlled using the keyboard or a gamepad. All keys can be custom set via a configuration menu.
China toddler fights fat in land of little emperors. [SEP] Little Fatty // Little Fatty Little Fatty (小胖 Xiǎo Pàng) is an internet meme involving superimposing the face of a boy on various photographs. Because of the internet meme and the resulting sudden fame, the boy, Qian Zhijun, decided to become a public figure, and he became a major celebrity and an actor in China. The "Little Fatty" meme is an example of earlier "e gao" works, which mainly consisted of images edited in Adobe Photoshop. In 2003 an unknown individual took a photograph of Qian Zhijun, a student from Jinshan District, Shanghai, while Qian attended a traffic safety event arranged by his
California has seen a "56 percent decline in the gun murder rate" since the 1990s. [SEP] Antonio Villaraigosa // the "citywide crime-rate drop to the lowest level since 1956, the total number of homicides fall[ing] to a 38-year low. Gang homicides were down more than 24 percent in 2008." However, former Chief of Police Daryl Gates argued against this statistic, citing a trend toward lengthier prison sentences for career criminals as the reason for the change. In fact, crime fell by 43 percent across California between 1994 and 1999. The figures are also disputed by Patrick Range McDonald and Professor Andrew Karmen, John Jay College of Criminal Justice. Karmen stated that, adjusting for population, the Los Angeles murder rate
California has seen a "56 percent decline in the gun murder rate" since the 1990s. [SEP] Crime in California // per 100,000 population. Murders in Los Angeles have decreased since the peak year of 1993, when the homicide rate was 21.1 (per 100,000 population). On 12 September 2018, a shooting rampage was witnessed in Bakersfield, where a man killed five people and then took his life as well. The mass shooting is considered to be the third deadliest gun violence in the US in 2018. As one of the fifty states of the United States, California follows common law criminal procedure. The principal source of law for California criminal procedure is the California Penal Code, Part 2, "Of Criminal Procedure."
California has seen a "56 percent decline in the gun murder rate" since the 1990s. [SEP] Stockton, California // record high of 71 homicides in 2012 before dropping to 32 for all of 2013. Stockton Police Chief Eric Jones credited 2013's drop in the murder rate to Operation Ceasefire, a gun violence intervention strategy pioneered in Boston and implemented in Stockton in 2012, combined with a federal gun and narcotics operation. On January 17, 1989, the Stockton Police Department received a threat against Cleveland Elementary School from an unknown person. Later that day, Patrick Purdy, who was later found to be mentally ill, opened fire on the school's playground with a semi-automatic rifle, killing five children, all Cambodian or
California has seen a "56 percent decline in the gun murder rate" since the 1990s. [SEP] California Firearm Violence Research Center // California Firearm Violence Research Center The California Firearm Violence Research Center is a forthcoming research center the California legislature approved to fund on June 16, 2016. The center will live within the University of California and will be the first publicly charted center in the United States. Garen Wintemute and Senator Lois Wolk led the proposal to create the center. With access to California's gun violence data, the center will investigate policy efficacy, links between gun violence and alcohol abuse, and more. California's annual death rate related to gun violence has dropped 20% since 2000, despite an unchanged national rate.
California has seen a "56 percent decline in the gun murder rate" since the 1990s. [SEP] California Firearm Violence Research Center // California Firearm Violence Research Center The California Firearm Violence Research Center is a forthcoming research center the California legislature approved to fund on June 16, 2016. The center will live within the University of California and will be the first publicly charted center in the United States. Garen Wintemute and Senator Lois Wolk led the proposal to create the center. With access to California's gun violence data, the center will investigate policy efficacy, links between gun violence and alcohol abuse, and more. California's annual death rate related to gun violence has dropped 20% since 2000, despite an unchanged national rate.
California has seen a "56 percent decline in the gun murder rate" since the 1990s. [SEP] Universal background check // the study period, firearm suicide rates were 10.9 percent lower in California but a similar decrease in non-firearm suicide was also observed. The study found no net difference between firearm-related homicide rates before and during the study period. The study authors identified a number of possible reasons for the null finding, including inadequate reporting of criminal records or other disqualifying information to background-check databases (especially pre-2000); a failure by sellers to conduct the background check as required by law; and the small number of persons affected by the California law. In a 2017 survey, a panel of 32 scholars of
California has seen a "56 percent decline in the gun murder rate" since the 1990s. [SEP] Oakland, California // reported 131 homicides, the highest number since 2006, when 148 killings were recorded. Since 2012 there have been continued decreases in various categories of crime, including homicides. In 2013, there was a 33% decline in homicides from the previous year, allowing Oakland to record its lowest homicide count since 2004. Aggravated assaults were down 10%; and rapes declined by 27%, the lowest level of that crime in eight years. In its crime statistics released for the year 2016, the Oakland Police Department reported a total of 93 murders. That total for 2016 still constitutes a 29% drop in homicides when
California has seen a "56 percent decline in the gun murder rate" since the 1990s. [SEP] Crime in the United States // been 185,718 homicides from use of a firearm and 291,571 suicides using a firearm. Despite a significant increase in the sales of firearms since 1994, the US has seen a drop in the annual rate of homicides using a firearm from 7.0 per 100,000 population in 1993 to 3.6 per 100,000. In the ten years between 2000 and 2009, the ATF reported 37,372,713 clearances for purchase, however, in the four years between 2010 and 2013, the ATF reported 31,421,528 clearances. According to a 2004 study by the Bureau of Justice Statistics, looking at the period from 1981 to 1999, the
California has seen a "56 percent decline in the gun murder rate" since the 1990s. [SEP] Thousand Oaks, California // decline. In 2015, there were 1.05 violent crimes per 1,000 residents, up from 0.99 in 2014. Overall, the city experienced an one percent crime decrease between 2014 and 2015. Petty theft was the most-reported crime category in 2013, accounting for 40% of all crimes. On the night of Wednesday, November 7, 2018, at 11:20 p.m. (local time), a mass shooting occurred at the local "Borderline Bar & Grill", when a man forcefully entered the venue during a weekly country event. Police reported multiple casualties and several injured attendees had to be transported to nearby hospitals. According to an eyewitness, the
California has seen a "56 percent decline in the gun murder rate" since the 1990s. [SEP] Oakland, California // of the city's elected officials are known to be Democrats. Substantial progress has been made in reducing the city's historically high crime rate. Gun crime is primarily concentrated in certain poor minority neighborhoods with nearly all homicides committed by guns. Oakland's crime rate had begun to escalate during the late 1960s; and by the end of the 1970s, during the drug wars, the city's per capita murder rate had risen to twice that of San Francisco or New York City. The primary factor in the rising crime rate has been the dramatic increase of street narcotics sales and use since
A video shows Londoners expressing support for the US President, following a June 2017 terrorist attack in the city [SEP] Britain First // by Fransen and Paul Golding with the statement "God Bless you Trump! God Bless America!". Britain First boasted of a surge in support after Trump retweeted its videos. The three Islamophobic videos tweeted by Fransen were inflammatory and unverified: Britain First has a history of sharing misleading videos. A video ("Muslim Destroys a Statue of Virgin Mary!") was filmed during the Syrian Civil War in 2013 and showed a man, who is believed to be an Al-Nusra supporter, destroying a statue of Mary and stating: "No-one but Allah will be worshipped in the land of the Levant." The third video
A video shows Londoners expressing support for the US President, following a June 2017 terrorist attack in the city [SEP] Donald Trump on social media // resolve in the face of these cowardly terrorist attacks. He is more of a statesman than Donald Trump will ever be." Lewis Lukens, the former US ambassador to the UK, and the United States Conference of Mayors declared their support, with Lukens commending Khan's "strong leadership" in leading London forward after the attack and also praising the "extraordinary response" from the law enforcement community. Trump tweeted the following day that the London Mayor was offering a "pathetic excuse" for his statement, and alleging that the mainstream media were "working hard to sell" Khan's explanation. When asked about these comments following
A video shows Londoners expressing support for the US President, following a June 2017 terrorist attack in the city [SEP] Demonstrations in support of Donald Trump // Trump’s visit to Britain. It had been planned from the beginning that Trump’s supporters would merge with those of the EDL founder. The pro-Trump protesters wore Make America Great Again hats chanting “USA” as they also supported Tommy Robinson. . A day before the protests, Scotland Yard had announced that it would impose restrictions to “prevent serious disorder and disruption to Londoners” after violence was witnessed during the previous protest in a bid to free Robinson. The order stated that no vehicles would be involved and the two groups of protesters had to use the route from Temple Place to
A video shows Londoners expressing support for the US President, following a June 2017 terrorist attack in the city [SEP] United Kingdom–United States relations // perceived racism. During his presidency there were protests when he was inaugurated, when he announced his first immigration ban on citizens from certain Muslim countries, and when he said he would recognize Jerusalem as the capital of Israel. On 4 June 2017, Trump responded to a terror attack on London Bridge by attacking London Mayor Sadiq Khan for saying that there "was no reason to be alarmed". The comments were condemned by Khan who stated that his remarks were deliberately taken out of context in that he was referring to an increased police presence in the days after the attack,
A video shows Londoners expressing support for the US President, following a June 2017 terrorist attack in the city [SEP] 2017 London Bridge attack // day. By 16 June, all those arrested had been released without charge. Prime Minister Theresa May returned to Downing Street from campaigning for the upcoming snap general election. May, on the morning after the attack, said the incident was being treated as terrorism, and that the recent terror attacks in the UK are "bound together by the single evil ideology of Islamist extremism" which "is a perversion of Islam". As part of a four-point plan to tackle terrorism, she called for tighter internet regulations to "deprive the extremists of their safe spaces online", saying that technology firms were not currently
A video shows Londoners expressing support for the US President, following a June 2017 terrorist attack in the city [SEP] Jayda Fransen // is believed to be an Al-Nusra supporter, destroying a statue of Mary. The third video ("Islamist mob pushes teenage boy off roof and beats him to death!") contained footage in Alexandria, Egypt during a period of violent unrest following the 2013 Egyptian coup d'état: it showed supporters of the deposed President Mohammed Morsi attacking one of his critics. Prime Minister Theresa May condemned Trump's retweets of the anti-Muslim videos, stating that "it is wrong for the president to have done this", and, "Britain First seeks to divide communities through their use of hateful narratives which peddle lies and stoke tensions".
A video shows Londoners expressing support for the US President, following a June 2017 terrorist attack in the city [SEP] Parsons Green train bombing // time, as a result of the raise in threat level. The terror threat level was then returned to 'Severe' by JTAC on 17 September 2017. Citing the Parsons Green train bombing, police advised the public not to record terrorist events, but instead to "run, hide, tell". US President Donald Trump tweeted: "Another attack in London by a loser terrorist. These are sick and demented people who were in the sights of Scotland Yard. Must be proactive!" He also touted his proposed travel ban. His comments were described by Theresa May, who characterised the tweets as inaccurate speculation, as "not helpful."
A video shows Londoners expressing support for the US President, following a June 2017 terrorist attack in the city [SEP] 2017 London Bridge attack // that the terrorists did not represent Islam. Condolences, expressions of shock, support, solidarity and sympathy were offered by many national governments and supranational bodies. 2017 London Bridge attack On 3 June 2017, a terrorist vehicle-ramming and stabbing took place in London, England. A van was deliberately driven into pedestrians on London Bridge before crashing on the south bank of the River Thames. Its three occupants then ran to the nearby Borough Market area and began stabbing people in and around restaurants and pubs. The attackers were Islamists inspired by Islamic State (ISIS). They were shot dead by Metropolitan Police officers
A video shows Londoners expressing support for the US President, following a June 2017 terrorist attack in the city [SEP] Britain First // appearing in any future photographs. On 27 September 2015, Paul Golding announced that he would stand as a candidate in the 2016 London mayoral election. He received 31,372 or 1.2% of the vote, coming eighth of twelve candidates. During the victory speech of Labour's Sadiq Khan, he turned his back. In May 2013, following the murder of Lee Rigby, Britain First released a video threatening to place Islamist cleric Anjem Choudary, who was accused of radicalising Rigby's killers, under citizen's arrest if the Metropolitan Police would not arrest him On 5 January 2015, a district judge at Chelmsford Magistrates' Court
A video shows Londoners expressing support for the US President, following a June 2017 terrorist attack in the city [SEP] 2017 London Bridge attack // Rudd commissioned David Anderson QC to provide independent assurance of the review work. The Leader of the Opposition Jeremy Corbyn, the Liberal Democrat leader Tim Farron and the Mayor of London Sadiq Khan all wrote on Twitter that their thoughts were with those affected and expressed thanks to the emergency services. Khan described the attack as "deliberate and cowardly" and condemned it "in the strongest possible terms". He later said that "the city remains one of the safest in the world" and there was "no reason to be alarmed" over the increased police presence around the city. The Conservative Party,
Kyleen Wright Says murder is the chief cause of death for pregnant women. [SEP] Murder of pregnant women // had not been pregnant in the year previous to their death, and accounted for 6.4% of deaths in this group. The second leading cause of pregnancy-associated death, heart disease, accounted for 19%. A study using data from the District of Columbia also found that homicide was the leading cause of pregnancy-associated death. A CDC study reported that "the overall pregnancy-associated homicide ratio was 1.7 deaths per 100 000 live births", and that homicide was not the leading cause of pregnancy-associated death, though it was still highlighted as among the leading causes. However, Horon and Cheng argued that the CDC's study
Kyleen Wright Says murder is the chief cause of death for pregnant women. [SEP] Murder of pregnant women // studied class of murder. Limited statistics are available as there is no reliable system in place yet to track such cases. Whether pregnancy is a causal factor is hard to determine. ABC News have reported that studies in Maryland, New York, and Chicago found that approximately 20 percent of women who die during pregnancy are victims of murder. In 2004, "The Washington Post" examined death-record data across the US which documented the killings of 1,367 pregnant women and new mothers since 1990. The newspaper reports: [T]he killings span racial and ethnic groups. In cases whose details were known, 67 percent
Kyleen Wright Says murder is the chief cause of death for pregnant women. [SEP] Murder of pregnant women // of women were killed with firearms. Many women were slain at home — in bedrooms, living rooms, kitchens — usually by men they knew. Husbands. Boyfriends. Lovers.Isabelle Horon and Diana Cheng of the Maryland Department of Health and Mental Hygiene conducted a study of pregnancy-associated deaths in Maryland between 1993 and 1998, defining pregnancy-associated death as death during pregnancy or within a year of pregnancy ending. They found that homicide was the leading cause of pregnancy-associated death, accounting for 20% of such deaths. In contrast, homicide was only the fifth leading cause of death for women of reproductive age who
Kyleen Wright Says murder is the chief cause of death for pregnant women. [SEP] Murder of pregnant women // underestimated the problem because it used incomplete information. Using more sources of information, Horon and Cheng found that the rate of pregnancy-associated homicide in Maryland was 10.5 per 100,000 live births. They suggested a need for US states to improve their collection of data on pregnancy-associated deaths. "The Washington Post" reported in 2004 that "13 states said they had no way of telling how many pregnant and postpartum women had been killed in recent years". In 2003, California remedied this by changing its death certificate documentation to include a female victim's maternity status. Homicide was the second-leading cause of death
Kyleen Wright Says murder is the chief cause of death for pregnant women. [SEP] Murder of pregnant women // pregnancy at the time of death sometimes being coincidental. Murder of pregnant women Murder of pregnant women is a type of homicide often resulting from domestic violence. Domestic violence—or intimate partner violence (IPV)—is suffered by many, and when analyzing cases in which victims came forward, majority of them are women. Many of these women fear harm not just to themselves but also to their unborn children. Recently, more focus has been placed on pregnancy-associated deaths due to violence. IPV may begin when the victim becomes pregnant. Research has shown that abuse while pregnant is a red flag for pregnancy-associated homicide.
Kyleen Wright Says murder is the chief cause of death for pregnant women. [SEP] Murder of pregnant women // may offer a focal point for effective pregnancy-associated mortality prevention efforts because many of these women come into contact with the health care system before their deaths." Reviews of Intimate Partner Homicide policy and research has identified several needs: System-wide training in healthcare on signs of domestic violence and system-wide screening for domestic violence by health care providers, as well as the knowledge of where to refer women to that need services when abuse is disclosed. Statistics for pregnancy as being a motivating factor in the murder of a pregnant woman are usually unavailable. Motives may vary, with a woman's
Kyleen Wright Says murder is the chief cause of death for pregnant women. [SEP] Murder of pregnant women // Murder of pregnant women Murder of pregnant women is a type of homicide often resulting from domestic violence. Domestic violence—or intimate partner violence (IPV)—is suffered by many, and when analyzing cases in which victims came forward, majority of them are women. Many of these women fear harm not just to themselves but also to their unborn children. Recently, more focus has been placed on pregnancy-associated deaths due to violence. IPV may begin when the victim becomes pregnant. Research has shown that abuse while pregnant is a red flag for pregnancy-associated homicide. The murder of pregnant women represents a relatively recently
Kyleen Wright Says murder is the chief cause of death for pregnant women. [SEP] Murder of pregnant women // the National Network to End Domestic Violence regarding the Unborn Victims of Violence Act. While it is almost impossible to determine an exact intervention point to prevent pregnancy-associated homicides, some possible opportunities can be pinpointed. The medical community is one of those points. Women may feel safe speaking to their health care providers about the abuse, especially after discovering they are pregnant. Some medical office and hospital policies specify that doctors will examine the patient privately without allowing the partner access. In a 2001 editorial in the Journal of the American Medical Association, Victoria Frye writes, "Homicide by intimate partners
Kyleen Wright Says murder is the chief cause of death for pregnant women. [SEP] Murder of pregnant women // prosecution of the offender" (National Conference of State Legislatures, 2008). Laci Peterson, murdered in 2002, is one of the more high-profile homicides. Currently in the North Carolina Senate, a bill called the SB 353 Unborn Victims of Violence Act is being considered for legislation that would create a separate criminal offense for the death of a fetus when the mother is murdered. The North Carolina Coalition Against Domestic Violence does not support this law for numerous reasons including failure to see violence against the mother as the cause of the fetal death. The Coalition does, however, support the position of
Kyleen Wright Says murder is the chief cause of death for pregnant women. [SEP] Murder of pregnant women // among women ages 20 to 24 and fifth among women ages 25–34 in 1999. The top cause of death in both age groups is accidents. The Unborn Victims of Violence Act, passed in 2004, defines a fetus as a "child in uterus" and a person as being a legal crime victim "if a fetal injury or death occurs during the commission of a federal violent crime." In the U.S., 38 states have laws with more harsh penalties if the victim is murdered while pregnant. Some of these laws defining the fetus as being a person, "for the purpose of criminal
Teenage environmental activist Greta Thunberg is actually an Australian actress named Estella Renee. [SEP] Greta Thunberg // Greta Thunberg Greta Thunberg (born 3 January 2003) is a Swedish climate activist. She is known for striking outside the Swedish parliament building to raise climate change activism, speaking at TEDxStockholm, and addressing the COP24 UN climate conference. Thunberg was born on 3 January 2003. Her mother is Malena Ernman, a Swedish opera singer. Thunberg's father is Svante Thunberg, who is an actor named after Svante Arrhenius. Arrhenius is an ancestor of her father, and won a Nobel Prize in Chemistry for calculating the effects of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere. Her grandfather is Olof Thunberg, an actor and a
Teenage environmental activist Greta Thunberg is actually an Australian actress named Estella Renee. [SEP] Greta Thunberg // including The Netherlands, Germany, Finland and Denmark. In Australia, thousands of school students were inspired by Thunberg to strike on Fridays, ignoring Prime Minister Scott Morrison's comments of " more learning in schools and less activism". On Twitter, she used hashtags and spread online awareness. Thunberg participated in the Rise for Climate demonstration outside the European Parliament in Brussels and the Declaration of Rebellion organized by Extinction Rebellion in London. On 24 November 2018, she spoke at TEDxStockholm. Towards the conclusion of her talk, Thunberg said, "We've had thirty years of pep-talking and selling positive ideas. And I'm sorry, but
Teenage environmental activist Greta Thunberg is actually an Australian actress named Estella Renee. [SEP] Greta Thunberg // it doesn't work. Because if it would have, the emissions would have gone down by now—they haven't." On 4 December 2018, Thunberg addressed the COP24 United Nations climate change summit. On 12 December 2018, Thunberg again addressed the COP24 plenary assembly, stating: Greta Thunberg Greta Thunberg (born 3 January 2003) is a Swedish climate activist. She is known for striking outside the Swedish parliament building to raise climate change activism, speaking at TEDxStockholm, and addressing the COP24 UN climate conference. Thunberg was born on 3 January 2003. Her mother is Malena Ernman, a Swedish opera singer. Thunberg's father is Svante
Teenage environmental activist Greta Thunberg is actually an Australian actress named Estella Renee. [SEP] Greta Thunberg // director. Greta Thunberg has been diagnosed with Asperger's syndrome. On 20 August 2018, Thunberg, then in ninth grade, decided to not attend school until the 2018 Sweden general election on 9 September after heat waves and wildfires in Sweden. Her demands were that the Sweden government reduce carbon emissions as per the Paris Agreement, and she protested via sitting outside the Riksdag every day during school hours with the sign ""Skolstrejk för klimatet"" (school strike for the climate). After the general elections, she continued to strike only on Fridays, which gained worldwide attention. Similar protests were organized in other countries,
Teenage environmental activist Greta Thunberg is actually an Australian actress named Estella Renee. [SEP] Extinction Rebellion // Rebellion" against the UK government and speeches by Donnachadh McCarthy, 15-year-old Greta Thunberg, the Swedish schoolgirl "on strike" from school over her own government's climate inaction, Julia Bradbury, and Green MEP Molly Scott Cato in the square. After a motion was proposed and agreed, the assembly then moved to occupy the road, where Caroline Lucas, George Monbiot, and other speakers and singers, including Seize the Day, continued from the reclaimed street directly in front of the Houses of Parliament. Following this, 15 campaigners were arrested for deliberately continuing the sit-in in the roadway. In the first two weeks of the
Teenage environmental activist Greta Thunberg is actually an Australian actress named Estella Renee. [SEP] Estella Warren // Estella Warren Estella Dawn Warren (born December 23, 1978) is a Canadian actress, fashion model, and former synchronized swimmer. During her swimming career she was a member of the Canadian national team and won three national titles. Since 1994 she has been modeling through publications such as "Sports Illustrated" as well as working for campaigns for such brands as "Perry Ellis" and "Victoria's Secret". She later began a career as an actress, starring in such films as Tim Burton's 2001 re-adapted film "Planet of the Apes" as well as television roles in "Law & Order", "" and "Beauty and the
Teenage environmental activist Greta Thunberg is actually an Australian actress named Estella Renee. [SEP] Julie Estelle // known since playing in the movie "Alexandria" (2005) which is also her first film. Through this film, Estelle was nominated as the "Most Favorite Rising Star" for MTV Indonesia Awards and won it. She also starred in "Dealova", "Kuntilanak", and "Selamanya". In addition to being a model she also has appeared in several Indonesian music videos. Estelle joined Gareth Evans' "Berandal", the sequel of 2011 hit "" as Hammer Girl, a female fighter proficient in Silat harimau. Evans was impressed with her acting during the casting test and decided to choose her in spite of her lack of martial arts
Teenage environmental activist Greta Thunberg is actually an Australian actress named Estella Renee. [SEP] Julie Estelle // Julie Estelle Julie Estelle Gasnier (born January 4, 1989) is an Indonesian actress and model. Her first leading role in 2005 at the age of 15 was in the drama "Alexandria", followed by the horror film "Kuntilanak" in 2006 (known as "The Chanting" in English), and two sequels in 2007 and 2008. Although she previously said she would not make another horror film, she took a role in horror movie "Rumah Dara" in early 2010, and the movie was a huge hit. Internationally, she is best known for her roles as Ladya in "Macabre" (2009) and Hammer Girl in "The
Teenage environmental activist Greta Thunberg is actually an Australian actress named Estella Renee. [SEP] Julie Estelle // background. For the role of Hammer Girl, she trained in pencak silat under Yayan Ruhian who is also the co-choreographer of the film. She had a relationship with Indonesian racer Moreno Suprapto but broke up with him in 2008. She was featured on the cover of Playboy Magazine's Indonesian edition in July 2006 right after she had turned 17. Julie Estelle Julie Estelle Gasnier (born January 4, 1989) is an Indonesian actress and model. Her first leading role in 2005 at the age of 15 was in the drama "Alexandria", followed by the horror film "Kuntilanak" in 2006 (known as
Teenage environmental activist Greta Thunberg is actually an Australian actress named Estella Renee. [SEP] Ellen Sandell // was born in February 2017. Ellen Sandell Ellen Sandell (born 26 November 1984) is an Australian politician and environmentalist. She has represented the electorate of Melbourne in the Parliament of Victoria since 2014. She was a recipient of the Young Environmentalist of the Year Award in 2009 and director of the Australian Youth Climate Coalition between 2011–2012. Ellen Sandell grew up in Mildura, where she attended St Joseph's College. She went on to study at the University of Melbourne, graduating in 2008 with a Bachelor of Arts (majoring in Spanish and linguistics) and a Bachelor of Science (majoring in genetics).
Keanu Reeves supposedly wrote an inspiring open letter about life and loss that has gone viral online. [SEP] Keanu Reeves // "Do I believe in God, faith, inner faith, the self, passion, and things? Yes, of course! I'm very spiritual. Supremely spiritual. Bountifully spiritual. Supremely bountiful." Reeves has generally been reticent about his spiritual beliefs, saying that it is something "personal and private". In 2010, an image of Reeves became an internet meme after photos of him, seemingly depressed while sitting on a park bench eating alone, were posted to a 4chan board. The images were soon distributed via several blogs and news sites. These pictures led to the "Keanu is Sad" or "Sad Keanu" meme being spread on internet forums.
Keanu Reeves supposedly wrote an inspiring open letter about life and loss that has gone viral online. [SEP] Keanu Reeves // undressed and took a shower in Reeves' bathroom before swimming naked in his pool. The cleaning crew became suspicious and alerted Reeves, who was not at home. He then notified the police and the stalker was remanded. Reeves set up a cancer charity, choosing not to attach his name to the organization; he has also supported PETA, the SickKids Foundation and Stand Up to Cancer. In 2014, he said in an interview that his sister Kim had battled leukemia for more than a decade. Reeves is quoted as saying, "Money is the last thing I think about. I could live
Keanu Reeves supposedly wrote an inspiring open letter about life and loss that has gone viral online. [SEP] An Open Letter to Honey Singh // An open letter to Honey Singh from a parent" in July 2014. The video was uploaded to YouTube on 28 January 2015. It went viral on social media and had received about a million hits on YouTube by 2 February 2015. As of August 10, 2015, the video had received over 1.6 million hits. An Open Letter to Honey Singh An Open Letter to Honey Singh is a 3.5-minute rap video featuring Rene Sharanya Verma, a student of St. Stephen's College, Delhi, performing at Café Zingo Star in Greater Kailash-II organised by Delhi Poetry Slam, an initiative that aims to
Keanu Reeves supposedly wrote an inspiring open letter about life and loss that has gone viral online. [SEP] Ketchup Clouds // a person. Zoe eventually goes to Max's funeral and reads out a poem written by Mr Harris. She signs her letter with her real name, Alice Jones. The book ends with a letter addressed to Alice from Aaron, who is living his dream to travel round the world, and is currently in Bolivia. He says that once he's finished writing his letter, "I'll tear it up and throw it away, just like I've done with all the rest...True love is about sacrifice, after all, and if I want you to be free of the memory of Max, you need to
Keanu Reeves supposedly wrote an inspiring open letter about life and loss that has gone viral online. [SEP] Kirk Reeves // to a spot on the Hawthorne Bridge, where he often performed during his later years. His signature tunes included "Somewhere Over the Rainbow," the title theme from the "Star Wars" film series and "Amazing Grace." Reeves also wrote four unpublished novels and was the host of a Portland-area cable access show called "Low Comedy." In May 2012, he traveled to Los Angeles to audition for a slot on "America's Got Talent" and "Shark Tank" but wasn't selected for either program. Despondent over his setbacks as an entertainer and his health problems, Reeves committed suicide on the weekend of November 3,
Keanu Reeves supposedly wrote an inspiring open letter about life and loss that has gone viral online. [SEP] Portia Nelson // "The Tibetan Book of Living and Dying" by Sogyal Rinpoche, as well as in the foreword of TV actress Roseanne Barr's autobiography, "My Lives". Jazz singer Dianne Reeves set the poem to music and recorded it as "The First Five Chapters" on her live CD "In the Moment" (2000). In the early 1990s, a bout with throat and tongue cancer – which Nelson, who never smoked, blamed on her years of singing in smoky nightclubs – robbed her of her soprano voice. Within a couple of years she had resumed singing in a low, husky speech-song style, while devoting more
Keanu Reeves supposedly wrote an inspiring open letter about life and loss that has gone viral online. [SEP] Fiona Sit // hit "Keanu Reeves Reply". The song "Keanu Reeves Reply" reached No. 1 in the four medium. She published her debut Photobook "F-Trip" and sold with her limited set of "Fileee Doll", later sold it in Animation-Comic-Game Hong Kong. It was sold out only after four days. Due to the success of "F Debut", Warner Music Hong Kong released "F Debut AVCD" on 5 May 2004. "F Debut AVCD" including her famous song "Keanu Reeves Reply" and another version which featured Aaron Kwok as Mr.K replied Miss F. As she became more well known in the entertainment industry, she shot many
Keanu Reeves supposedly wrote an inspiring open letter about life and loss that has gone viral online. [SEP] Alex Winter // said that he hoped the film would go into production in 2017. Reeves confirmed in February 2017 that the third film is being made, and the writers have a story. "Basically, they’re supposed to write a song to save the world and they haven’t done that" Reeves said about the plot of the movie. Winter’s 2012 VH1 Rock Doc "Downloaded" earned worldwide critical acclaim at theatrical and festival screenings. Winter's multiple award-winning 2015 documentary Deep Web, had its world premiere at SXSW and a broadcast premiere in the U.S. on the Epix network alongside a global festival tour. The film
Keanu Reeves supposedly wrote an inspiring open letter about life and loss that has gone viral online. [SEP] Craig Cardiff // year and wanting to take their own life. Just hard stuff. At the end of the night, I wrote a note back to them and later posted it online. A bunch of other people responded to it, and I feel like that idea carried over — as hard as it is to stay one more day, just don't make any big decisions tonight. Wait until tomorrow morning. That kept coming up [in my writing], being so inside of your head that it's all thinking and no feeling." One song, Memo, was written as a response to a heartbreaking entry shared
Keanu Reeves supposedly wrote an inspiring open letter about life and loss that has gone viral online. [SEP] An Open Letter to Honey Singh // An Open Letter to Honey Singh An Open Letter to Honey Singh is a 3.5-minute rap video featuring Rene Sharanya Verma, a student of St. Stephen's College, Delhi, performing at Café Zingo Star in Greater Kailash-II organised by Delhi Poetry Slam, an initiative that aims to "restore the art of spoken word into the everyday culture of the Capital". She performed before a 30-person audience. The subject of the slam was "Portrait of a Lady". The rap number was composed in one hour at the cafe. The video has been uploaded to YouTube using the handle "Delhi Poetry Slam". The
Influenza now in all Maine counties; considered widespread. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic in the United States by state // Center for Disease Control. The three adults, two from Kennebec County and one from York County, were reported to be recovering at home. Dr. Dora Anne Mills, former director of Maine CDC, said on April 28 that at least 12 suspected cases were being tested. Late on April 29, Maine Governor John Baldacci declared a "civil emergency" and ordered a school and daycare facility in York County to close for seven days. As of July 22, there have been 282 cases confirmed throughout Maine. As of November 26, 1562 confirmed cases, 97 hospitalized cases, and 9 deaths have been reported
Influenza now in all Maine counties; considered widespread. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic in the United States by state // every year from regular influenza. As of December 24, 2009, Maine was one of the only 7 states reporting widespread influenza activity, though Maine's influenza activity was declining as well. As of January 7, 2010, H1N1 activity has decreased from widespread to regional for the first time since October 17, 2009. Although H1N1 activity in Maine has declined for the time being, H1N1 continues to circulate in Maine. H1N1 could return later this year, so it is still very important to get vaccinated against A/H1N1 influenza, Dr. Dora Anne Mills says. So far, 18 deaths, 225 hospitalizations, and 2220 cases
Influenza now in all Maine counties; considered widespread. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic in the United States by state // have occurred in King County. 115 confirmed cases, one probable case, and one death have been reported in Snohomish County. Thirty-one confirmed cases have also been identified in Pierce County, while seven cases of swine flu have been confirmed in Clark County, bordering the city of Portland, Oregon. Thurston County and Yakima County have reported five cases each. Spokane County and Whatcom County have reported four cases each. Kitsap County and Mason County have each reported three cases. Two cases have been reported in Island County and Skagit County. One case each has been reported in Douglas County, Grays Harbor
Influenza now in all Maine counties; considered widespread. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic in the United States by state // rest having just a seasonal flu. H1N1 has been detected in 530 residents of Oregon as of July 24, 2009. Confirmed cases have been found in 21 out of 36 counties, including Benton County, Clackamas County, Clatsop County, Columbia County, Crook County, Deschutes County, Douglas County, Hood River County, Jackson County, Klamath County, Lane County, Lincoln County, Linn County, Marion County, Multnomah County, Polk County, Tillamook County, Umatilla County, Wasco County, Washington County, and Yamhill County. On June 8, 2009, Oregon's first H1N1-related death in Marion County was reported by the ODHS. Since then, five other deaths have been reported;
Influenza now in all Maine counties; considered widespread. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic in the United States by state // in Maine. Also, 172 schools have reported outbreaks of H1N1 since May, according to Dr. Dora Anne Mills and the Maine CDC. On December 2, 2009, it was announced that H1N1 has killed 2 more Mainers, bringing the death toll to 11. As of December 17, 2009, the Maine CDC states that although 203 Mainers have now been hospitalized and the death toll has risen to 17 in Maine, H1N1 flu activity is decreasing in Maine, and vaccine availability is increasing rapidly, so all Mainers can now get the vaccine. Dr. Dora Anne Mills reminded Mainers that 150 Mainers die
Influenza now in all Maine counties; considered widespread. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic in the United States by state // it was announced that a man from Snohomish County, in his thirties with a pre-existing heart condition and active viral pneumonia, became the third confirmed US death from swine flu-involved complications. As of January 23, there have been 1383 confirmed cases of H1N1N that required hospital care in the second wave of H1N1 (since September 19, 2009), and 76 deaths. On July 1, 2009, it was reported that the Tri-Cities had its first case of swine flu. On June 18, 2009, Grant County Health Department reported six cases of swine flu in Quincy. As of the evening of May 22,
Influenza now in all Maine counties; considered widespread. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic in the United States by state // another two in Marion County (June 15, 2009 and July 24, 2009) and three in Multnomah County (June 26, 2009, July 3, 2009, and July 17, 2009). On May 3, The Pennsylvania Department of Health said that a 31-year-old male in Montgomery County had the H1N1 flu. By May 5 probable cases were under investigation in Philadelphia (10), Bucks (2), Chester (2), Allegheny (1), Cambria (1), Franklin (1), Lehigh (1), Luzerne (1), Lycoming (1), Montgomery (1), and York (1) counties. On June 4, a 55-year-old woman in Berks County was confirmed as the first death in Pennsylvania due to swine
Influenza now in all Maine counties; considered widespread. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic in the United States by state // their states, however the CDC listed the case in Kentucky. In Jefferson County, Meyzeek Middle school has three cases of H1N1 influenza. This initially started from a staff member, but spread to students. As of July 21, there are a total of 232 swine flu cases confirmed by The Louisiana Department of Health and Hospitals. Up from 114 reported on May 28. As of January 2010, 1,973 confirmed cases of H1N1 have been reported, and 43 H1N1 deaths have been confirmed, in Louisiana. On April 29, three cases of H1N1 (swine flu) were confirmed in Maine, according to the Maine
Influenza now in all Maine counties; considered widespread. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic in the United States by state // County, Jefferson County, Kittitas County and Lewis County. An additional case, that of a cruise ship worker, is counted at the state level only. September 19, 2009, the Washington department of health stopped counting individual cases of A/H1N1 influenza, and only counting hospitalizations and deaths from A/H1N1. As of July 22, there have been 276 reported cases. In November 2009, it was confirmed a West Virginia pediatrician had confirmed A/H1N1 influenza twice, once in July, and again in October. This is very rare, but does occur sporadically, according to the CDC. As of July 22, 2009, Wisconsin has 5,147 confirmed
Influenza now in all Maine counties; considered widespread. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic in the United States by state // has confirmed 936 cases of swine flu and 480 probable cases, most of them within a range of 30 minutes of New York or Philadelphia. More swine flu cases are being reported daily, which has caused a widespread in the state. Counties currently confirmed with swine flu: Atlantic (20), Bergen (63), Burlington (64), Camden (35), Cape May (3), Cumberland (17), Essex (105), Gloucester (12), Hudson (85), Hunterdon(17), Mercer (47), Middlesex (115), Monmouth (60), Morris (45), Ocean (48), Passaic (63), Salem (3), Somerset (37), Sussex (13), Union (62), Warren (22), which indicates that currently 21 counties have confirmed cases of swine
Rolex sales records are so well-kept that they were used to solve an open homicide. [SEP] Rolex // and money laundering. When the body was found in the English Channel in 1996 by a fisherman named John Coprik, a Rolex wristwatch was the only identifiable object on the body. Since the Rolex movement had a serial number and was engraved with special markings every time it was serviced, British police traced the service records from Rolex and identified the owner of the watch as Ronald Platt. In addition, British police were able to determine the date of death by examining the date on the watch calendar. Since the Rolex movement was fully waterproof and had a reserve of
Rolex sales records are so well-kept that they were used to solve an open homicide. [SEP] Rolex // two to three days of operation when inactive, they were able to determine the time of death within a small margin of error. Rolex watches are frequently counterfeited, and these are often illegally sold on the street and online. Counterfeit Rolex watches vary in quality: some use the cheapest of movements, while others use automatic movements, and some use an ETA movement. However, the majority of these counterfeit watches are easily identifiable by jewellers and other experts. O. J. Simpson wore a counterfeit Rolex during his 1994 murder trial. Rolex SA is owned by the private Hans Wilsdorf Foundation, which
Rolex sales records are so well-kept that they were used to solve an open homicide. [SEP] Albert Johnson Walker // of money and returned to England in 1995. Walker took Platt out on a fishing trip 20 July 1996 where he murdered him, weighed him down with an anchor, and dumped his body in the sea. Two weeks later the body was discovered in the English Channel by fisherman John Copik with a Rolex wristwatch the only identifiable object on the body. Since the Rolex movement had a serial number and was engraved with special markings every time it was serviced, British police traced the service records from Rolex. Ronald Joseph Platt was identified as the owner of the watch
Rolex sales records are so well-kept that they were used to solve an open homicide. [SEP] Albert Johnson Walker // and the victim of the murder. In addition British police were able to determine the date of death by examining the date on the watch calendar and since the Rolex movement had a reserve of two to three days of operation when inactive and it was fully waterproof, they were able to determine the time of death within a small margin of error. Walker was apprehended shortly thereafter. In the spring of 1998, Walker's preliminary hearing was held in the village courtroom in Teignmouth, England. On 27 April 1998, Walker pleaded not guilty in his murder trial in the English
Rolex sales records are so well-kept that they were used to solve an open homicide. [SEP] Rolex // motor racing championship. Rolex has also been the official timekeeper to the Le Mans 24 Hours motor race since 2001. Jacques Piccard and Don Walsh had a specially designed experimental Rolex Oyster Perpetual Deep-Sea Special strapped to the outside of their bathyscaphe during the 1960 Challenger Deep / Mariana Trench dive to a world-record depth of . When James Cameron conducted a similar dive in 2012, a specially designed and manufactured Rolex Oyster Perpetual Sea-Dweller Deep Sea Challenge watch was being "worn" by his submarine's robotic arm. Ex-Formula 1 driver Sir Jackie Stewart has advertised Rolex since 1968. Others who
Rolex sales records are so well-kept that they were used to solve an open homicide. [SEP] Harold Shipman // in his computerised medical journal, but a program on his computer that recorded ghost actions showed they were written after her death. Shipman was arrested on 7 September 1998, and was found to own a typewriter of the kind used to make the forged will. The police then investigated other deaths Shipman had certified, and created a list of 15 specimen cases to investigate. They discovered a pattern of his administering lethal doses of diamorphine, signing patients' death certificates, and then falsifying medical records to indicate that they had been in poor health. "Prescription For Murder", a 2000 book by
Rolex sales records are so well-kept that they were used to solve an open homicide. [SEP] David Thai // accused of possessing 41 printing stamps which he allegedly used to alter 2000 wristwatches by imprinting them with brand names such as Rolex and Cartier. David moved to dismiss the charges, contending the fact that his possession of forgery devices fails to prove that he acted with the intent to defraud. Thai's motion to dismiss the charges however were denied. When David Thai was finally arrested on murder charges alongside several other indictments, he boasted on the TV program "48 Hours" that he made $13 million from the sale of counterfeit watches in 1988 alone. On the afternoon of August
Rolex sales records are so well-kept that they were used to solve an open homicide. [SEP] Rolex // to release helium gas build-up during decompression. The Explorer (1953) and Explorer II (1971) were developed specifically for explorers who would navigate rough terrain, such as the world-famous Mount Everest expeditions. Another iconic model is the Rolex GMT Master (1954), originally developed at the request of Pan Am Airways to provide its crews with a dual time watch that could be used to display GMT (Greenwich Mean Time), which was the international time standard for aviation at that time (and still is) and was needed for Astronavigation during longer flights. Rolex is the largest manufacturer of Swiss made certified chronometers.
Rolex sales records are so well-kept that they were used to solve an open homicide. [SEP] Rolex // US Open, three of the four Grand Slams. In golf, it is the official time keeper for two of the four majors, The Open Championship and the U.S. Open, as well as the PGA Tour and European Tour; the presenting sponsor for one of the five senior majors, The Senior Open Championship; and the official sponsor of the Women's World Golf Rankings. Rolex is the title sponsor to the 24 Hours of Daytona, from which the Daytona model takes its name, along with the Rolex Sports Car Series. In 2013, Rolex became the official timekeeper to the FIA Formula 1
Rolex sales records are so well-kept that they were used to solve an open homicide. [SEP] Thomas Bartlett Whitaker // lakeside townhouse in Willis, Texas and a $4,000 Rolex watch was given to him as a graduation present hours before the murders, despite the fact that he was not enrolled at college at the time. Whitaker also had access to an $80,000 trust fund from his grandparents, although he testified in court that he did not know he could access it. He had dropped out of university but did not notify his parents. On December 10, 2003, Whitaker falsely told his family that he had just taken his final exams and would soon be graduating from Sam Houston State University.
Pope Francis bestowed the Pontifical Medal upon Lilianne Ploumen, a Dutch pro-abortion activist. [SEP] Pope Francis // will be "marginalized or worse" if they speak out, and causing faithful Catholics to "lose confidence in their supreme shepherd". In 2017, Dutch politician Lilianne Ploumen was appointed as Dame Commander of the Order of St. Gregory the Great. Ploumen, who has been involved in promoting legislation supporting women's reproductive rights, stated that she believed the honor was given to her in the context of the Dutch state visit to the Vatican in June 2017 in her capacity as Minister of Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation. Paloma Garcia-Ovejero, deputy director of the Holy See Press Office, stated that "the honorific
Pope Francis bestowed the Pontifical Medal upon Lilianne Ploumen, a Dutch pro-abortion activist. [SEP] Pope Francis // of the St. Gregory the Great Pontifical Order that Liliane Ploumen, then Minister for Development received in June 2017, during the visit of the Dutch Royals to the Holy Father, is part of the diplomatic praxis of the exchange of decorations among delegations during official visits between heads of state and government to the Vatican.. [it] cannot be by any way considered an endorsement to the pro-abortion and birth control politics advocated by Mrs. Ploumen." In August 2018, 45 Catholic scholars, and clergy signed an appeal to the cardinals of the Catholic Church, calling on them to advise Pope Francis
Pope Francis bestowed the Pontifical Medal upon Lilianne Ploumen, a Dutch pro-abortion activist. [SEP] Lilianne Ploumen // about 50 countries, organizations and foundations to finance global family planning initiatives after a U.S. halt to such programs left NGOs worldwide with a large funding gap. Within six months the organization received pledges worth USD 300 million. As minister, she pledged 10 million euro to counter the Mexico City policy. Following the 2014 European elections, international news media widely considered Ploumen one of the candidates for the nomination to become the Netherlands’ member of the European Commission; the post eventually went to Frans Timmermans. In the Dutch elections in 2017, in which the PvdA won nine seats, Ploumen was
Pope Francis bestowed the Pontifical Medal upon Lilianne Ploumen, a Dutch pro-abortion activist. [SEP] Pontifical Academy for Life // Knight of the Knights of Columbus, and Cardinal Willem Eijk, Archbishop of Utrecht. The new member whose views were most at odds with Church teaching was Nigel Biggar of the University of Oxford who, though an opponent of assisted suicide legislation, once suggested abortion might be licit during the first eighteen weeks of a pregnancy. Some of those not reappointed had been among the more vocal critics of Paglia or known for their "combative tone", including Michel Schooyans, professor emeritus at the Catholic University of Louvain, and Luke Gormally, a former research professor at Ave Maria School of Law. Members
Pope Francis bestowed the Pontifical Medal upon Lilianne Ploumen, a Dutch pro-abortion activist. [SEP] Maria Cristina Giongo // of his beatification. She also wrote an article on the marriage of the heir to the Dutch throne Prince Willem-Alexander and Princess Máxima, as well as an article on the ordination of King Willem-Alexander and Queen Máxima. Won in Otranto (Puglia) the Salento award - Journalists of the Mediterranean – section terrorism, September 11, 2016, for the article published in the newspaper Libero: 'I had to kill mom and sister to save them from ISIS'. As a member of Pro Petri Sede Benelux she met Pope Francis on February 10, 2016 and from His hands she received the pontifical medal
Pope Francis bestowed the Pontifical Medal upon Lilianne Ploumen, a Dutch pro-abortion activist. [SEP] Maurice Vellacott // recognize these two women, Vellacott released a statement that referred to them as "heroines of humanity", and justified his decision by stating: "It's a pretty upside down world when we honour abortionists like Henry Morgentaler for killing over 5,000 babies and imprison precious women, like Mary Wagner and Linda Gibbons, who try to save babies from such savagery. They are the real heroes of humanity!" Vellacott's decision to bestow the Queen's Jubilee Medal on Gibbon and Wagner has been praised by pro-life groups such as the Campaign Life Coalition, and the Catholic Register. Interim Liberal leader Bob Rae criticized Vellacott's
Pope Francis bestowed the Pontifical Medal upon Lilianne Ploumen, a Dutch pro-abortion activist. [SEP] Operation Rescue (Kansas) // leads to a criminal conviction of what it describes as "abortionists". The first award was given in 2011 to a former employee at an abortion clinic. The Malachi Award is an annual award given for service to the pro-life movement. It is named after a fetus discovered outside of an abortion clinic in Texas. The name means "my messenger" and was given to the fetus by the executive secretary of New York Lambs of Christ. Randall Terry filed a lawsuit against Troy Newman in 2008, alleging misuse of the name "Operation Rescue." Former Rescue leaders, including Keith Tucci (director), Patrick
Pope Francis bestowed the Pontifical Medal upon Lilianne Ploumen, a Dutch pro-abortion activist. [SEP] Lilianne Ploumen // Lilianne Ploumen Elisabeth Maria Josepha "Lilianne" Ploumen (; born 12 July 1962) is a Dutch politician of the Labour Party (PvdA). She was Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation in the second Rutte cabinet from 5 November 2012 to 26 October 2017. She previously was Chairwoman of the Labour Party (2007–2012). Elisabeth Maria Josepha Ploumen was born in Maastricht in the Netherlands on 12 July 1962. Ploumen studied social history at Erasmus University Rotterdam. In 1983, while still at university, Ploumen became a community outreach worker in the Crooswijk area of Rotterdam. Two years later she joined the Institute
Pope Francis bestowed the Pontifical Medal upon Lilianne Ploumen, a Dutch pro-abortion activist. [SEP] Carl A. Anderson // and 2015 by Ethisphere. He was awarded the Order of Merit from the government of Poland and the "Evangelium Vitae" Medal from the University of Notre Dame in 2015. He has received the Patronal Medal of the Basilica of the National Shrine of the Immaculate Conception for his "distinguished service in the advancement of Marian devotion;" the Archdiocese of Denver's "Imago Dei" Award; the Becket Fund for Religious Liberty's Canterbury Medal; the Path to Peace Foundation's Servant of Peace Award; the Pontifical North American College's Rector's Award; the Sisters of Life John Cardinal O'Connor Award, and the Gold Palm of
Pope Francis bestowed the Pontifical Medal upon Lilianne Ploumen, a Dutch pro-abortion activist. [SEP] Hilligje Kok-Bisschop // Hilligje Kok-Bisschop Hilligje Kok-Bisschop (born 1948) is a Netherlands activist from Staphorst for emancipation of orthodox Christian women. On 26 April 2013 she received the Order of Orange-Nassau for her work advocating the rights of women in the Dutch orthodox Christian community. She had previously been shunned from her local church for lobbying in The Hague for female representation in the Christian party SGP. She received the award thanks to a documentary made about her by the Dutch filmmaker Emile van Rouveroy van Nieuwaal, who himself was awarded the same order on 24 April 2015, mostly for his documentaries based
Tuberculosis outbreak associated with Mankato university. [SEP] Ruth Boynton // year she treated patients during serious outbreaks of scarlet fever and influenza. She saw patients with a wide variety of diseases, including tuberculosis. Over the years, tuberculosis became a major focus of her research and publications. Boynton was Director of the Minnesota Department of Health Division of Child Hygiene from 1923 to 1927. She also spent one year at the University of Chicago, from 1927 to 1928, as the Chief Medical Advisor for Women and Assistant Professor of Medicine. In 1929, she returned to the U of M for the rest of her career. When Diehl was made dean of
Tuberculosis outbreak associated with Mankato university. [SEP] Dorothy Yeboah-Manu // Faculty of the World Bank Centre of Excellence funded West African Centre for Cell Biology of Infectious Pathogens. She is a member of the boards of the International Union Against Tuberculosis and Lung Disease, the World Health Organization Global Network of Laboratories Confirming "Mycobacterium ulcerans" Infection and the National Buruli Ulcer Control Program. She is chair of the advisory board of the National Tuberculosis Program. She is Vice President of the Immunological Society of Ghana. She has contributed to two books: "Towards Effective Disease Control in Ghana: Research and Policy Implications" Volume 1, "Malaria" and Volume 2, "Other Infectious Diseases
Tuberculosis outbreak associated with Mankato university. [SEP] Minnesota State University, Mankato // State University. Minnesota State University, Mankato Minnesota State University, Mankato (MSU or MNSU), also known as Minnesota State, is a public comprehensive university located in Mankato, Minnesota. The university sits atop the bluff of the Blue Earth River valley, approximately southwest of Minneapolis-St. Paul. Established in law as the Second State Normal School in 1858, it was designated in Mankato in 1866, and officially opened as Mankato Normal School in 1868. It is the second oldest member of the Minnesota State Colleges and Universities system. It is also the second largest public university in the state, and has over 123,000
Tuberculosis outbreak associated with Mankato university. [SEP] Minnesota State University, Mankato // Minnesota State University, Mankato Minnesota State University, Mankato (MSU or MNSU), also known as Minnesota State, is a public comprehensive university located in Mankato, Minnesota. The university sits atop the bluff of the Blue Earth River valley, approximately southwest of Minneapolis-St. Paul. Established in law as the Second State Normal School in 1858, it was designated in Mankato in 1866, and officially opened as Mankato Normal School in 1868. It is the second oldest member of the Minnesota State Colleges and Universities system. It is also the second largest public university in the state, and has over 123,000 living alumni
Tuberculosis outbreak associated with Mankato university. [SEP] National Tuberculosis Institute // the cause and, as a result, NTIB was established in 1959, on a property, "Avalon", donated by the then Maharajah of Mysore. The technical assistance was provided by the World Health Organization and the Institute procured the equipment through UNICEF assistance. The Institute has, ever since, been active in research projects and studies and has been successful in formulating a "TB Control Program" for the country which incorporates the clinical, epidemiological and sociological aspects of the disease. It is involved in activities such as training of medical and paramedical staff and personnel across the country, formulating policies and programs in
Tuberculosis outbreak associated with Mankato university. [SEP] Tuberculosis // kansasii". The latter two species are classified as "nontuberculous mycobacteria" (NTM). NTM cause neither TB nor leprosy, but they do cause lung diseases that resemble TB. A number of factors make people more susceptible to TB infections. The most important risk factor globally is HIV; 13% of all people with TB are infected by the virus. This is a particular problem in sub-Saharan Africa, where rates of HIV are high. Of people without HIV who are infected with tuberculosis, about 5–10% develop active disease during their lifetimes; in contrast, 30% of those coinfected with HIV develop the active disease. Tuberculosis
Tuberculosis outbreak associated with Mankato university. [SEP] Kansas State University // unites biosecurity researchers with federal, state and local agencies to provide a response to emerging agricultural threats. Following the NBAF decision, leaders at two additional federal facilities announced they are coming to K-State. The Arthropod-Borne Animal Disease Research Unit, or ABADRU, specializes in animal and plant diseases transmitted by insects. The lab relocated from Laramie, Wyo., to K-State in order to fully realize its research mandate. The Center of Excellence for Emerging and Zoonotic Animal Diseases, or CEEZAD, will research foreign animal, zoonotic and newly discovered pathogens that can have a consequential economic impact on U.S. agriculture, homeland security and
Tuberculosis outbreak associated with Mankato university. [SEP] Minnesota State University, Mankato // extension programs on providing education to members of the Works Progress Administration and Naval Corps. During the post World War II period, student enrollment expanded greatly. The original university buildings were then located in what was known as the Valley Campus. It was located geographically down the hill in lower Mankato. The size and footprint of the Valley Campus could not sustain the space needed to handle the growing student body. By the late 1950s work began on constructing an entirely new, modern campus atop the river valley bluff. This became the Highland Campus. A new experimental school called the
Tuberculosis outbreak associated with Mankato university. [SEP] New Delhi metallo-beta-lactamase 1 // also found in an "K. pneumoniae" isolate from Croatia, and the patient arrived from Bosnia and Herzegovina. The second geographical origin is considered to be eastern Balkans. In May 2010, a case of infection with "E. coli" expressing NDM-1 was reported in Coventry in the United Kingdom. The patient was a man of Indian origin who had visited India 18 months previously, where he had undergone dialysis. In initial assays the bacterium was fully resistant to all antibiotics tested, while later tests found that it was susceptible to tigecycline and colistin. The authors warned that international travel and patients' use
Tuberculosis outbreak associated with Mankato university. [SEP] University of Saskatchewan // with another allocated for Innovation Place Research Park. The University of Saskatchewan agriculture college still has access to neighbouring urban research lands. The University of Saskatchewan's Vaccine and Infectious Disease Organization (VIDO) facility, (2003) develops DNA-enhanced immunization vaccines for both humans and animals. The University is also home to the Canadian Light Source synchrotron, which is considered one of the largest and most innovative investments in Canadian science. Since its origins as an agricultural college, research has played an important role at the university. Discoveries made at the U of S include sulphate-resistant cement and the cobalt-60 cancer therapy unit.
The U.S. has had 143 criminal convictions for absentee-ballot fraud (or .0006% of the total vote) over the past 20 years. [SEP] Voter impersonation (United States) // in Miami eighteen people were arrested for absentee ballot fraud (not voter impersonation) in the mayoral election. Over a recent fourteen-year period, there were only thirty-one documented cases of voter impersonation. There is no evidence that it has changed the result of any election. According to a 2012 Pew Research Center (Pew) report, which Donald Trump has cited as proof of voter fraud, millions of voter registration records were out of date as people were either deceased or had moved. In November 2016, the former Pew research director confirmed that even with the out-dated data, there was no evidence of
The U.S. has had 143 criminal convictions for absentee-ballot fraud (or .0006% of the total vote) over the past 20 years. [SEP] Postal voting // mail elections, were inherently safer than electronic voting systems. In Texas, some electoral fraud has occurred over the years involving political operatives illegally aiding those eligible to vote by mail, usually voters over 65 years of age or voters with a disability. The overall rates of voter fraud are estimated to be low, with one study finding 2,068 cases of alleged voter fraud in the U.S. since 2000. In Oregon, where approximately 100 million ballots have been cast since the state went to 100% vote by mail in 2000, about 12 cases of voter fraud have been prosecuted. In 1998,
The U.S. has had 143 criminal convictions for absentee-ballot fraud (or .0006% of the total vote) over the past 20 years. [SEP] 2014 United States elections // on 19 voting fraud charges, specifically "eight counts of fraudulent voting, 10 counts of primary or enrollment violations and one count of tampering with or fabricating physical evidence." In September 2015 she pleaded guilty to state election law violations, received a one-year sentence (suspended) along with two years 'conditional discharge', and agreed not to seek elective office for two years. Her mother, Democratic Registrar of Voters Santa Ayala, was also the subject of an investigation in the case, but was not charged. California State Senator Roderick Wright (Democrat) resigned from office in September 2014 and was sentenced to 90 days
The U.S. has had 143 criminal convictions for absentee-ballot fraud (or .0006% of the total vote) over the past 20 years. [SEP] 1960 United States presidential election // case brought charges against 650 people, which did not result in convictions. Three Chicago election workers were convicted of voter fraud in 1962 and served short terms in jail. Mazo, the "Herald-Tribune" reporter, later said that he "found names of the dead who had voted in Chicago, along with 56 people from one house." He found cases of Republican voter fraud in southern Illinois, but said that the totals "did not match the Chicago fraud he found." After Mazo had published four parts of an intended 12-part voter fraud series documenting his findings, which was re-published nationally, he said, "Nixon
The U.S. has had 143 criminal convictions for absentee-ballot fraud (or .0006% of the total vote) over the past 20 years. [SEP] Dismissed U.S. attorneys summary // prosecutions in New Mexico history, a record number of overall prosecutions and a 95 percent conviction rate. (In one of the documents released this week, I was deemed a "diverse up and comer" in 2004. Two years later I was asked to resign with no reasons given.)...[the fired U.S. attorneys] had apparently been singled out for political reasons." In addition, Iglesias responded to critics about his failure to pursue voter fraud cases: "As this story has unfolded these last few weeks, much has been made of my decision to not prosecute alleged voter fraud in New Mexico. Without the benefit
The U.S. has had 143 criminal convictions for absentee-ballot fraud (or .0006% of the total vote) over the past 20 years. [SEP] Presidential Advisory Commission on Election Integrity // voter impersonation. Research and evidence show that voter impersonation is extremely rare. There is no evidence that in-person voter fraud has changed the result of any election. In a few cases, permanent residents ("green card" holders) have registered to vote and have cast ballots without realizing that doing so was illegal. Non-citizens convicted in criminal court of having made a false claim of citizenship for the purpose of registering to vote in a federal election can be fined and imprisoned for up to a year. Deportation and removal proceedings have resulted from several such cases. In an analysis by the
The U.S. has had 143 criminal convictions for absentee-ballot fraud (or .0006% of the total vote) over the past 20 years. [SEP] Voter suppression in the United States // The calls reached 112,000 voters in majority-African American areas. In 2011, Ehrlich's campaign manager, Paul Schurick, was convicted of fraud and other charges because of the calls. In 2012, he was sentenced to 30 days of home detention, a one-year suspended jail sentence, and 500 hours of community service over the four years of his probation, with no fine or jail time. The Democratic candidate won by a margin of more than 10 percent. A law was passed in 2011 by the Florida legislature which reduced the days available for early voting, barred voter-registration activities of groups like the League
The U.S. has had 143 criminal convictions for absentee-ballot fraud (or .0006% of the total vote) over the past 20 years. [SEP] Presidential Advisory Commission on Election Integrity // Brennan Center for Justice at the New York University School of Law looked at 42 jurisdictions, focusing on ones with large population of noncitizens. Of 23.5 million votes surveyed, election officials referred an estimated 30 incidents of suspected noncitizen voting for further investigation, or about 0.0001% of votes cast. Douglas Keith, the counsel in the Brennan Center's Democracy Program and co-author of the analysis, said, "President Trump has said repeatedly that millions of people voted illegally in 2016, but our interviews with local election administrators made clear that rampant noncitizen voting simply did not occur. Any claims to the contrary
The U.S. has had 143 criminal convictions for absentee-ballot fraud (or .0006% of the total vote) over the past 20 years. [SEP] Electoral fraud // have been blocked by the voter ID law. The investigation found fewer than 500 incidences of invalid ballots cast, the vast majority of which were cast by individuals on probation for felony who were likely not aware that this status disqualified them from voting, and the total amount of invalid votes was far too small to have affected the outcome of any race in North Carolina in the 2016 election. In particularly corrupt regimes, the voting process may be nothing more than a sham, as officials would simply announce whatever results they want, sometimes without even bothering to count the
The U.S. has had 143 criminal convictions for absentee-ballot fraud (or .0006% of the total vote) over the past 20 years. [SEP] Voter suppression in the United States // voter fraud is low. In Iowa, lawmakers passed a strict voter ID law with the potential to disenfranchise 260,000 voters. Out of 1.6 million votes cast in Iowa in 2016, there were only 10 allegations of voter fraud; none were cases of impersonation that a voter ID law could have prevented. Only one person, a Republican voter, was convicted. Iowa Secretary of State Paul Pate, the architect of the bill, admitted, "We've not experienced widespread voter fraud in Iowa." In 2018, critics have accused the state of intentionally disenfranchising non-white voters,aided by the Supreme Court which, in its Shelby County
Ecstasy could be ‘breakthrough’ therapy for soldiers, others suffering from PTSD [SEP] MDMA // efficacy. This review and a second corroborating review by a different author both concluded that, because of MDMA's demonstrated potential to cause lasting harm in humans (e.g., serotonergic neurotoxicity and persistent memory impairment), "considerably more research must be performed" on its efficacy in PTSD treatment to determine if the potential treatment benefits outweigh its potential to harm to a patient. MDMA 3,4-Methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA), commonly known as ecstasy (E), is a psychoactive drug primarily used as a recreational drug. The desired effects include altered sensations and increased energy, empathy, and pleasure. When taken by mouth, effects begin after 30–45 minutes and
Ecstasy could be ‘breakthrough’ therapy for soldiers, others suffering from PTSD [SEP] Spring Grove Experiment // In 2013, studies were being done on patients experiencing Post Traumatic Stress Disorder combining MDMA and psychotherapy; and in 2016, an article was released announcing the FDA’s approval of clinical studies supporting further experiments to devise a drug for treatment of PTSD. Dr. Kurland's initial hopes to produce "effective therapies that will heal – more quickly and comfortably – the psychic wounds that leave so many people handicapped and alienated" remain. Spring Grove Experiment The Spring Grove Experiment is a series of lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD) studies performed from 1963 to 1976 on patients with psychotic illnesses at the Spring
Ecstasy could be ‘breakthrough’ therapy for soldiers, others suffering from PTSD [SEP] David Jay Brown // as "smart drugs". Brown said Montel Williams did not want to hear about any notional "smart" use of drugs and instead warned his viewers against methamphetamines. Brown claims that MDMA, an illegal psychoactive drug popularly known as "ecstasy", may be a useful treatment for posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD). Brown wrote in "Discover" in 2009 and in "Scientific American" in 2010 that a study by Michael and Annie Mithoefer showed potential for mitigating the suffering of chronic PTSD. Brown is the author of a popular book on lucid dreaming, Dreaming Wide Awake: Lucid Dreaming, Psychedelics, and Shamanic Healing, and has been
Ecstasy could be ‘breakthrough’ therapy for soldiers, others suffering from PTSD [SEP] The Role of Serotonin in Visual Orientation Processing // that serotonin has on the visual system and to what degree MDMA neurotoxicity affects the brain. Ecstasy is the street name that refers to the popular recreational drug that contains 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA). The now frequently used drug in the rave and club scene was first synthesized by Merck, a German pharmaceutical company that was investigating the development of new medications in the early 1900s. Since its development, it has undergone various phases, from controversially being used as a therapeutic aid in the 1970s, to being banned in the 1980s after the Drug Enforcement Administration concluded that it was addictive. During
Ecstasy could be ‘breakthrough’ therapy for soldiers, others suffering from PTSD [SEP] Ecstatic dance // ecstasy "in the experience of seizure and rapture". The religious historian Mircea Eliade stated that shamans use dance, repetitive music, fasting, and hallucinogenic drugs to induce ecstasy. The ethnologist Maria-Gabriela Wosien identified four degrees of ecstasy that dancers may experience: "the warning, the whisper of inspiration, the prophecy, and finally the gift, the highest grade of inspiration." The described effects of ecstatic dance include a feeling of connection with others, indeed of "universal relatedness", and with the dancer's own emotions; serving as a meditation, providing a way of coping with stress and restoring serenity; and serving as a spiritual practice.
Ecstasy could be ‘breakthrough’ therapy for soldiers, others suffering from PTSD [SEP] MDMA // MDMA 3,4-Methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA), commonly known as ecstasy (E), is a psychoactive drug primarily used as a recreational drug. The desired effects include altered sensations and increased energy, empathy, and pleasure. When taken by mouth, effects begin after 30–45 minutes and last 3–6 hours. Adverse effects include addiction, memory problems, paranoia, difficulty sleeping, teeth grinding, blurred vision, sweating, and a rapid heartbeat. Deaths have been reported due to increased body temperature and dehydration. Following use people often feel depressed and tired. MDMA acts primarily by increasing the activity of the neurotransmitters serotonin, dopamine, and noradrenaline in parts of the brain. It
Ecstasy could be ‘breakthrough’ therapy for soldiers, others suffering from PTSD [SEP] MDMA // The Multidisciplinary Association for Psychedelic Studies (MAPS) is funding pilot studies and clinical trials investigating the use of MDMA in psychotherapy to treat posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD), social anxiety in autistic adults, and anxiety in terminal illness. In November 2016, the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved large-scale phase 3 clinical trials involving the use of MDMA for the treatment of PTSD in individuals who do not respond to traditional prescription drugs or psychotherapy. MDMA has also been proposed as an adjunct to substance abuse treatment. In 2017, doctors in the UK began the first clinical study of
Ecstasy could be ‘breakthrough’ therapy for soldiers, others suffering from PTSD [SEP] Retracted article on dopaminergic neurotoxicity of MDMA // research in this issue" section of the 27 September 2002 issue of "Science". The short editorial commentary on the article was called "More Dangers from Designer Drugs" and drew the reader's attention to previously published research indicating that "ecstasy" use alters serotoninergic synaptic transmission. "Science" also commented that by linking "ecstasy" to dopaminergic neurotoxicity in monkeys, the Ricaurte article suggested that recreational users of "ecstasy" might be putting themselves at risk for developing neuropsychiatric disorders (such as Parkinson's disease) that are related to dopamine dysfunction. The "Science" section called "News of the Week" in the 27 September 2002 issue had
Ecstasy could be ‘breakthrough’ therapy for soldiers, others suffering from PTSD [SEP] MDMA // entheogen to enhance prayer or meditation by some religious practitioners. MDMA has been used as an adjunct to New Age spiritual practices. MDMA has become widely known as ecstasy (shortened "E", "X", or "XTC"), usually referring to its tablet form, although this term may also include the presence of possible adulterants or dilutants. The UK term "mandy" and the US term "molly" colloquially refer to MDMA in a crystalline powder form that is thought to be free of adulterants. MDMA is also sold in the form of the hydrochloride salt, either as loose crystals or in gelcaps. In part due
Ecstasy could be ‘breakthrough’ therapy for soldiers, others suffering from PTSD [SEP] MDMA // belongs to the substituted amphetamine classes of drugs and has stimulant and hallucinogenic effects. MDMA is illegal in most countries and, as of 2018, has no approved medical uses. Limited exceptions are sometimes made for research. Researchers are investigating whether MDMA may assist in treating severe, treatment-resistant posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) with phase 3 clinical trials to look at effectiveness and safety expected to begin in 2018. In 2017 the FDA granted MDMA a breakthrough therapy designation for PTSD, meaning if studies show promise, a review for potential medical use could occur more quickly. MDMA was first made in 1912.
Chelation based on faulty premise [SEP] Chelation therapy // PVD." The same critics argued that methodological flaws and lack of prior probability made the trial "unethical, dangerous, pointless, and wasteful." The American College of Cardiology supported the trial and research to explore whether chelation therapy was effective in treating heart disease. Evidence of insurance fraud and other felony convictions among (chelation proponent) investigators further undermined the credibility of the trial. Quackwatch says that autism is one of the conditions for which chelation therapy has been falsely promoted as effective, and practitioners falsify diagnoses of metal poisoning to "trick" parents into having their children undergo the risky process. , up
Chelation based on faulty premise [SEP] Doctor's Data // as having toxic metal poisoning based on their urinalysis tests, and then prescribing them chelation therapy. According to Patricia Callahan, the problem with these tests and the way they are interpreted is that, after administering a chelator to their patients, "Doctor's Data...compared those drug-provoked results to a reference range calculated for people who had never been given a chelation drug." In addition, they have faced considerable criticism from Stephen Barrett, who has described how provoked urine test reports are used to mislead patients. and has also written negatively about hair analysis in general, which he contends is "unscientific, economically wasteful,
Chelation based on faulty premise [SEP] Chelation therapy // cancer. Chelation therapy can be toxic and has the potential to cause kidney damage, irregular heartbeat, and even death." The U.S. National Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine (NCCAM) conducted a trial on the chelation therapy's safety and efficacy for patients with coronary artery disease. NCCAM Director Stephen E. Straus cited the "widespread use of chelation therapy in lieu of established therapies, the lack of adequate prior research to verify its safety and effectiveness, and the overall impact of coronary artery disease" as factors motivating the trial. The study has been criticized by some who said it was unethical, unnecessary
Chelation based on faulty premise [SEP] Chelation // of the tooth and generated very weak water resistance chemical bonding (2–3 MPa). Chelation therapy is used as antidotes for poisoning by mercury, arsenic, and lead. Chelating agents convert these metal ions into a chemically and biochemically inert form that can be excreted. Chelation using calcium disodium EDTA has been approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for serious cases of lead poisoning. It is not approved for treating "heavy metal toxicity". Although beneficial in cases of serious lead poisoning, use of disodium EDTA (edetate disodium) instead of calcium disodium EDTA has resulted in fatalities due to hypocalcemia.
Chelation based on faulty premise [SEP] Chelation therapy // making unsubstantiated advertising claims that chelation therapy is effective against atherosclerosis or any other disease of the circulatory system. In August 2005, doctor error led to the death of a five-year-old autistic boy who was undergoing chelation therapy. Others, including a three-year-old nonautistic girl and a nonautistic adult, have died while undergoing chelation therapy. These deaths were due to cardiac arrest caused by hypocalcemia during chelation therapy. In two of the cases hypocalcemia appears to have been caused by the administration of Na2EDTA (disodium EDTA) and in the third case the type of EDTA was unknown. Only the 3-year-old girl
Chelation based on faulty premise [SEP] Chelation therapy // Drug Administration (FDA), the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and the American College of Cardiology "all agree with the American Heart Association" that "there have been no adequate, controlled, published scientific studies using currently approved scientific methodology to support this therapy for cardiovascular disease." They speculate that any improvement among heart patients undergoing chelation therapy can be attributed to the placebo effect and generally recommended lifestyle changes such as "quitting smoking, losing weight, eating more fruits and vegetables, avoiding foods high in saturated fats and exercising regularly." They also are concerned that patients could put off proven treatments for heart
Chelation based on faulty premise [SEP] Jenny McCarthy // don't work for others. ... When something didn't work for Evan, I didn't stop. I stopped that treatment, but I didn't stop." McCarthy has stated on talk shows and at rallies that chelation therapy helped her son recover from autism. The underlying rationale for chelation, the speculation that mercury in vaccines causes autism, has been roundly rejected by scientific studies, with the National Institute of Mental Health concluding that children with autism are unlikely to receive any benefit to balance the risks of heart attack, stroke and cardiac arrest posed by the chelating agents used in the treatment. McCarthy's public
Chelation based on faulty premise [SEP] Chelation therapy // various health organizations have confirmed that medical evidence does not support the effectiveness of chelation therapy for any purpose other than the treatment of heavy metal poisoning. Over-the-counter chelation products are not approved for sale in the United States. Chelation therapy is the preferred medical treatment for metal poisoning, including acute mercury, iron (including in cases of sickle-cell disease and thalassemia), arsenic, lead, uranium, plutonium and other forms of toxic metal poisoning. The chelating agent may be administered intravenously, intramuscularly, or orally, depending on the agent and the type of poisoning. There are a variety of common chelating agents with
Chelation based on faulty premise [SEP] Metal toxicity // should be validated with tests done in appropriate biological samples. Chelation therapy is administered under very careful medical supervision due to various inherent risks. Even when the therapy is administered properly, the chelation drugs can have significant side effects. Chelation administered inappropriately can cause neurodevelopmental toxicity, increase risk of developing cancer, and cause death; chelation also removes essential metal elements and requires measures to prevent their loss. Aluminium has no known biological role and its classification into toxic metals is controversial. Acute aluminium phosphide poisoning (AAlPP) is a large, though under-reported, problem in the Indian subcontinent. Aluminium phosphide (AlP), which
Chelation based on faulty premise [SEP] Chelation therapy // had found to have an elevated blood lead level and resulting low iron levels and anemia, which is the conventional medical cause for administration of chelation therapy. According to protocol, EDTA should not be used in the treatment of children. More than 30 deaths have been recorded in association with IV-administered disodium EDTA since the 1970s. In alternative medicine, some practitioners claim chelation therapy can treat a variety of ailments, including heart disease and autism. The use of chelation therapy by alternative medicine practitioners for behavioral and other disorders is considered pseudoscientific; there is no proof that it is effective.
Global coronavirus death toll hits 150,000: Reuters tally. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // 73 to 85 years, but they have all chronic diseases." With this announcement, the unofficial global case count reached 49 while the death toll stands at 24 according to the CDC. As of 26 June 34 deaths have been recorded in the kingdom. On 1 August 2013, the World Health Organization announced three new MERS-CoV cases in that Saudi Arabia, all of them in women, two of whom were healthcare workers. "With the three new cases, Saudi Arabia's posted MERS tally increases to 74 cases with 39 deaths. The cases raise the WHO's MERS count to 94 cases and 46
Global coronavirus death toll hits 150,000: Reuters tally. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // MERS had infected at least 60 people with cases reported in Jordan, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates (UAE), Tunisia, Germany, the United Kingdom (UK), France and Italy, with a death toll of 38. Saudi officials expressed great concern that millions of Muslims from around the world would potentially be exposed to the virus during the autumn Hajj, or pilgrimage to Mecca. In May 2014, the WHO said it was monitoring the situation as global cases of MERS appeared to be on the rise, but said the situation did not yet constitute a health emergency. On 3 June 2014,
Global coronavirus death toll hits 150,000: Reuters tally. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // and from that family at least one additional person presented similar symptoms but tested negative for the novel coronavirus. On 21 February 2013, WHO stated that there had been 13 laboratory-confirmed cases, 6 cases (4 fatal) from Saudi Arabia, 2 cases (both fatal) from Jordan, 2 cases from Qatar, and 3 from the UK. In March 2013, the Saudi Arabia Ministry of Health reported the death of a 39-year-old man, the 15th case and 9th death reported to WHO. On 2 May 2013, the Saudi Ministry of Health announced five people died and two other people were in critical condition
Global coronavirus death toll hits 150,000: Reuters tally. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // have been at least 3800 quarantined. On 16 April 2014, Malaysia reported its first MERS-COV related death. The person was a 54-year-old man who had traveled to Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, together with pilgrimage group composed of 18 people, from 15–28 March 2014. He became ill by 4 April, and sought remedy at a clinic in Johor on 7 April. He was hospitalized by 9 April and died on 13 April. On May 11, 2014, two persons on Medan were suspected infected by MERS-Cov (Middle Eastern Respiratory Syndrome-Corona Virus). On 31 October 2013, the World Health Organization (WHO) confirmed that one
Global coronavirus death toll hits 150,000: Reuters tally. [SEP] Coronavirus // 2013, a case of contamination from human to human in France was confirmed by the French Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. In addition, cases of person-to-person transmission have been reported by the Ministry of Health in Tunisia. Two confirmed cases seem to have caught the disease from their late father, who became ill after a visit to Qatar and Saudi Arabia. By Oct. 30 2013, there were 124 cases and 52 deaths in Saudi Arabia. After the Dutch Erasmus Medical Centre sequenced the virus, the virus was given a new name, Human Corona Virus-Erasmus Medical Centre (HCoV-EMC). The final
Global coronavirus death toll hits 150,000: Reuters tally. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // United Kingdom, France, Germany, and the United Arab Emirates. According to a European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) publication, on April 2014, Tunisia had a total of 3 cases with 1 fatality. In May 2015, the first case in South Korea was confirmed in a man who had visited several Middle Eastern countries. As of 16 June 2015, a total of 150 cases has been infected, including 18 deaths, according to the World Health Organization (WHO). As of 29 June 2015, 32 people in South Korea have died from this outbreak, with 182 confirmed cases of infection. There
Global coronavirus death toll hits 150,000: Reuters tally. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // Saudi Arabia revised the country's total cases of MERS to date to 688 cases after re-examining the data as part of an effort to better understand the disease. A total of 282 people had died from MERS. The numbers represented a jump of 113 cases and 92 deaths. Despite the jump in reported cases, the number of new cases was on the decline according to Tariq Madany, head of the medical advisory council. At the same time, the Saudi deputy health minister was fired, the second high level health official fired within two months. On 4 June 2014, a study
Global coronavirus death toll hits 150,000: Reuters tally. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // deaths." On 31 October 2013, the WHO announced that three patients in Saudi Arabia died of MERS. The patients were one woman and two men and "all had underlying medical conditions but all reported having had no contact with animals before falling ill". Early of 23 April 2014, 11 new cases including a first case for Mecca were reported by the Health Ministry. An additional 13 cases were reported on the same day. With the additional reported cases, there are now a total of 285 cases with 83 deaths in the Kingdom. A hospital-related outbreak in Riyadh brought the total
Global coronavirus death toll hits 150,000: Reuters tally. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // 2013, the Coronavirus Study Group of the International Committee on Taxonomy of Viruses adopted the official designation, the Middle East Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus (MERS-CoV). which was adopted by the World Health Organization to "provide uniformity and facilitate communication about the disease" By May 2013, 10 of the 22 people who died and 22 of 44 cases reported were in Saudi Arabia and over 80% were male. This gender disparity is thought to be because most women in Saudi Arabia wear veils that cover the mouth and nose, decreasing their chances of being exposed to the virus. By 19 June 2013,
Global coronavirus death toll hits 150,000: Reuters tally. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // government, in November 2013, reported a woman in Spain, who had recently traveled to Saudi Arabia for the Islamic pilgrimage, contracted the disease. On 14 April 2014, one Filipino paramedic died in the United Arab Emirates, with six other reported to be infected with the virus. On 17 April, the UAE Ministry of Health reported another fatality and four additional cases, including the Filipino medical worker who travelled to the Philippines on 16 April. On 21 April 2014, the Health Ministry of UAE reported an additional 9 cases. In April 2012, six hospital workers were diagnosed with acute respiratory failure
Facebook post Says Italian Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte said, “We have lost control, we have killed the epidemic physically and mentally. Can’t understand what more we can do, all solutions are exhausted on ground. Our only hope remains up in the Sky, God rescue your people.” [SEP] Paolo Gentiloni // Roberto Fico (M5S) and Maria Elisabetta Alberti Casellati (FI), Gentiloni resigned his post to President Mattarella; however he remained in office until 1 June, when Giuseppe Conte was sworn in as the new Prime Minister, at the head of a populist coalition composed by the M5S and the League. On 19 May 2017, the Council of Ministers, on the proposal of Prime Minister Gentiloni and Health Minister Beatrice Lorenzin, approved a decree law containing urgent vaccine prevention measures that reintroduced the mandatory vaccination, bringing the number of mandatory vaccines from 4 to 12 and not allowing those who have not
Facebook post Says Italian Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte said, “We have lost control, we have killed the epidemic physically and mentally. Can’t understand what more we can do, all solutions are exhausted on ground. Our only hope remains up in the Sky, God rescue your people.” [SEP] Costa Concordia disaster // one hand a man hopelessly lost, a coward who shirks his responsibility as a man and an officer, indelibly stained. The other grasps the seriousness of the situation immediately and tries to remind the first of his obligations." Some saw parallels between the incident and the country's recent political upheavals. "To see someone that in a moment of difficulty maintains steady nerves is consoling because that is what we need", another "Corriere della Sera" columnist, Beppe Severgnini, told "The New York Times". "Italy wants to have steady nerves because we've already done the cabaret route." De Falco's exasperated order to
Facebook post Says Italian Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte said, “We have lost control, we have killed the epidemic physically and mentally. Can’t understand what more we can do, all solutions are exhausted on ground. Our only hope remains up in the Sky, God rescue your people.” [SEP] Lorenzo Fontana // of the Chamber of Deputies with 222 votes. On 1 May 2018, Fontana was appointed Minister of Family and Disability in the government of Giuseppe Conte, a private law professor who was called to lead the coalition between the League and the Five Star Movement. In 2018, he wrote the book ""The empty cradle of civilization. At the origin of the crisis"", about the risks related to demographic decline in Italy. In August 2018, Fontana called for the repel of the Mancino Law an anti-fascist law saying the law was being used by “globalists” to promote “anti-Italian racism,” and should
Facebook post Says Italian Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte said, “We have lost control, we have killed the epidemic physically and mentally. Can’t understand what more we can do, all solutions are exhausted on ground. Our only hope remains up in the Sky, God rescue your people.” [SEP] Giuseppe Conte // 24 Ore" denounced that the condonation could not finance all the new tax system based on flat tax. Conte also announced more severe punishments for tax dodgers, which are a major problem in Italy. When Conte became Prime Minister in 2018, he acted quickly to deliver on promises to his anti-immigration base through strict controls on immigration to Italy. Since 2013, Italy absorbed over 700,000 African migrants arriving by boat from Libya. During his premiership, Conte and his Interior Minister Matteo Salvini promoted stricter policies regarding immigration and public security. After Conte's approval on 10 June 2018, Salvini announced the
Facebook post Says Italian Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte said, “We have lost control, we have killed the epidemic physically and mentally. Can’t understand what more we can do, all solutions are exhausted on ground. Our only hope remains up in the Sky, God rescue your people.” [SEP] Sharif Hassan Sheikh Aden // UNPOS, UNDP, UNICEF, WHO and OCHA. In an interview on June 16, 2011, Undersecretary for Foreign Affairs of Italy, Alfredo Mantica, expressed support for Prime Minister Mohamed's position with regard to the Kampala agreement. Mantica stated that the Italian government believed that the accord ought to be reviewed in Parliament. He also indicated that "the prime minister has been in office five months. And [it is too] early to judge his work. But what he has done so far has been very positive. It has achieved important results. The government already seemed a miracle[...] The strength of the instability in
Facebook post Says Italian Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte said, “We have lost control, we have killed the epidemic physically and mentally. Can’t understand what more we can do, all solutions are exhausted on ground. Our only hope remains up in the Sky, God rescue your people.” [SEP] Giuseppe Conte // CV that he had worked on his legal studies at the Kultur Institute in Vienna, Austria. However, this is a Language School and not a Law Faculty. Giuseppe Conte Giuseppe Conte (; born 8 August 1964) is an Italian jurist and politician serving as the 58th and current Prime Minister of Italy since 1 June 2018. A professor of private law, Conte was first proposed on 21 May 2018 for the role of Prime Minister as the head of a coalition government between the Five Star Movement and the League, but he relinquished his role when Paolo Savona, who was
Facebook post Says Italian Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte said, “We have lost control, we have killed the epidemic physically and mentally. Can’t understand what more we can do, all solutions are exhausted on ground. Our only hope remains up in the Sky, God rescue your people.” [SEP] Giuseppe Conte // Giuseppe Conte Giuseppe Conte (; born 8 August 1964) is an Italian jurist and politician serving as the 58th and current Prime Minister of Italy since 1 June 2018. A professor of private law, Conte was first proposed on 21 May 2018 for the role of Prime Minister as the head of a coalition government between the Five Star Movement and the League, but he relinquished his role when Paolo Savona, who was picked for Minister of Economy and Finance, was vetoed by President Sergio Mattarella. On 31 May, the two parties reached an agreement, proposing Giovanni Tria as Minister
Facebook post Says Italian Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte said, “We have lost control, we have killed the epidemic physically and mentally. Can’t understand what more we can do, all solutions are exhausted on ground. Our only hope remains up in the Sky, God rescue your people.” [SEP] 2018 Italian general election // in the Northern League election, with around 91 percent supporting the government agreement. On 21 May, the Five Star Movement and the League proposed law professor Giuseppe Conte as Prime Minister. On 23 May, Conte was invited to the Quirinal Palace to receive the task of forming a new cabinet and was granted a mandate by Italian President Mattarella. However, on 27 May 2018, the designated Prime Minister Conte renounced to his office, due to contrasts between the League's leader Salvini and President Mattarella. In fact, Salvini proposed the university professor Paolo Savona as Minister of Economy and Finances, but
Facebook post Says Italian Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte said, “We have lost control, we have killed the epidemic physically and mentally. Can’t understand what more we can do, all solutions are exhausted on ground. Our only hope remains up in the Sky, God rescue your people.” [SEP] Sergio Mattarella // by the weekend. On 21 May 2018, a private law professor, Giuseppe Conte, was proposed by Di Maio and Salvini for the role of Prime Minister in the 2018 Italian government. Despite reports in the Italian press suggesting that Mattarella still had significant reservations about the direction of the new government, Conte was invited to the Quirinal Palace on 23 May 2018 to receive the presidential mandate to form a new cabinet. In the traditional statement after the appointment, Conte said that he would be the “defense lawyer of Italian people”. However on 27 May, Conte renounced his mandate, due
Facebook post Says Italian Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte said, “We have lost control, we have killed the epidemic physically and mentally. Can’t understand what more we can do, all solutions are exhausted on ground. Our only hope remains up in the Sky, God rescue your people.” [SEP] Premiership of Mariano Rajoy // ministerial position and from politics the same day, "feeling unable to fulfill the assignment he was tasked", and amid voices pointing to him having been discredited by his own party. In August and September 2014, two Spanish priests infected with the Ebola virus disease during the virus epidemic in West Africa were medically evacuated to Spain. Both patients died as a result of the disease, but a failure in infection control during the treatment of the second priest led to the infection of one of the nurses who had treated him; the case being confirmed on 6 October 2014. Health
GOP senators from NC come out against Trump EPA nominee. [SEP] Scott Pruitt // officials who remained anonymous. However, two additional officials confirmed that presidential Chief of Staff John F. Kelly had expressed the administration's displeasure over being caught unaware by some of the ethical problems Pruitt's conduct raised. Senate Environment Committee Chair John Barrasso of Wyoming, supported Pruitt, as did Senators Rand Paul and Ted Cruz. Former coal lobbyist Andrew Wheeler's nomination as Deputy Administrator was submitted to become Pruitt's deputy in 2017, but was not confirmed. It was resubmitted in 2018. He was confirmed as Deputy Administrator of the EPA on April 12, 2018, by a mostly party line vote of 53–45,
GOP senators from NC come out against Trump EPA nominee. [SEP] Joe Manchin // for most of the Trump nominees. He was the only Democrat to vote in confirmation of Trump cabinet appointees Jeff Sessions and Steven Mnuchin, one of two Democrats who voted to confirm Scott Pruitt as EPA Administrator, and one of three who voted to confirm Rex Tillerson. In June 2017, Manchin voted to support President Trump's $350 billion arms deal with Saudi Arabia. In his 2018 campaign for Senate, Manchin announced that he supports Trump's proposal to construct a border wall along the southern border of the continental United States. He also said that he regrets voting for Hillary Clinton
GOP senators from NC come out against Trump EPA nominee. [SEP] Gina McCarthy // Republican governor of New Jersey and EPA administrator under President George W. Bush, stated: “It’s not about [McCarthy], it’s about the agency... Republicans lost the [presidential] election and they have to realize that this is the president’s choice of nominee. They can go after the president, but Gina McCarthy should get an up-and-down vote.” On July 18, 2013, the Senate confirmed McCarthy as the 13th Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency by a vote of 59-40, largely along party lines. On September 11, 2015, 26 U.S. representatives introduced a resolution impeaching McCarthy. It was referred to the House Judiciary Committee
GOP senators from NC come out against Trump EPA nominee. [SEP] Scott Pruitt // arrangements by the EPA's inspector general. House Oversight Committee Chairman Trey Gowdy, a Republican, started a probe into Pruitt in early April 2018 over his housing arrangements. President Donald Trump defended Pruitt, saying "Rent was about market rate, travel expenses OK. Scott is doing a great job!" By early April 2018, "Politico" reported that the number of mushrooming scandals, leaks and staff disapproval of Pruitt's expenditures and ethical conflicts had created chaos at the EPA and put morale at an all-time low. Three Republican Senators joined the criticism, including Susan Collins, who had voted against his confirmation, as well as
GOP senators from NC come out against Trump EPA nominee. [SEP] Cabinet of Donald Trump // Senate in a 54-45 vote, officially giving her the post, and making her the first full-time female CIA director. The nomination of an Administrator-designate is reviewed during hearings held by the members of the Environment and Public Works Committee, then presented to the full Senate for a vote. On December 7, 2016, Scott Pruitt, Attorney General of Oklahoma was selected to be the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency. In response to the nomination, Pruitt said, "I intend to run this agency in a way that fosters both responsible protection of the environment and freedom for American businesses." During his
GOP senators from NC come out against Trump EPA nominee. [SEP] Andrew R. Wheeler // EPA on April 12, 2018, by a mostly party-line vote of 53–45, which included three Democratic Senators: Joe Manchin, Heidi Heitkamp, and Joe Donnelly. Since being sworn in, Wheeler has had at least three meetings with former lobbying clients of his in a potential violation of the Trump administration's ethics pledge and the promises that Wheeler made during his confirmation hearing. Scott Pruitt announced on July 5, 2018, he would be resigning effective July 6. He left Wheeler as the acting head of the agency. Later, on November 16, 2018, Wheeler was nominated to be Administrator of the EPA, after
GOP senators from NC come out against Trump EPA nominee. [SEP] Andrew R. Wheeler // plants. Wheeler set up a meeting between Murray and Energy Secretary Rick Perry in March 2017; at the meeting, Murray advocated for the rollback of environmental regulations and for protections for the coal industry. In October 2017, Wheeler was nominated by President Donald Trump to become Deputy Administrator of the United States Environmental Protection Agency. His nomination was returned to the White House on January 3, 2018 as the Senate had adjourned at the end of 2017 without taking up the nomination (Senate Rule XXXI, paragraph 6.). His nomination was resubmitted and he was confirmed as Deputy Administrator of the
GOP senators from NC come out against Trump EPA nominee. [SEP] Environmental policy of the Donald Trump administration // him in 2017 and Trump resubmitted his name in January 2018. In March 2018, Wheeler commented to CNN that the EPA is "brainwashing our kids." His nomination was confirmed on April 12, 2018, by a mostly party line vote of 53-45, that included three Democratic Senators. Ken Cook the president of the Environmental Working Group commented on Wheeler's appointment calling Wheeler a coal and chemical "shill" and saying, "Before the Trump administration, it would have been inconceivable that a coal and chemical industry lobbyist with a long history of hostility toward environmental policy would be the number two at the
GOP senators from NC come out against Trump EPA nominee. [SEP] Michael Dourson // DuPont-sponsored recommendation of 210 ppb. The concentration of PFOA in the Lubeck, West Virginia public water supply was at that time 1 ppb. In July 2017, President Donald Trump nominated Dourson to become Assistant Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, Chemical Safety and Pollution Prevention. His nomination was sent to the United States Senate on July 19, 2017. His hearing before the United States Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works took place on October 4, 2017. During the hearing, he was criticized by Democrats for his ties to the chemical industry. Dourson defended himself to the satisfaction of the
GOP senators from NC come out against Trump EPA nominee. [SEP] First 100 days of Donald Trump's presidency // gas and coal industry" in a case brought to court by the Center for Media and Democracy. Lawmakers had criticized Pruitt who sued the EPA 14 times on behalf of the State of Oklahoma. Trump nominated Alexander Acosta as Secretary of Labor on February 16, when his first nominee Andrew Puzder stepped down under a wave of criticism for having employed an illegal immigrant as a former housekeeper, for his "remarks on women and employees at his restaurants" and for his "rancorous 1980s divorce". According to a database compiled by the "Washington Post" in collaboration with the Partnership for Public
The death from influenza of eight mostly vaccinated people over 65 in California's Santa Barbara County during the 2017-2018 flu season proves that you shouldn’t get the flu shot. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic in the United States by state // were confirmed, one by a middle-aged man in San Bernardino County, and another one by a middle-aged woman in Los Angeles County. A third death was confirmed on June 4, when a nine-year-old girl from Contra Costa County died. They were followed by an Orange County man's death on June 8 and a middle-aged man's death in Alameda County on June 9. As of June 9, there were 973 confirmed cases, 266 probable cases, and five deaths caused by the H1N1 flu. On June 10, another middle-aged man died in Alameda County, thus making it the third death in the
The death from influenza of eight mostly vaccinated people over 65 in California's Santa Barbara County during the 2017-2018 flu season proves that you shouldn’t get the flu shot. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic in the United States by state // a US Army National Guard base located in North Little Rock in Pulaski County. Deaths by county: The first two cases detected in the US were two children living in San Diego County and Imperial County (a county in which 18% of the residents are not US citizens), who became ill on March 28 and 30 respectively. A CDC alert concerning these two isolated cases was reported in the media on April 21. As of April 24 eight human cases were known in the US, including six in Southern California. The patients have recovered. The acting director of the US
The death from influenza of eight mostly vaccinated people over 65 in California's Santa Barbara County during the 2017-2018 flu season proves that you shouldn’t get the flu shot. [SEP] 2017–18 United States flu season // 140 patients daily, had more than 200 patients on one of those days. By 19 January, seventy-four people under the age of 65 had died in California, with thirty-two of those deaths occurring in the preceding week, making it the deadliest week of the flu season so far. By February 9, 2018, the national rate for flu-like symptoms for patients visiting clinics had reached "well above" seven percent, a rate last seen during the H1N1 swine flu epidemic of 2009. According to the "Los Angeles Times", 163 people under the age of 65 had died of the flu since October
The death from influenza of eight mostly vaccinated people over 65 in California's Santa Barbara County during the 2017-2018 flu season proves that you shouldn’t get the flu shot. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic in the United States by state // San Francisco Bay Area. On July 1, a woman who had been hospitalized in Marin County died of swine flu. As of July 23, 2009, 2,655 cases and 61 deaths in California had been confirmed. A list of hospitalizations and deaths can be viewed at the California Department of Health Website. As of mid-September 2009, California had 2,655 cases and 152 deaths. As of January 15, at least 479 California residents had died from confirmed H1N1 infection. On April 30 two cases of the flu virus were confirmed in the state of Colorado. The confirmed cases were a woman from
The death from influenza of eight mostly vaccinated people over 65 in California's Santa Barbara County during the 2017-2018 flu season proves that you shouldn’t get the flu shot. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic timeline // for Disease Control (CDC) is advised of a ten-year-old boy with a respiratory illness in San Diego County, California. Test results revealed an Influenza A virus but were negative for standard human strains. The San Diego County Health Department is notified. United States The CDC receives its first sample from California (from the ten-year-old boy in San Diego County), and identifies the virus as a strain of swine influenza A(H1N1). Mexico Authorities notify the PAHO of the atypical pneumonia. Veratect publishes the alert "Atypical Pneumonia Cases Reported at Hospital" regarding the Oaxaca cases. Mexico A case of atypical pneumonia in
The death from influenza of eight mostly vaccinated people over 65 in California's Santa Barbara County during the 2017-2018 flu season proves that you shouldn’t get the flu shot. [SEP] 2017–18 United States flu season // recent flu outbreak had killed at least 63 children. On February 10, 2018, officials in New York City confirmed the third pediatric flu death for the 2017–2018 season. The week prior, 43 states reported high patient traffic for the flu, with flu remaining widespread in each state except Hawaii and Oregon. California was hit especially hard by the 2017–18 flu outbreak. In California as of 6 January, twenty-seven people under the age of 65 died from flu since October, nine times as many as the prior year. The Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center emergency room, which often caters to about
The death from influenza of eight mostly vaccinated people over 65 in California's Santa Barbara County during the 2017-2018 flu season proves that you shouldn’t get the flu shot. [SEP] Influenza vaccine // to die an influenza-associated death than the 50–64 age group. There is a high-dose flu vaccine specifically formulated to provide a stronger immune response. Available evidence indicates that vaccinating the elderly with the high-dose vaccine leads to a stronger immune response against influenza than the regular-dose vaccine. A flu vaccine containing an adjuvant was approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in November 2015, for use by adults aged 65 years of age and older. The vaccine is marketed as Fluad in the U.S. and was first available in the 2016–2017 flu season. The vaccine contains the MF59C.1
The death from influenza of eight mostly vaccinated people over 65 in California's Santa Barbara County during the 2017-2018 flu season proves that you shouldn’t get the flu shot. [SEP] Swine influenza // 11 cases of GBS, which is lower than the normal rate of the disease in China: "The risk-benefit ratio, which is what vaccines and everything in medicine is about, is overwhelmingly in favor of vaccination." In September 1988, a swine flu virus killed one woman and infected others. A 32-year-old woman, Barbara Ann Wieners, was eight months pregnant when she and her husband, Ed, became ill after visiting the hog barn at a county fair in Walworth County, Wisconsin. Barbara died eight days later, after developing pneumonia. The only pathogen identified was an H1N1 strain of swine influenza virus. Doctors
The death from influenza of eight mostly vaccinated people over 65 in California's Santa Barbara County during the 2017-2018 flu season proves that you shouldn’t get the flu shot. [SEP] 2017–18 United States flu season // that year hadn't "changed enough from previous seasons to be considered a novel strain." In the first week of February, deaths from influenza and pneumonia were responsible for one of every ten deaths in the US, with 4,064 from pneumonia or influenza recorded in the third week of 2018, according to CDC data. The CDC also reported 63 child deaths at that point, half of which were not considered medically high risk, and only about 20 percent who were vaccinated. Only two of those deaths were babies under six months old. On February 9, 2018, the CDC announced that the
The death from influenza of eight mostly vaccinated people over 65 in California's Santa Barbara County during the 2017-2018 flu season proves that you shouldn’t get the flu shot. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic in the United States by state // another two in Marion County (June 15, 2009 and July 24, 2009) and three in Multnomah County (June 26, 2009, July 3, 2009, and July 17, 2009). On May 3, The Pennsylvania Department of Health said that a 31-year-old male in Montgomery County had the H1N1 flu. By May 5 probable cases were under investigation in Philadelphia (10), Bucks (2), Chester (2), Allegheny (1), Cambria (1), Franklin (1), Lehigh (1), Luzerne (1), Lycoming (1), Montgomery (1), and York (1) counties. On June 4, a 55-year-old woman in Berks County was confirmed as the first death in Pennsylvania due to swine
On whether Barack Obama was born in the United States. [SEP] Barack Obama citizenship conspiracy theories // demographic groups to doubt that Obama was born in the United States. 58% of Republicans either believed that Obama was not born in the U.S. (28%) or were not sure (30%), with 42% believing that he was. An overwhelming majority of Democrats (93%) and independents (83%) believed that he was born in the U.S. Support for the belief that Obama was born outside the U.S. was strongest in the South, where only 47% of those polled believed he was born in the U.S., compared with an average of 90% of residents of the Northeast, Midwest and West. A marked racial
On whether Barack Obama was born in the United States. [SEP] Barack Obama citizenship conspiracy theories // Some said that Chester A. Arthur was born outside the United States, with his birth records later allegedly falsified to show he was born in Vermont. In May 2012, the Arizona Secretary of State, Ken Bennett, asked Hawaii to verify Obama's Hawaiian birth to ensure his eligibility to appear on the November ballot. After Bennett proved that he needed the information as part of the regular course of official business, Hawaii officially confirmed that the information in the copy of the Certificate of Live Birth for the President matches the original record in their files. Later the same month, the
On whether Barack Obama was born in the United States. [SEP] Barack Obama citizenship conspiracy theories // remaining 27% were unsure. In Utah, an August 2009 poll carried out for the "Deseret News" and KSL-TV found that 67% of Utahns accepted the evidence that Obama was born in the U.S. The poll found that those who do not believe that Obama was born in the United States, or do not know, are predominantly middle-aged, lower-income Republican-leaning individuals without a college education. A Pew Research Center poll found that 80% of Americans had heard about the Obama citizenship claims by August 2009. The poll found a significant partisan divide in views of the news coverage, with 58% of
On whether Barack Obama was born in the United States. [SEP] Barack Obama presidential eligibility litigation // Pennsylvania attorney Philip J. Berg, a Democrat and former deputy state attorney general, filed a complaint alleging that Obama was born in Kenya, not Hawaii, and was therefore a citizen of Kenya or possibly Indonesia, where he lived as a child. He alleged that the "Certification of Live Birth" on Obama's website is a forgery. U.S. District Judge R. Barclay Surrick dismissed the complaint in October 2008, finding that Berg lacked standing to bring the case and that his attempts to gain standing to pursue his claim were "frivolous and not worthy of discussion." Bypassing the United States Court of
On whether Barack Obama was born in the United States. [SEP] Barack Obama citizenship conspiracy theories // was a Citizen of the United Kingdom and Colonies at the time Obama was born, Obama was born a dual citizen and therefore was not a natural-born citizen. In August 2008, the "Rocky Mountain News" ran an online article asserting that Obama is both a U.S. and a Kenyan citizen. This turned out to be incorrect according to FactCheck.org, which noted that Obama was indeed born a citizen of the United Kingdom and Colonies (CUKC) under British law, by virtue of his descent from a Kenyan father at a time when Kenya was a British colony, but lost CUKC citizenship
On whether Barack Obama was born in the United States. [SEP] Natural-born-citizen clause // born in 1961 in Honolulu, Hawaii (which had become a U.S. state in 1959). His mother was a U.S. citizen and his father was a British subject from British Kenya. Before and after the 2008 presidential election, arguments were made that Obama was not a natural-born citizen. On June 12, 2008, the Obama presidential campaign launched a website to counter what it described as a smear campaign by his opponents, including conspiracy theories challenging his eligibility. The most prominent issue raised against Obama was the claim made in several lawsuits that he was not actually born in Hawaii. The Supreme
On whether Barack Obama was born in the United States. [SEP] Leo Berman // Anderson Cooper, Berman was unable to present any evidence that would indicate that current eligibility requirements are of insufficient strength. He was ridiculed by "The New York Times" columnist Gail Collins when he declared that U.S. President Barack H. Obama's long-form birth certificate did not prove that the president was born in the United States since "there is no plaque in the hospital where he was supposedly born". In April 2010, Berman attended a Glenn Beck-sponsored "Taking America Back" rally in which he called Obama "God's punishment on us today, but in 2012, we are going to make Obama a
On whether Barack Obama was born in the United States. [SEP] Barack Obama citizenship conspiracy theories // because his mother was an American citizen, saying that Obama's mother "could have been on Mars when wee Barry emerged and he'd still be American." A contrary view is promoted by UCLA Law Professor Eugene Volokh, who has said that in the hypothetical scenario that Obama was born outside the U.S., he would be a natural-born citizen, since the then-applicable law would have required Obama's mother to have been in the U.S. at least "five years after the age of 14", but Ann Dunham was three months shy of her 19th birthday when Obama was born. An incorrect but popularly
On whether Barack Obama was born in the United States. [SEP] Barack Obama citizenship conspiracy theories // and states that Obama was "born in Kenya and raised in Indonesia and Hawaii." When this was posted by Breitbart, the booklet's editor said that this incorrect information had been her mistake, not based on anything provided to her agency by Obama. On June 12, 2008, Obama's campaign responded to the rumors by posting an image of Obama's birth certificate on the ""Fight The Smears"" website. The image is a scan of a laser-printed document obtained from and certified by the Hawaii Department of Health on June 6, 2007. It is a "Certification of Live Birth", sometimes referred to as
On whether Barack Obama was born in the United States. [SEP] Barack Obama citizenship conspiracy theories // "Barry" rather than "Barack"; and that Barack Obama Sr. was not his biological father, as well as the rumor that Barack Obama was not a natural-born citizen. In August 2008, Philip J. Berg, a former member of the Democratic State Committee of Pennsylvania, brought an unsuccessful lawsuit against Obama, which alleged "that Obama was born in Mombasa, Kenya." In October 2008, an NPR article referred to "Kenyan-born Sen. Barack Obama." Also that month, anonymous e-mails circulated claiming that the Associated Press (AP) had reported Obama was "Kenyan-Born". The claims were based on an AP story that had appeared five years
Facebook post Says the governors of Michigan, New York and Nevada “have issued orders banning the prescription of hydroxychloroquine to patients with COVID-19.” [SEP] Conscience clause (medicine) // Governor Rod Blagojevich by emergency executive order required all pharmacists to provide Plan B levonorgestrel. In September 2012, the Illinois Appellate Court found the Governor’s order violated Illinois law. In June 2006, the Pharmacy Board of the Washington State Department of Health rejected a draft rule proposed by Governor Christine Gregoire to require all pharmacies to begin carrying Plan B. Governor Gregoire responded by releasing a public statement warning the Board members to reconsider or they could be removed. In July 2006, the Washington State Human Rights Commission warned the Board members that they would be personally liable for illegally
Facebook post Says the governors of Michigan, New York and Nevada “have issued orders banning the prescription of hydroxychloroquine to patients with COVID-19.” [SEP] Cardinal Health // that it failed to report suspicious orders of hydrocodone. The fine followed a 10-month DEA suspension of a Lakeland, Florida distribution facility and two others in New Jersey and Washington. On February 2, 2012, the Drug Enforcement Administration again suspended the license of the firm's Lakeland distribution center to distribute controlled substances on charges that it had allowed four Florida pharmacies to purchase excessive amounts of controlled substances, in particular oxycodone. Cardinal Health obtained a restraining order against the suspension, but the suspension was upheld on February 29 by a Federal district court because the court agreed with the DEA
Facebook post Says the governors of Michigan, New York and Nevada “have issued orders banning the prescription of hydroxychloroquine to patients with COVID-19.” [SEP] Methylenedioxypyrovalerone // as well as three other cathinones, controlled substances in the state. It also makes it a Class A misdemeanor to sell the drug, and a Class B misdemeanor to possess it. MDPV is banned in New Jersey under Pamela's Law. The law is named after Pamela Schmidt, a Rutgers University student, murdered in March 2011 by an alleged user of MDPV. A toxicology report later found that no "bath salts" were present in his system. On May 5, 2011, Tennessee Governor Bill Haslam signed a law making it a crime "to knowingly produce, manufacture, distribute, sell, offer for sale or
Facebook post Says the governors of Michigan, New York and Nevada “have issued orders banning the prescription of hydroxychloroquine to patients with COVID-19.” [SEP] 2,4-Dichlorophenoxyacetic acid // data and deemed them acceptable. On April 18, 2012, EPA denied the petition filed November 6, 2008, by the Natural Resources Defense Council to revoke all tolerances and to cancel all registrations of 2,4-D. EPA stated that recent new study and EPA’s comprehensive review confirmed EPA’s previous finding that the 2,4-D tolerances are safe at anticipated exposure. In October 2014, the US EPA registered Enlist Duo, an herbicide containing the less volatile 2,4-D choline salt, glyphosate, and an antidrift agent, for use in six states: Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Ohio, South Dakota, and Wisconsin. In November 2015, the EPA attempted to
Facebook post Says the governors of Michigan, New York and Nevada “have issued orders banning the prescription of hydroxychloroquine to patients with COVID-19.” [SEP] Scott Dozier // and Sandoz also objected to the use of their drugs (fentanyl and cisatracurium besilate, respectively) but did not join Alvogen's lawsuit. The next court hearing regarding the case is scheduled for September 10, 2018, in which Alvogen, a pharmaceuticals manufacturer whose drugs were purchased for the execution, is seeking to prevent the use of Midazolam in any lethal injection execution. Alvogen asserts that the Nevada Department of Corrections fraudulently obtained one of its sedatives to be used in the execution, and also filed a temporary restraining order to prevent its product from being used in executions. Lawyers for Alvogen claim
Facebook post Says the governors of Michigan, New York and Nevada “have issued orders banning the prescription of hydroxychloroquine to patients with COVID-19.” [SEP] Valsartan // Accord Healthcare. In Canada, the recall involves five companies and a class action suit has been initiated by a private law firm. Authorities believe the degree of contamination is negligible, and advise those taking the drug to consult a doctor and not to cease taking the medication abruptly. On July 12, 2018, The National Agency of Drug and Food Control (NA-DFC or Badan POM Indonesia) announced voluntary recalls for two products containing valsartan produced by Actavis Indonesia and Dipa Pharmalab Intersains. On July 13, 2018, the FDA announced voluntary recalls of certain supplies of valsartan and valsartan/hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ) in the
Facebook post Says the governors of Michigan, New York and Nevada “have issued orders banning the prescription of hydroxychloroquine to patients with COVID-19.” [SEP] Mass drug administration // bags. The state held the monopoly for the salt. The only alternative source was salt smuggled from Brazil. Although the chloroquinized salt was used, its popularity was limited by the occurrence of a photo-allergic dermatitis popularly called ‘salt itch’ noted in all treatment areas. Chloroquine resistance was first observed in 1962 in the area with the lowest relative uptake of chloroquinized salt. In the course of the following months, a complete replacement of the susceptible strains with resistant "P. falciparum" strains was observed. Following the reintroduction of DDT spraying, the prevalence of "P. falciparum" declined. In Southeast Asia, the medicated
Facebook post Says the governors of Michigan, New York and Nevada “have issued orders banning the prescription of hydroxychloroquine to patients with COVID-19.” [SEP] Executive Order 13771 // chairman and Public Citizen Litigation Group lawyer David Vladeck called the executive order "unconstitutional, illegal and stupid," saying "if you really want to reduce the regulatory load, you can't use a shotgun, you have to use a scalpel." On April 17, 2017, fourteen states (West Virginia, Wisconsin, Alabama, Arizona, Arkansas, Georgia, Kansas, Louisiana, Michigan, Nevada, Oklahoma, South Carolina, Texas, and Wyoming) filed an amici curiae in support of the Executive Order. The Republican states argue that the Executive Order falls within allowed presidential authority and will benefit state governments. In March 2017, the US Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) formed
Facebook post Says the governors of Michigan, New York and Nevada “have issued orders banning the prescription of hydroxychloroquine to patients with COVID-19.” [SEP] Mass drug administration // 10 of China’s 33 provinces. The drugs used in the administrations, mostly chloroquine and piperaquine, were provided free of charge by the central government. The economic reforms instituted by Deng Xiaoping, which ultimately put an end to the provision of free health care through the central government and the emergence of resistance against the most widely used antimalarials modified the use of mass drug administrations after 1980. MDAs are now targeted at high-risk populations, specifically non-immune migratory workers who receive repeated courses during the high transmission season. According to government guidelines, piperaquine, chloroquine, or sulfadoxine combined with primaquine can be
Facebook post Says the governors of Michigan, New York and Nevada “have issued orders banning the prescription of hydroxychloroquine to patients with COVID-19.” [SEP] 2,4-Dichlorophenoxyacetic acid // withdraw its own approval of Enlist Duo, as a result of legal actions against both the agency and Dow by two U.S. groups. However, while it was implied that the approval was "gone" because of the action, in fact, Enlist Duo was still approved pending a decision by the courts. On January 25, 2016, the US Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals denied EPA's motion to vacate its Enlist Duo registration. Dow stated the product would be available in 15 US states and Canada for the 2016 crop season. On 21 August 2013, the Australian Pesticides and Veterinary Medicines Authority (APVMA)
Ruling leaves Ohio ban on Down syndrome abortions on hold. [SEP] Sarah LaTourette // LaTourette sponsored an identical bill in 2015. Calling Down Syndrome abortion eugenics, unacceptable, and "discrimination," her bill was voted on 63 to 30, to move to the Ohio Senate. Related bills are on hold in Indiana and Louisiana after multiple court challenges, while North Dakota's only abortion clinic sees no need to challenge state "law," because prenatal screenings there for Down Syndrome are carried out at sixteen weeks, beyond the limit for performing abortions, which inhibit bearers from obtaining related abortions. The 2017 Ohio Senate version, Bill 164, was sponsored by Frank LaRose, 2018 GOP candidate for Secretary of State,
Ruling leaves Ohio ban on Down syndrome abortions on hold. [SEP] Sarah LaTourette // 214 to the Ohio House of Representatives in 2017, prohibiting "anyone from performing or inducing an abortion if that person has knowledge that the diagnosis or test result indicating Down syndrome in an unborn child is the reason for seeking the abortion [and] Violation of the statute would be a fourth-degree felony and would result in the State [of Ohio] Medical Board revoking a physician’s license." Reuters reports doctors that follow through with abortion requests could face a fourth-degree felony charge which carries a maximum penalty of up to eighteen months in prison or $5,000 fine, if they are convicted.
Ruling leaves Ohio ban on Down syndrome abortions on hold. [SEP] City of Akron v. Akron Center for Reproductive Health // City of Akron v. Akron Center for Reproductive Health City of Akron v. Akron Center for Reproductive Health, 462 U.S. 416 (1983), was a case in which the United States Supreme Court affirmed its abortion rights jurisprudence. The case struck down several provisions of an Ohio abortion law. In an opinion by Justice Powell, the Court struck down each of the challenged provisions. One provision of the statute required abortions after the first trimester to be performed in a hospital. The Court found that to be unconstitutional. The state has a compelling interest in regulating abortion after the first trimester,
Ruling leaves Ohio ban on Down syndrome abortions on hold. [SEP] Down syndrome // or cured and that eliminating Down syndrome amounts to genocide. The disability rights movement does not have a position on screening, although some members consider testing and abortion discriminatory. Some in the United States who are pro-life support abortion if the fetus is disabled, while others do not. Of a group of 40 mothers in the United States who have had one child with Down syndrome, half agreed to screening in the next pregnancy. Within the US, some Protestant denominations see abortion as acceptable when a fetus has Down syndrome, while Orthodox Christians and Roman Catholics often do not. Some
Ruling leaves Ohio ban on Down syndrome abortions on hold. [SEP] City of Akron v. Akron Center for Reproductive Health // between abortion and childbirth. The Ohio regulation extends the state's interest in informed consent beyond permissible limits, interfering with the discretion of the physician and placing unreasonable obstacles in his path. Another provision mandated a 24-hour waiting period after the patient signs a consent form. The Court struck the provision down, as no state interest is served by the imposition of an "arbitrary and inflexible" waiting period. The final challenged provision required physicians to ensure that fetal remains are disposed of in a "humane and sanitary manner." The majority deemed that to be unconstitutional, as criminal sanctions are imposed upon
Ruling leaves Ohio ban on Down syndrome abortions on hold. [SEP] City of Akron v. Akron Center for Reproductive Health // "Planned Parenthood v. Casey" (1992), which replaced the earlier "strict scrutiny" standard of review of abortion regulations with the lesser "undue burden" standard, a standard which remains in effect. The case was overruled by the plurality in "Planned Parenthood v. Casey" (1992). City of Akron v. Akron Center for Reproductive Health City of Akron v. Akron Center for Reproductive Health, 462 U.S. 416 (1983), was a case in which the United States Supreme Court affirmed its abortion rights jurisprudence. The case struck down several provisions of an Ohio abortion law. In an opinion by Justice Powell, the Court struck down
Ruling leaves Ohio ban on Down syndrome abortions on hold. [SEP] Genetics and abortion // conclude that 90 percent of fetuses that are diagnosed with Down syndrome via fetal genetic testing are aborted. However, only 2-3 percent of women agree to completing genetic testing, CVS or amniocentesis, the current tests for chromosomal abnormalities. When taking this into account, it is believed that approximately 50 percent of fetuses with Down Syndrome are aborted. Support for disability-selective abortions stems from arguments that those born with disabilities have a quality of life that is reduced to the extent that non-existence is preferable, and terminating the pregnancy is actually for the sake of the future child. Some argue that
Ruling leaves Ohio ban on Down syndrome abortions on hold. [SEP] Sandra Jensen // had worked as an advocate for the rights of people with disabilities, and to supporters, this was unacceptable. They began a very public battle, gaining nationwide attention arguing that Down syndrome should not be enough to automatically deprive a patient of a chance to survive. They won. On January 23, 1996, Sandra Jensen received the requested transplant at Stanford University Medical Center, and was released on March 1. Her case was seen by many as a test of whether hospitals could use blanket categories to deny special treatments. The hospitals argued that mental limitations of Down syndrome could affect a
Ruling leaves Ohio ban on Down syndrome abortions on hold. [SEP] Intact dilation and extraction // passed bans specifically on intact D&E. The first was Ohio, which in 1995 enacted a law that referred to the procedure as "dilation and extraction". In 1997, the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit found the law unconstitutional on the grounds that it placed a substantial and unconstitutional obstacle in the path of women seeking pre-viability abortions in the second trimester. Between 1995 and 2000, 28 more states passed Partial-Birth Abortion bans, all similar to the proposed federal bans and all lacking an exemption for the health of the woman. Many of these state laws faced legal
Ruling leaves Ohio ban on Down syndrome abortions on hold. [SEP] Steve Arndt // every Republican in the chamber. In response to the vote, Minority Leader Fred Strahorn said, "Planned Parenthood provides low-cost preventative care to tens of thousands of women in Ohio. Defunding these effective and cost-efficient programs will put women and families in our underserved communities at risk." Arndt voted in favor of "legislation to ban local hiring standards and restrict project labor agreements (PLAs) for public works projects." Debate around the issue at the time focused on the likelihood that the legislation would push jobs out of Ohio. "The Ohio Contractors Association and other backers of a ban say such quotas
As millions vape, e-cigarette researchers count puffs, scour Facebook. [SEP] Cloud-chasing (electronic cigarette) // vapers openly condemn the activity, saying that those who attempt to blow the large amount of vapor indoors will lead to those who are still doubtful about vaping to support restricting their use. Many "Vapers" use e-cigarettes to take part in tricks like blowing smoke rings, the dragon, tornados, and various other vape tricks. The dragon is exhaling vapor out of the nose and mouth at the same time. Other tricks include the "Push the O" move and Jellyfish. The "Push the O" move is exhaling a vape ring and pushing it aside with their hands. The Jellyfish is blowing
As millions vape, e-cigarette researchers count puffs, scour Facebook. [SEP] 2wenty // internet and on the streets of Los Angeles and San Francisco. The posters featured a pack of cigarettes with the Facebook logo and a tag that read, "Social Cigarettes." He created over one hundred of the posters, comparing Facebook consumption with that of "cancer sticks." 2wenty also created three-dimensional versions of the posters, complete with a surgeon general warning, "Facebook may cause loss of time, poor work ethic, obesity, social disorder and possible interference of destiny. Use at your own risk." 2wenty has had multiple collaborations with fellow aritst, Gregory Siff, in addition to This Means Mar. In December 2013,
As millions vape, e-cigarette researchers count puffs, scour Facebook. [SEP] Electronic cigarette // a Tobacco Product, the authors chose to use the term e-cigarettes for some use e-juice without nicotine. Between their introduction to the market in 2004 and approximately 2015, global usage of e-cigarettes rose exponentially. By 2013, there were several million users globally. Awareness and use of e-cigarettes greatly increased in a relatively short period of time. Growth rates in the US and UK slowed in 2015, although use is still increasing. Most users have a history of smoking regular cigarettes. At least 52% of smokers or ex-smokers in one area have vaped. Of smokers who have, one British study reported
As millions vape, e-cigarette researchers count puffs, scour Facebook. [SEP] Vape shop // customers to choosing an e-liquid. Patrons are permitted to vape in most vape shops. "Cloud-chasing", the activity of blowing the largest clouds of vapor, is becoming a routine event at some vape shops. Some vape shop owners choose not to sell vaping products to minors. Vapor store owners use the internet to get information e-cigarettes. Vape shop owners generally believe vaping is a habit. It has been reported that many vape shop owners do not know all of the substances contained in e-liquids. In 2013, online search engine searches on vape shops surpassed searches on e-cigarettes. The markup of e-cigarettes
As millions vape, e-cigarette researchers count puffs, scour Facebook. [SEP] Electronic cigarette // to a reported 20% from the years 2004 through 2009, dropped to 15.5% in 2016 and most recently 14% in 2017. Since the first National Health Interview Survey in 1965 smoking has declined 67%. As of 2017 the CDC reports 34 million adults are current smokers of combustible cigarettes. 47 million adults use some form of tobacco product. Large gatherings of vapers, called vape meets, take place around the US. They focus on e-cig devices, accessories, and the lifestyle that accompanies them. Vapefest, which started in 2010, is an annual show hosted by different cities. People attending these meetings are
As millions vape, e-cigarette researchers count puffs, scour Facebook. [SEP] Electronic cigarette // and aluminum. The assertion that e-cigarettes emit "only water vapor" is false because the evidence indicates e-cigarette vapor contains possibly harmful chemicals such as nicotine, carbonyls, metals, and organic volatile compounds, in addition to particulates. The number of e-cigarettes sold increased every year from 2003 to 2015, when a slowdown in the growth in usage occurred in both the US and the UK. there were at least 466 e-cigarette brands. Worldwide e-cigarette sales in 2014 were around US$7 billion. Approximately 30–50% of total e-cigarettes sales are handled on the internet. The consumer preference for e-cigarettes is having a dramatic effect
As millions vape, e-cigarette researchers count puffs, scour Facebook. [SEP] Electronic cigarette // and Juuling is a large part of internet culture for young people and the subject of many memes on social media. In 2017, about 13 percent of 8th graders, 24 percent of 10th graders, and nearly 28 percent of 12th graders at American schools reported vaping in the past year, according to research sponsored by the National Institutes of Health. Survey data suggests that teens use e-cigarettes substantially more than cigarettes and that teenagers tend to perceive as e-cigarettes as safer than cigarettes or harmless. Boys are more likely to use e-cigarettes than girls and are twice as likely to
As millions vape, e-cigarette researchers count puffs, scour Facebook. [SEP] Electronic cigarette // and tweet about e-cigarette related products. The editorial stated that vapers "also engage in grossly offensive online attacks on anyone who has the temerity to suggest that ENDS are anything other than an innovation that can save thousands of lives with no risks". A 2014 review stated that tobacco and e-cigarette companies interact with consumers for their policy agenda. The companies use websites, social media, and marketing to get consumers involved in opposing bills that include e-cigarettes in smoke-free laws. The same review said this is similar to tobacco industry activity going back to the 1980s. These approaches were used
As millions vape, e-cigarette researchers count puffs, scour Facebook. [SEP] Electronic cigarette // that less than 15% became everyday e-cigarette users. Though e-cigarette use among those who have never smoked is very low, it continues to rise. One United States survey of e-cigarette users conducted from 2011–2012 found that only 1% of respondents used liquid without nicotine. Everyday use is common among e-cigarette users. Many e-cigarette users are middle-aged men who also smoke traditional cigarettes. E-cigarette use is rising among women. In the US, , 12.6% of adults had used an e-cigarette at least once and approximately 3.7% were still using them. 1.1% of adults were daily users. Non-smokers and former smokers who
As millions vape, e-cigarette researchers count puffs, scour Facebook. [SEP] Electronic cigarette // sensation-seeking or symbolic of rebellion. Appealing flavors are another very commonly cited reason for using e-cigarettes among minors. Some researchers and anti-tobacco advocates are concerned that irresponsible marketing could make e-cigarettes appeal to young people. There is also a risk that infants or toddlers could ingest the e-liquid from an improperly-stored device. About 48% of poison control calls involved exposures in children in 2016. In 2016 there were 2,907 total calls specifically regarding e-cigarettes and liquid nicotine for all age ranges. The number of these calls seems to be trending downward after a peak of 4,023 calls for all ages
Zambia records first coronavirus death. [SEP] Coronavirus // 2013, a case of contamination from human to human in France was confirmed by the French Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. In addition, cases of person-to-person transmission have been reported by the Ministry of Health in Tunisia. Two confirmed cases seem to have caught the disease from their late father, who became ill after a visit to Qatar and Saudi Arabia. By Oct. 30 2013, there were 124 cases and 52 deaths in Saudi Arabia. After the Dutch Erasmus Medical Centre sequenced the virus, the virus was given a new name, Human Corona Virus-Erasmus Medical Centre (HCoV-EMC). The final
Zambia records first coronavirus death. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // United Kingdom, France, Germany, and the United Arab Emirates. According to a European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) publication, on April 2014, Tunisia had a total of 3 cases with 1 fatality. In May 2015, the first case in South Korea was confirmed in a man who had visited several Middle Eastern countries. As of 16 June 2015, a total of 150 cases has been infected, including 18 deaths, according to the World Health Organization (WHO). As of 29 June 2015, 32 people in South Korea have died from this outbreak, with 182 confirmed cases of infection. There
Zambia records first coronavirus death. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // the same room as the first patient was confirmed by French Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. France reported its first death from MERS near the end of May 2013. On 28 May 2013, a report by the Associated Press said a French patient died of the novel coronavirus related to SARS. Fifty percent of those infected have died. On 20 April 2014, Greece reported its first MERS-CoV case. The infected individual was a 69-year-old Greek male who had returned to Greece on April 17 from Saudi Arabia. People with close contact with the infected man were identified and are
Zambia records first coronavirus death. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // was referred to the RITM last 4 July 2015. Another person, who was also showing symptoms, was placed in isolation after he had close contact with the said patient; eight others, who also had contacted with the patient, were identified. DOH is in the process of tracking all the people whom the patient had contacted with. The first known case of a previously unknown coronavirus was identified in a 60-year-old Saudi Arabian man with acute pneumonia, who died of renal failure in June 2012. As of 12 May 2013, two more deaths have been reported in the al-Ahsa region of
Zambia records first coronavirus death. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // in Manchester in an elderly man who had recently visited the Middle East and Pakistan; it was the 10th case globally. The man's son, whom he visited in the hospital in Birmingham, was immuno-suppressed because of a brain tumour, and contracted the virus, providing the first clear evidence for person-to-person transmission. He died on 19 February 2013. The second patient was a 49-year-old Qatari man who had visited Saudi Arabia before falling ill. He was flown privately by air ambulance from Doha to London on 11 September where he was admitted to St Mary's Hospital and later was transferred to
Zambia records first coronavirus death. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // have been at least 3800 quarantined. On 16 April 2014, Malaysia reported its first MERS-COV related death. The person was a 54-year-old man who had traveled to Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, together with pilgrimage group composed of 18 people, from 15–28 March 2014. He became ill by 4 April, and sought remedy at a clinic in Johor on 7 April. He was hospitalized by 9 April and died on 13 April. On May 11, 2014, two persons on Medan were suspected infected by MERS-Cov (Middle Eastern Respiratory Syndrome-Corona Virus). On 31 October 2013, the World Health Organization (WHO) confirmed that one
Zambia records first coronavirus death. [SEP] Coronavirus // has emerged around the world. Its economic importance is as yet unclear, but shows high mortality in piglets. The most recent common ancestor of the coronavirus has been placed at 8,000 years BC. They may be considerably older than this. Another estimate places the most recent common ancestor (MRCA) of all coronaviruses ~8100 BC. The MRCA of Alphacoronavirus, Betacoronavirus, Gammacoronavirus, and Deltacoronavirus have been placed at ~2400 BC, ~3300 BC, ~2800 BC and ~3000 BC, respectively. It appears that bats and birds, the warm blooded flying vertebrates, are ideal hosts for the coronavirus gene source with bats for Alphacoronavirus and
Zambia records first coronavirus death. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // St Thomas's Hospital. As a result of Dr Zaki's post on Pro-MED, the novel coronavirus was quickly identified. He was treated for respiratory disease and, like the first patient in Saudi Arabia, died of renal failure in October 2012. Another patient who had been in Guys and St Thomas hospital in the UK since September 2012 after visiting the Middle East died on 28 June 2013. A spokesperson for the hospital stated that "Guys and St Thomas can confirm that the patient with severe respiratory illness due to novel coronavirus (MERS-COV) sadly died on Friday 28 June, after his condition
Zambia records first coronavirus death. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // and from that family at least one additional person presented similar symptoms but tested negative for the novel coronavirus. On 21 February 2013, WHO stated that there had been 13 laboratory-confirmed cases, 6 cases (4 fatal) from Saudi Arabia, 2 cases (both fatal) from Jordan, 2 cases from Qatar, and 3 from the UK. In March 2013, the Saudi Arabia Ministry of Health reported the death of a 39-year-old man, the 15th case and 9th death reported to WHO. On 2 May 2013, the Saudi Ministry of Health announced five people died and two other people were in critical condition
Zambia records first coronavirus death. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // of unknown origin. Of the six, two died. All the cases were reported to the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC). After the September identification of a novel CoV strain, a retroactive analysis of the hospital workers was performed. Epidemiologists discovered the Jordan cases. Using stored laboratory samples for all six, it was found that samples from the two patients who had died tested positive for nCoV. On 24 April 2014, a 25-year-old male was found positive for the coronavirus. He had history of exposure to camels and had consumed camel milk. The Ministry of Health and Medical
A female mortuary worker was arrested after becoming pregnant by one of the corpses she was preparing for burial. [SEP] Mark Obenshain // which would have required women who had miscarriages without medical attendance to report it to authorities within 24 hours. Obenshain explained that he introduced the bill in response to the case of a Virginia woman who threw her dead newborn baby's body into the trash, and was trying to create a bill to allow law enforcement to prosecute a woman in that circumstance. However, the legislation that emerged "was far too broad, and would have had ramifications that neither he nor the Commonwealth's attorney's office ever intended," and after being unable to resolve the problem of women potentially being prosecuted
A female mortuary worker was arrested after becoming pregnant by one of the corpses she was preparing for burial. [SEP] Body Double (novel) // several murder victims (mostly pregnant women, but including some men) are found. A check of the FBI database over forty years reveals a possible pattern circumnavigating the US. Maura eventually finds that her mother, Amalathea Lank, has been jailed for two murders, one of a 9-months-pregnant woman. Eventually, she also works out that Amalathea and her cousin Elijah (whom she eventually married) had been killing women who were just about to deliver and then taking out the babies and selling them. She also finds that Ballard was in love with Anna, and that he also likes her very much (Maura
A female mortuary worker was arrested after becoming pregnant by one of the corpses she was preparing for burial. [SEP] Honor killing // infant, along with six other persons, including a doctor who had reportedly accepted a bribe to not report the birth, were arrested. The grandmother is suspected of fatally suffocating the infant. The child's mother, 25, was also arrested; she stated that her family had made the decision to kill the child. In 2010 a 16-year-old girl was buried alive by relatives for befriending boys in Southeast Turkey; her corpse was found 40 days after she went missing. Ahmet Yildiz, 26, a Turkish-Kurdish physics student who represented his country at an international gay conference in the United States in 2008, was
A female mortuary worker was arrested after becoming pregnant by one of the corpses she was preparing for burial. [SEP] Necrophilia // abusing a corpse or grave ("brott mot griftefrid"), which carries a maximum sentence of two years in prison. One person has been convicted of necrophilia. He was sentenced to psychiatric care for that and other crimes, including arson. Sexual penetration of a corpse was made illegal under the Sexual Offences Act 2003, carrying a maximum sentence of two years' imprisonment. Prior to 2003, necrophilia was not illegal; however, exposing a naked corpse in public was classed as a public nuisance ("R v. Clark [1883] 15 Cox 171"). There is no federal legislation specifically barring sex with a corpse. Multiple states
A female mortuary worker was arrested after becoming pregnant by one of the corpses she was preparing for burial. [SEP] Gerri Santoro // using surgical instruments and a textbook, which Dixon had obtained from a co-worker at the Mansfield school. However, when Santoro began to hemorrhage, Dixon fled the motel. She died, at age 28, and her body was found the following morning by a maid. Dixon was apprehended three days later. He was charged with manslaughter and "conspiracy to commit abortion" and sentenced to a year and a day in prison. Police officers who worked on the case called this term "negligible". Police took a photograph of Santoro's body as it was found: naked, kneeling, collapsed upon the floor, with a bloody
A female mortuary worker was arrested after becoming pregnant by one of the corpses she was preparing for burial. [SEP] Necrophilia // funeral ceremonies, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to one year, or with fine, or with both. Although sex with a corpse is not explicitly mentioned, a person who has sex with a corpse may be convicted under the above section. Section 377 of the Indian Penal Code could also be invoked. Under Section 150 of the New Zealand Crimes Act 1961, it is an offence for there to be "misconduct in respect to human remains". Subsection (b) elaborates that this applies if someone "improperly or indecently interferes with or offers indignity
A female mortuary worker was arrested after becoming pregnant by one of the corpses she was preparing for burial. [SEP] Gerardo Flores // her own attempts to induce miscarriage failed she called upon Flores to try stepping on her midsection. A week later she miscarried. Under Texas law a woman cannot be charged with causing the deaths of her own fetuses, so Flores alone stood trial. Gerardo Flores Gerardo Flores (born 1986) of Lufkin, Texas, was convicted in 2005 of two counts of capital murder for giving his girlfriend, who was carrying twins, an at-home abortion the previous year. Prosecutors chose not to seek the death penalty, and so he was sentenced automatically to life in prison without the possibility of parole for
A female mortuary worker was arrested after becoming pregnant by one of the corpses she was preparing for burial. [SEP] Body Double (novel) // in her driveway. There, Maura finds the body of a woman who looks identical to her—and also shares the same birthday. When the body is taken in to the medical examiner's office, Maura takes a tissue sample from the dead woman, and one from herself and asks Rizzoli to take them for DNA testing. The woman is found to have been killed by a 'Black Talon' bullet. Meanwhile, Matilda Purvis, the almost-9-months-pregnant wife of a BMW dealership manager, visits the dealership after an OB-GYN appointment—and is belittled by her husband (who she had married when she was two months pregnant)
A female mortuary worker was arrested after becoming pregnant by one of the corpses she was preparing for burial. [SEP] Vera Renczi // after becoming romantically involved with her. When connected to men she was openly having an affair with, she would invariably concoct stories of them being "unfaithful" and having "abandoned her". After the wife of one of Renczi's lovers followed him to Renczi's residence one evening and the man subsequently never returned home, the police were called to investigate his disappearance. Upon searching Renczi's wine cellar, they discovered 32 unburied, zinc-lined coffins. Each contained a male corpse in varying stages of decomposition. Renczi was arrested and taken into police custody where she confessed to having poisoned the 32 men with arsenic
A female mortuary worker was arrested after becoming pregnant by one of the corpses she was preparing for burial. [SEP] Westlake, Los Angeles // including three mothers (two of them pregnant), two fetuses and six children. The two fetuses were placed with their mothers in the caskets. A 15-month-old child of Guatemalan parents was buried earlier in Calvary Cemetery. The other remains were returned to Mexico and Guatemala. In 1998, prosecutors filed charges against two men in the crime, alleging they were members of the 18th Street Gang who were attempting to intimidate an apartment manager who had tried to drive away drug dealers from the place. The charges were dropped after two years for lack of evidence. In February 2017, police arrested "multlple
The test that reveals cancer sooner [SEP] Length time bias // shorter asymptomatic phase than slower-growing tumors. Thus, there is a shorter period of time during which the cancer is present in the body (and so might be detected by screening) but not yet large enough to cause symptoms, that would cause the patient to seek medical care and be diagnosed without screening. As a result, if the same number of slow-growing and fast-growing tumors appear in a year, the screening test detects more slow-growers than fast-growers. If the slow growing tumors are less likely to be fatal than the fast growers, the people whose cancer is detected by screening do
The test that reveals cancer sooner [SEP] Ovarian cancer // screening test, meaning most cases are not diagnosed until they have reached advanced stages. Ovarian cancer metastasizes early in its development, often before it has been diagnosed. High-grade tumors metastasize more readily than low-grade tumors. Typically, tumor cells begin to metastasize by growing in the peritoneal cavity. More than 60% of women presenting with ovarian cancer have stage-III or stage-IV cancer, when it has already spread beyond the ovaries. Ovarian cancers shed cells into the naturally occurring fluid within the abdominal cavity. These cells can then implant on other abdominal (peritoneal) structures, including the uterus, urinary bladder, bowel, lining of
The test that reveals cancer sooner [SEP] Ovarian cancer // inguinal lymph nodes may reveal lymphadenopathy, which can be indicative of metastasis. Another indicator may be the presence of a pleural effusion, which can be noted on auscultation. When an ovarian malignancy is included in a list of diagnostic possibilities, a limited number of laboratory tests are indicated. A complete blood count and serum electrolyte test is usually obtained; when an ovarian cancer is present, these tests often show a high number of platelets (20–25% of people) and low blood sodium levels due to chemical signals secreted by the tumor. A positive test for inhibin A and inhibin B can
The test that reveals cancer sooner [SEP] Ray Thomas // I decided it was time I spoke out. A cancer diagnosis can shake your world and your family's but if caught in time it can be cured or held in remission. I urge all males to get tested NOW. Don't put it off by thinking it won't happen to me. It needs to be caught early. It's only a blood test – a few minutes out your day to save yourself from this disease. Love and God Bless, Ray. In later years Thomas resumed flute playing with other musicians, one instance of which was for the song "L´urlo nelle ossa",
The test that reveals cancer sooner [SEP] Overdiagnosis // only accessible to be detected for a short period of time) – the very cancers we would most like to catch. For more information, see Screening (medicine)#Length time bias. This long-standing model has a hidden assumption: namely, that all cancers inevitably progress. But some pre-clinical cancers will not progress to cause problems for patients. And if screening (or testing for some other reason) detects these cancers, overdiagnosis has occurred. The figure below depicts the heterogeneity of cancer progression using 4 arrows to represent 4 categories of cancer progression. The arrow labeled "Fast" represents a fast-growing cancer, one that quickly leads
The test that reveals cancer sooner [SEP] Cancer research // usually more difficult to treat in later stages. Accurate detection of cancer is also important because false positives can cause harm from unnecessary medical procedures. Some screening protocols are currently not accurate (such as prostate-specific antigen testing). Others such as a colonoscopy or mammogram are unpleasant and as a result some patients may opt out. Active research is underway to address all these problems. One approach is blood screening for a wide variety of tumor markers. Research published in "Cell" suggests future cancer diagnostics to be accomplished at an early stage with a single drop of blood. Emerging topics of
The test that reveals cancer sooner [SEP] Molecular diagnostics // for lifetime risk of breast cancer. Also, some cancers are not always employed with clear symptoms. It is useful to analyze people when they do not show obvious symptoms and thus can detect cancer at early stages. For example, the ColoGuard test may be used to screen people over 55 years old for colorectal cancer. Cancer is a longtime-scale disease with various progression steps, molecular diagnostics tools can be used for prognosis of cancer progression. For example, the OncoType Dx test by Genomic Health can estimate risk of breast cancer. Their technology can inform patients to seek chemotherapy when necessary
The test that reveals cancer sooner [SEP] Georgios Papanikolaou // and stained, it could be determined if cancer cells were present. This was the first screening test to diagnose cervical and uterine cancer. Babeş presented his findings to the Romanian Society of Gynaecology in Bucharest on 23 January 1927. His method of cancer diagnosis was published in a French medical journal, Presse Médicale, on 11 April 1928, but it is unlikely that Papanicolaou was aware of it. Moreover, the two techniques are different in their design. Therefore, although Babes publication preceded Papanicolaou, the design of the Pap test belongs to Papanicolaou since he had already tried it in 1925 in
The test that reveals cancer sooner [SEP] Screening (medicine) // slower-growing tumors have better prognoses than tumors with high growth rates. Screening is more likely to detect slower-growing tumors (due to longer pre-clinical sojourn time), which may be less deadly. Thus screening may tend to detect cancers that would not have killed the patient or even been detected prior to death from other causes. Not everyone will partake in a screening program. There are factors that differ between those willing to get tested and those who are not. If people with a higher risk of a disease are more likely to be screened, for instance women with a family history
The test that reveals cancer sooner [SEP] Overdiagnosis // ordinarily expected lifetime. Cancer screening is the effort to detect cancer early, during its pre-clinical phase — the time period that begins with an abnormal cell and ends when the patient notices symptoms from the cancer. It has long been known that some people have cancers with short pre-clinical phases (fast-growing, aggressive cancers), while others have cancers with long pre-clinical phases (slow-growing cancers). And this heterogeneity has an unfortunate implication: namely, screening tends to disproportionately detect slow-growing cancers (because they are accessible to be detected for a long period of time) and disproportionately miss the fast-growing cancers (because they are
Walmart, Amazon, Kroger, Target and Costco “have not had any reported (coronavirus) cases in the news.” [SEP] Coronavirus // 2013, a case of contamination from human to human in France was confirmed by the French Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. In addition, cases of person-to-person transmission have been reported by the Ministry of Health in Tunisia. Two confirmed cases seem to have caught the disease from their late father, who became ill after a visit to Qatar and Saudi Arabia. By Oct. 30 2013, there were 124 cases and 52 deaths in Saudi Arabia. After the Dutch Erasmus Medical Centre sequenced the virus, the virus was given a new name, Human Corona Virus-Erasmus Medical Centre (HCoV-EMC). The final
Walmart, Amazon, Kroger, Target and Costco “have not had any reported (coronavirus) cases in the news.” [SEP] Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus // and were therefore delaying the development of diagnostic tests. Erasmus MC responded that the patent application did not restrict public health research into MERS coronavirus, and that the virus and diagnostic tests were shipped—free of charge—to all that requested such reagents. There are a number of mapping efforts focused on tracking MERS coronavirus. On 2 May 2014, the Corona Map was launched to track the MERS coronavirus in realtime on the world map. The data is officially reported by WHO or the Ministry of Health of the respective country. HealthMap also tracks case reports with inclusion of news and social
Walmart, Amazon, Kroger, Target and Costco “have not had any reported (coronavirus) cases in the news.” [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // man from the Orlando area, has been reported, and a third Illinois man is as yet asymptomatic but has tested positive for a past infection with the healthcare worker from Indiana. The latter case is the first human-to-human transmission in the United States. On 28 May 2014, the CDC announced that the third person who was found positive for the virus was not infected. The announcement came after a further laboratory analysis by CDC indicating that the person was never infected with the virus. 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak Since 2012, an outbreak of Middle East respiratory syndrome
Walmart, Amazon, Kroger, Target and Costco “have not had any reported (coronavirus) cases in the news.” [SEP] Middle East respiratory syndrome // pneumonia and acute renal failure. After routine diagnostics failed to identify the causative agent, Zaki contacted Ron Fouchier, a leading virologist at the Erasmus Medical Center (EMC) in Rotterdam, the Netherlands, for advice. Fouchier sequenced the virus from a sample sent by Zaki. Fouchier used a broad-spectrum "pan-coronavirus" real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) method to test for distinguishing features of a number of known coronaviruses (such as OC43, 229R, NL63, and SARS-CoV), as well as for RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp), a gene conserved in all coronaviruses known to infect humans. While the screens for known coronaviruses were all negative, the
Walmart, Amazon, Kroger, Target and Costco “have not had any reported (coronavirus) cases in the news.” [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // was referred to the RITM last 4 July 2015. Another person, who was also showing symptoms, was placed in isolation after he had close contact with the said patient; eight others, who also had contacted with the patient, were identified. DOH is in the process of tracking all the people whom the patient had contacted with. The first known case of a previously unknown coronavirus was identified in a 60-year-old Saudi Arabian man with acute pneumonia, who died of renal failure in June 2012. As of 12 May 2013, two more deaths have been reported in the al-Ahsa region of
Walmart, Amazon, Kroger, Target and Costco “have not had any reported (coronavirus) cases in the news.” [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // of unknown origin. Of the six, two died. All the cases were reported to the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC). After the September identification of a novel CoV strain, a retroactive analysis of the hospital workers was performed. Epidemiologists discovered the Jordan cases. Using stored laboratory samples for all six, it was found that samples from the two patients who had died tested positive for nCoV. On 24 April 2014, a 25-year-old male was found positive for the coronavirus. He had history of exposure to camels and had consumed camel milk. The Ministry of Health and Medical
Walmart, Amazon, Kroger, Target and Costco “have not had any reported (coronavirus) cases in the news.” [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // a nurse who came in contact with the deceased patient are suspected to have contracted the disease. The victim's son-in-law is also reported to have been infected. According to Dr. Gooya, the infection of 1 out of the 3 suspected patients is confirmed and more tests are under way to determine the situation of the other two patients. On 7 May 2013, a case was confirmed in Nord departement of France in a man who had previously traveled to Dubai, United Arab Emirates. On 12 May 2013, in a case of human to human transmission, a man previously hospitalized in
Walmart, Amazon, Kroger, Target and Costco “have not had any reported (coronavirus) cases in the news.” [SEP] Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus // similar cases appeared in Qatar and Saudi Arabia. Additional cases were noted, with deaths associated, and rapid research and monitoring of this novel coronavirus began. It is not certain whether the infections are the result of a single zoonotic event with subsequent human-to-human transmission, or if the multiple geographic sites of infection represent multiple zoonotic events from a common unknown source. A study by Ziad Memish of Riyadh University and colleagues suggests that the virus arose sometime between July 2007 and June 2012, with perhaps as many as 7 separate zoonotic transmissions. Among animal reservoirs, CoV has a large genetic
Walmart, Amazon, Kroger, Target and Costco “have not had any reported (coronavirus) cases in the news.” [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // with confirmed cases of a SARS-like virus. The delays in obtaining data and absence of basic information (which would usefully include: sex, age, other medical conditions and smoking status) have been noted and decried by Dr. Margaret Chan and in Pro-Med comments on numerous briefings. At the annual meeting of the world’s health ministers, Dr. Chan, director-general of the World Health Organization, said the virus was now her “greatest concern.” On 28 May 2013, the Saudi Ministry of Health reported five more cases of MERS-CoV. The cases have been "recorded among citizens in the Eastern Region, ranging in age from
Walmart, Amazon, Kroger, Target and Costco “have not had any reported (coronavirus) cases in the news.” [SEP] Middle East respiratory syndrome // care worker who had been in Saudi Arabia a week earlier, and was reported to be in good condition. A second patient who also traveled from Saudi Arabia was reported in Orlando, Florida on 12 May 2014. On 14 May 2014, officials in the Netherlands reported the first case has appeared. On Saturday, 17 May 2014, a man from Illinois who was a business associate of the first U.S. case (he had met and shook hands with the Indiana health care worker) tested positive for the MERS coronavirus, but has not, as of yet, displayed symptoms (others are probably also,
The World Health Organization has listed being single as a disability under their definition of infertility. [SEP] Infertility // couple) may cause considerable anxiety and disappointment. Some respond by actively avoiding the issue altogether; middle-class men are the most likely to respond in this way. In the United States some treatments for infertility, including diagnostic tests, surgery and therapy for depression, can qualify one for Family and Medical Leave Act leave. It has been suggested that infertility be classified as a form of disability. Antisperm antibodies (ASA) have been considered as infertility cause in around 10–30% of infertile couples. In both men and women, ASA production are directed against surface antigens on sperm, which can interfere with sperm motility
The World Health Organization has listed being single as a disability under their definition of infertility. [SEP] Disability and women's health // is recurrent, mental illness, mental deficiency or epilepsy" to consent to the sterilization on their behalf. In Brazil, many healthcare providers and individuals with disabilities both see sterilization as the only option for contraception. A 1996 study regarding pregnant women with disability found that more than 50% of hospitals in the United States could not accommodate women with physical disabilities due to accessibility issues. A study published in the "Journal of Applied Research in Intellectual Disabilities" demonstrated that pregnant women and mothers with ID benefit from the inclusion of a doula both before and after they gave birth. This approach
The World Health Organization has listed being single as a disability under their definition of infertility. [SEP] Infertility // as the inability to conceive after a certain period of time (the length of which vary), so often the two terms overlap. The World Health Organization defines infertility as follows: One definition of infertility that is frequently used in the United States by reproductive endocrinologists, doctors who specialize in infertility, to consider a couple eligible for treatment is: These time intervals would seem to be reversed; this is an area where public policy trumps science. The idea is that for women beyond age 35, every month counts and if made to wait another 6 months to prove the necessity of
The World Health Organization has listed being single as a disability under their definition of infertility. [SEP] Female infertility // the mental health of an infertile woman because of the social pressures and personal grief behind being unable to bear children. Female infertility Female infertility refers to infertility in female humans. It affects an estimated 48 million women with the highest prevalence of infertility affecting people in South Asia, Sub-Saharan Africa, North Africa/Middle East, and Central/Eastern Europe and Central Asia. Infertility is caused by many sources, including nutrition, diseases, and other malformations of the uterus. Infertility affects women from around the world, and the cultural and social stigma surrounding it varies. There is no unanimous definition of female infertility, because
The World Health Organization has listed being single as a disability under their definition of infertility. [SEP] Infertility // Infertility Infertility is the inability of a person, animal or plant to reproduce by natural means. It is usually not the natural state of a healthy adult, except notably among certain eusocial species (mostly haplodiploid insects). In humans, infertility is the inability to become pregnant/impregnate or carry a pregnancy to full term. There are many causes of infertility, including some that medical intervention can treat. Estimates from 1997 suggest that worldwide about five percent of all heterosexual couples have an unresolved problem with infertility. Many more couples, however, experience involuntary childlessness for at least one year: estimates range from 12%
The World Health Organization has listed being single as a disability under their definition of infertility. [SEP] Amir Attaran // a case at the Human Rights Tribunal of Ontario which sought to expand the reproductive rights of women and men by compelling the Ontario Health Insurance Plan to fund "in vitro" fertilization irrespective of sex or disability. Ontario's practice had been to provide IVF only when a woman was infertile, and only where her disability affected the fallopian tubes, thereby excluding other forms of female infertility disability (e.g. cancer, endometriosis), and entirely excluding infertile men. The litigation convinced Ontario to strike an advisory panel on infertility that included Attaran in exchange for him adjourning the hearing, the result of which
The World Health Organization has listed being single as a disability under their definition of infertility. [SEP] Female infertility // to live birth. A clinical definition of infertility by the WHO and ICMART is “a disease of the reproductive system defined by the failure to achieve a clinical pregnancy after 12 months or more of regular unprotected sexual intercourse.” Infertility can further be broken down into primary and secondary infertility. Primary infertility refers to the inability to give birth either because of not being able to become pregnant, or carry a child to live birth, which may include miscarriage or a stillborn child. Female infertility varies widely by geographic location around the world. In 2010, there was an estimated 48.5
The World Health Organization has listed being single as a disability under their definition of infertility. [SEP] Sexuality and disability // disability studies. In society it is widely believed that disabled women are asexual. One reason for this belief is that disabled people are seen as eternal children. Others see the intertwine of sex and disability as an acrobatic act. It is difficult for many people to imagine a disabled person having sex, because of the restricting impairments. Viewing women with disabilities as asexual has its issues. In contemporary United States disabled women are not viewed as physically attractive because society does not view them as sexually desirable. This results in disabled women to be limited and constrained to love and
The World Health Organization has listed being single as a disability under their definition of infertility. [SEP] In vitro fertilisation // cases the genetic father of the child is the woman's partner. Even after menopause the uterus is fully capable of carrying out a pregnancy. A 2009 statement from the ASRM found no persuasive evidence that children are harmed or disadvantaged solely by being raised by single parents, unmarried parents, or homosexual parents. It did not support restricting access to assisted reproductive technologies on the basis of a prospective parent's marital status or sexual orientation. Ethical concerns include reproductive rights, the welfare of offspring, nondiscrimination against unmarried individuals, homosexual, and professional autonomy. A recent controversy in California focused on the question
The World Health Organization has listed being single as a disability under their definition of infertility. [SEP] Infertility // 25 and declines after age 40. The time needed to pass (during which the couple tries to conceive) for that couple to be diagnosed with infertility differs between different jurisdictions. Existing definitions of infertility lack uniformity, rendering comparisons in prevalence between countries or over time problematic. Therefore, data estimating the prevalence of infertility cited by various sources differs significantly. A couple that tries unsuccessfully to have a child after a certain period of time (often a short period, but definitions vary) is sometimes said to be subfertile, meaning less fertile than a typical couple. Both infertility and subfertility are defined
Abortion services are "well over 90 percent of what Planned Parenthood does. [SEP] Planned Parenthood // clinical visits. Roughly 16% of its clients are teenagers. According to PPFA, in 2014 the organization provided 3.6million contraceptive services, 4.5million sexually transmitted infection services, about 1million cancer related services, over 1million pregnancy tests and prenatal services, over 324,000 abortion services, and over 100,000 other services, for a total of 9.5million discrete services. PPFA is well known for providing services to minorities and the poor; according to PPFA, approximately four out of five of their clients have incomes at or below 150percent of the federal poverty level. Services for men's health include STD testing and treatment, vasectomy procedures, and erectile
Abortion services are "well over 90 percent of what Planned Parenthood does. [SEP] Planned Parenthood // over 600 health clinics in the U.S. It partners with organizations in 12 countries globally. The organization directly provides a variety of reproductive health services and sexual education, contributes to research in reproductive technology and advocates for the protection and expansion of reproductive rights. PPFA is the largest single provider of reproductive health services, including abortion, in the U.S. In their 2014 Annual Report, PPFA reported seeing over 2.5million patients in over 4million clinical visits and performing a total of nearly 9.5million discrete services including 324,000 abortions. Its combined annual revenue is , including approximately in government funding such as
Abortion services are "well over 90 percent of what Planned Parenthood does. [SEP] Planned Parenthood // John D. Rockefeller III, Katharine Hepburn, Jane Fonda, Hillary Clinton, and Ted Turner. The services provided by PPFA affiliates vary by location, with just over half of all Planned Parenthood affiliates in the U.S. performing abortions. Services provided by PPFA include birth control and long-acting reversible contraception; emergency contraception; clinical breast examinations; cervical cancer screening; pregnancy testing and pregnancy options counseling; testing and treatment for sexually transmitted infections; sex education; vasectomies; LGBT services; and abortion. Contrary to the assumption of some, Planned Parenthood conducts cancer screenings but does not provide mammograms. In 2013, PPFA reported seeing 2.7million patients in 4.6million
Abortion services are "well over 90 percent of what Planned Parenthood does. [SEP] Planned Parenthood // from other operating revenue. According to Planned Parenthood, 59% of the group's revenue is put towards the provision of health services, while non-medical services such as sex education and public policy work make up another 15%; management expenses, fundraising, and international family planning programs account for about 16%, and 10% of the revenue in 2013–2014 was not spent. Planned Parenthood receives over a third of its money in government grants and contracts (about in 2014). By law (Hyde Amendment), federal funding cannot be allocated for abortions (except in rare cases), but some opponents of abortion have argued that allocating money
Abortion services are "well over 90 percent of what Planned Parenthood does. [SEP] Planned Parenthood // provide abortions. Planned Parenthood is the largest single provider of abortions in the U.S., but pro-choice advocates have argued that the organization's family planning services reduce the need for abortions; in the words of Megan Crepeau of the "Chicago Tribune", Planned Parenthood could be "characterized as America's largest abortion preventer". Pro-life activists dispute the evidence that greater access to contraceptives reduces abortion frequency. Periodically, pro-life advocates and activists have tried to demonstrate that Planned Parenthood does not follow applicable state or federal laws. The groups called or visited Planned Parenthood health centers posing as victims of statutory rape, minors who
Abortion services are "well over 90 percent of what Planned Parenthood does. [SEP] First 100 days of Donald Trump's presidency // perform abortion services as part of family planning in their own countries using non-U.S. government funds. Forbes claimed this could "potentially affect $9.5 billion" in programs that reach "225 million women globally". On April 13, Trump quietly signed H.J. Res. 43—HHS Title X Funding for Planned Parenthood Rule— reversing Obama's December 2016 regulation which had mandated that Title X recipients—like states local and state governments—distribute federal funds for services related to contraception, sexually transmitted infections, fertility, pregnancy care, and breast and cervical cancer screening to qualified health providers, regardless of whether they also perform abortions". "Bloomberg" noted that although this
Abortion services are "well over 90 percent of what Planned Parenthood does. [SEP] Abortion in India // facilities, 11.5 million (73%) were done through medical methods outside facilities, and 5% are expected to have been done through other methods. The study further found the abortion rate at 47 abortions per 1000 women aged 15-49 years. The study highlights the need for strengthening public health system to provide abortion service delivery. This would include ensuring availability of trained providers, including non-allopathic providers by amending the MTP Act and expanding the provider base as well as streamlining availability of drugs and supplies. Another strategy is to streamline the process of approving private-sector facilities to provide CAC services and strengthening
Abortion services are "well over 90 percent of what Planned Parenthood does. [SEP] Family planning // meet the need for family planning services. Only 6.2 million women accessed publicly funded services from 10,700 clinics in 2015, despite an estimated 20 million women who could benefit. Clinics funded by Title X served 3.8 million of these women with access to services.In 2015, publicly funded contraceptive services helped women prevent 1.9 million unintended pregnancies; 876,100 of these would have resulted in unplanned births and 628,000 abortions. Without publicly funded contraceptive services, the rates of unintended pregnancies, unplanned births and abortions would have been 67% higher. The rates for teens would have been 102% higher. Title X funded programs
Abortion services are "well over 90 percent of what Planned Parenthood does. [SEP] Abby Johnson (activist) // 3% of Planned Parenthood's services. Fox News reported that Johnson was unable to provide any documentation or other evidence to support her allegations about pressure to perform abortions. Johnson's description of her conversion has been questioned. Planned Parenthood stated that its records do not show any ultrasound-guided abortions performed on the date Johnson says she witnessed the procedure, and the physician who performed abortions at the Bryan clinic stated that Johnson had never been asked to assist in an abortion. Although Johnson said the abortion was of a 13-week-old fetus, records from the Texas Department of Health show no such
Abortion services are "well over 90 percent of what Planned Parenthood does. [SEP] Pregnancy options counseling in the United States // lives. In the United States, three out of ten women have an abortion by the time they are forty-five years old. Throughout the world, about twenty to thirty million legal abortions are performed each year. Another ten to twenty million more are performed illegally. According to E Medicine Health, illegal abortions are unsafe and are responsible for thirteen percent of deaths in women. There are different requirements for women who wish to access abortion services. If someone is under eighteen, the person's state may require parental consent from one or both parents for the abortion to be carried out. In
Pfizer: New cancer pill gives hope, new strategy [SEP] Sunitinib // a treatment. Between April 2009 and May 2011 Pfizer has reported unsuccessful late-stage trials in breast cancer, metastatic colorectal cancer, advanced non-small-cell lung cancer, and castration-resistant prostate cancer. The drug was discovered at SUGEN, a biotechnology company which pioneered protein kinase inhibitors. It was the third in a series of compounds including SU5416 and SU6668. The concept was of an ATP mimic that would compete with ATP for binding to the catalytic site of receptor tyrosine kinases. This concept led to the invention of many small-molecule tyrosine kinase inhibitors, including Gleevec, Sutent, Tarceva and many others. Sunitinib adverse events are
Pfizer: New cancer pill gives hope, new strategy [SEP] Ian Read // tags for breakthrough drugs and yet keep Pfizer’s pricing power more or less intact. Doing so is absolutely critical: 34% of Pfizer’s revenue growth over the past three years has come from increasing prices on existing drugs, according to SSR, a Stamford, Conn.-based consulting firm. New medicines, especially for cancer, are selling for $100,000-plus–prices that were unimaginable five years ago." Read has a holiday home near Bonita Springs, Florida. Ian Read Ian C. Read (born 1953) is a Scottish-born American business executive, a chartered accountant, and the chairman and chief executive officer (CEO) of Pfizer, serving since 2010.. He will
Pfizer: New cancer pill gives hope, new strategy [SEP] Axitinib // 2012), UK MHRA (3 September 2012) and Australian TGA (26 July 2012) . A Phase II clinical trial showed good response in combination chemotherapy with gemcitabine for advanced pancreatic cancer. However, Pfizer reported on January 30, 2009 that Phase III clinical trials of the drug when used in combination with gemcitabine showed no evidence of improved survival rates over treatments using gemcitabine alone for advanced pancreatic cancer and halted the trial. In 2010, a Phase III trial for previously treated metastatic renal cell carcinoma (mRCC) showed significantly extended progression-free survival when compared to sorafenib. In December 2011, the Oncologic Drugs
Pfizer: New cancer pill gives hope, new strategy [SEP] Fred Hassan // In July 2002, Pfizer approached PHA with a 44 percent premium and a $62 billion merger was announced. Shortly after the merger closed in April 2003, Hassan took over as chairman and CEO of Schering Plough, a struggling pharmaceutical company. As chairman and CEO of Schering Plough, Hassan oversaw resolution of multiple legal, regulatory, research and development, and operational challenges and was able to declare a company turnaround by 2005. In 2007, Schering Plough acquired Organon, a Dutch company and. Successful innovations came from Organon's research and development, including Keytruda (cancer), Implanon (long acting contraception) and Bridion (faster recovery from
Pfizer: New cancer pill gives hope, new strategy [SEP] Lung cancer // factor receptor (EGFR) and anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) tyrosine kinase inhibitors, new drugs are in development. New EGFR inhibitors include afatinib and dacomitinib. An alternative signaling pathway, c-Met, can be inhibited by tivantinib and onartuzumab. New ALK inhibitors include crizotinib and ceritinib. If the MAPK/ERK pathway is involved, the BRAF kinase inhibitor dabrafenib and the MAPK/MEK inhibitor trametinib may be beneficial. Lung cancer stem cells are often resistant to conventional chemotherapy and radiotherapy. This may lead to relapse after treatment. New approaches target protein or glycoprotein markers that are specific to the stem cells. Such markers include CD133, CD90, ALDH1A1,
Pfizer: New cancer pill gives hope, new strategy [SEP] Lorlatinib // Lorlatinib Lorlatinib (PF-6463922) is an anti-neoplastic drug developed by Pfizer. It is an orally-administered small molecule inhibitor of ROS1 and ALK. In 2015, FDA granted Pfizer orphan drug status for lorlatinib for the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer. Lorlatinib is able to cross the blood-brain barrier. Several clinical trials are ongoing. A phase II trial comparing avelumab alone and in combination with lorlatinib or crizotinib for non-small cell lung cancer is expected to be complete in late 2017. A phase II trial comparing lorlatinib with crizotinib is expected to be complete in mid-2018. A phase II trial for treatment
Pfizer: New cancer pill gives hope, new strategy [SEP] Pfizer // was reported that Pfizer had reignited a $100 billion takeover bid for the UK-based AstraZeneca, sparking political controversy in the UK, as well as in the US. On May 19, 2014, a "final offer" of £55 a share was rejected by the AstraZeneca board, which said the bid was too low and imposed too many risks. If successful, the takeover—the biggest in British history—would have made Pfizer the world's largest drug company. Hopes for a renewed bid later in the year were dashed when Pfizer signed a major cancer drug deal with Merck KGaA, selling its sharing rights to develop
Pfizer: New cancer pill gives hope, new strategy [SEP] Specialty drugs in the United States // results". Shortly after the law was enacted, Ivacaftor, in January 2013, became the first drug to receive the breakthrough therapy designation. On February 3, 2015 New York-based Pfizer's drug Ibrance was approved through the FDA's Breakthrough Therapy designation program as a treatment for advanced breast cancer. It can only be ordered through specialty pharmacies and sells for "$9,850 for a month or $118,200 per year". According to a statement by the New York-based Pfizer the price "is not the cost that most patients or payors pay" since most prescriptions are dispensed through health plans, which negotiate discounts for medicines or
Pfizer: New cancer pill gives hope, new strategy [SEP] Treatment of lung cancer // in non-small cell lung cancer and was approved by the FDA in 2004 for second-line treatment of advanced non-small cell lung carcinoma. Similar to gefitinib, it also appeared to work best in females, Asians, nonsmokers, and those with bronchioloalveolar carcinoma, particularly those with specific mutations in EGFR. The angiogenesis inhibitor bevacizumab (Avastin), (in combination with paclitaxel and carboplatin), improves the survival of patients with advanced non-small cell lung carcinoma. However, this increases the risk of lung bleeding, particularly in patients with squamous cell carcinoma. Crizotinib shows benefit in a subset of non-small cell lung cancer that is characterized by the
Pfizer: New cancer pill gives hope, new strategy [SEP] Lilly Tartikoff // Alliance (NCCRA) in March 2000. In 2001, she launched the United Cancer Front. Dr. Slamon is the organization's Chief Scientific Director. Like those funds raised to help expedite the development of Herceptin, the United Cancer Front helped to raise badly needed, unrestricted funds to accelerate scientific discovery and delivery of breakthrough cancer therapies. In October 2000 in Washington, D.C., she received the Hope Award from the National Coalition for Cancer Survivorship. In 2002 NCCS created the Lilly Tartikoff Hope Award to honor, remember and celebrate all whose lives have been touched by cancer. In October 2003, Lilly, Yves Carcelle (of
Scramble for masks as Italian region orders coronavirus cover-up. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // being followed up. On 31 May 2013, the Italian health ministry announced its first case of MERS-CoV in a 45-year-old man who had traveled to Jordan. The patient is being currently treated in a hospital in Tuscany and his condition was reported as not life-threatening. On 1 November 2013, a woman who had recently traveled to Saudi Arabia for the Hajj, contracted the disease. She is stated to be in stable condition, and investigators from the World Health Organization are investigating whom she came in contact with. In February 2013, the first UK case of the novel coronavirus was confirmed
Scramble for masks as Italian region orders coronavirus cover-up. [SEP] Severe acute respiratory syndrome // SARS victims. In late May 2003, studies were conducted using samples of wild animals sold as food in the local market in Guangdong, China. The results found that the SARS coronavirus could be isolated from masked palm civets ("Paguma" sp.), even if the animals did not show clinical signs of the virus. The preliminary conclusion was the SARS virus crossed the xenographic barrier from asian palm civet to humans, and more than 10,000 masked palm civets were killed in Guangdong Province. The virus was also later found in raccoon dogs ("Nyctereuteus" sp.), ferret badgers ("Melogale" spp.), and domestic cats. In
Scramble for masks as Italian region orders coronavirus cover-up. [SEP] SARS coronavirus // as human SARS victims. In late May 2003, studies from samples of wild animals sold as food in the local market in Guangdong, China, found the SARS coronavirus could be isolated from masked palm civets ("Paguma" sp.), but the animals did not always show clinical signs. The preliminary conclusion was the SARS virus crossed the xenographic barrier from palm civet to humans, and more than 10,000 masked palm civets were killed in Guangdong Province. Virus was also later found in raccoon dogs ("Nyctereuteus" sp.), ferret badgers ("Melogale" spp.), and domestic cats. In 2005, two studies identified a number of SARS-like
Scramble for masks as Italian region orders coronavirus cover-up. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // coronavirus researcher at the Erasmus Medical Center (EMC) in Rotterdam, The Netherlands. The second laboratory-proven case was in London, confirmed by the UK Health Protection Agency (HPA). The HPA named the virus the London1_novel CoV 2012. On 8 November 2012, in an article published in the New England Journal of Medicine, Dr. Zaki and co-authors from the Erasmus Medical Center published more details, including a scientific name, Human Coronavirus-Erasmus Medical Center (HCoV-EMC), which was then used in scientific literature. In the article, they noted four respiratory human coronaviruses (HCoV) known to be endemic: 229E, OC43, NL63, and HKU1. In May
Scramble for masks as Italian region orders coronavirus cover-up. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // MERS had infected at least 60 people with cases reported in Jordan, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates (UAE), Tunisia, Germany, the United Kingdom (UK), France and Italy, with a death toll of 38. Saudi officials expressed great concern that millions of Muslims from around the world would potentially be exposed to the virus during the autumn Hajj, or pilgrimage to Mecca. In May 2014, the WHO said it was monitoring the situation as global cases of MERS appeared to be on the rise, but said the situation did not yet constitute a health emergency. On 3 June 2014,
Scramble for masks as Italian region orders coronavirus cover-up. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // a nurse who came in contact with the deceased patient are suspected to have contracted the disease. The victim's son-in-law is also reported to have been infected. According to Dr. Gooya, the infection of 1 out of the 3 suspected patients is confirmed and more tests are under way to determine the situation of the other two patients. On 7 May 2013, a case was confirmed in Nord departement of France in a man who had previously traveled to Dubai, United Arab Emirates. On 12 May 2013, in a case of human to human transmission, a man previously hospitalized in
Scramble for masks as Italian region orders coronavirus cover-up. [SEP] Coronavirus // 2013, a case of contamination from human to human in France was confirmed by the French Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. In addition, cases of person-to-person transmission have been reported by the Ministry of Health in Tunisia. Two confirmed cases seem to have caught the disease from their late father, who became ill after a visit to Qatar and Saudi Arabia. By Oct. 30 2013, there were 124 cases and 52 deaths in Saudi Arabia. After the Dutch Erasmus Medical Centre sequenced the virus, the virus was given a new name, Human Corona Virus-Erasmus Medical Centre (HCoV-EMC). The final
Scramble for masks as Italian region orders coronavirus cover-up. [SEP] Masked palm civet // and in humans working at the same market. In 2006, scientists from the Chinese Centre for Disease Control and Prevention of the University of Hong Kong and the Guangzhou Centre for Disease Control and Prevention established a direct genetic link between the SARS coronavirus appearing in civets and humans, bearing out claims that the disease had jumped across species. A later study revealed that the sequences of many SARS genomes show that the civets' cases of SARS were just one part of the family tree of SARS viruses in humans — probably humans got SARS from bats, then humans gave
Scramble for masks as Italian region orders coronavirus cover-up. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // 2013, the Coronavirus Study Group of the International Committee on Taxonomy of Viruses adopted the official designation, the Middle East Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus (MERS-CoV). which was adopted by the World Health Organization to "provide uniformity and facilitate communication about the disease" By May 2013, 10 of the 22 people who died and 22 of 44 cases reported were in Saudi Arabia and over 80% were male. This gender disparity is thought to be because most women in Saudi Arabia wear veils that cover the mouth and nose, decreasing their chances of being exposed to the virus. By 19 June 2013,
Scramble for masks as Italian region orders coronavirus cover-up. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // said virus. The Evangelista Medical Hospital in San Pedro, Laguna, the facility where the patient was first admitted, was temporarily closed by DOH for fourteen days. On 17 February 2015, all those who had exposure or had contact with the said nurse were tested negative of the said virus. On 6 March 2015, The Department of Foreign Affairs confirmed three Filipino female healthcare workers in Saudi Arabia who were infected with MERS-CoV. On 6 July 2015, DOH confirmed the second detected case of MERS-CoV in the country. The patient who had contracted the virus was from the Middle East and
Trump’s cuts to Medicare hospital payments trigger an outcry. [SEP] Economic policy of Donald Trump // and "nonsense figure" because it was four times the entire cost of the Medicare prescription-drug system. Trump abandoned the plan in May 2018, as well as his campaign promise to allow Americans to import cheaper pharmaceuticals from foreign countries. Unlike his rivals in the 2016 Republican primary race, Trump opposes cuts in Social Security and Medicare benefits. This is a departure from Trump's earlier views; in his book published in 2000, Trump called Social Security a "Ponzi scheme" and said it should be privatized. Trump previously proposed raising the Social Security retirement age to 70 from 67, but he backed
Trump’s cuts to Medicare hospital payments trigger an outcry. [SEP] Presidency of Donald Trump // throughout his presidency, Trump said he would cut the costs of pharmaceuticals. During his first seven months in office, there were 96 price hikes for every drug price cut. In May 2018, Trump announced that he would not allow Medicare to use its bargaining power to negotiate lower drug prices from pharmaceutical companies, abandoning a promise he made as candidate. Shortly after the 2018 mid-term elections, the large pharmaceutical company Pfizer announced a price increase for dozens of drugs, after it had reportedly bowed to pressure not to do so earlier by the Trump administration. In September 2017, Trump nominated
Trump’s cuts to Medicare hospital payments trigger an outcry. [SEP] Economic policy of Donald Trump // measures that would reduce the value of the existing debt, making it cheaper to repurchase, would increase the cost of issuing new debt. Such a threat also could undermine the stability of global financial markets." Trump has called for allowing Medicare to negotiate directly with prescription-drug companies to get lower prices for the Medicare Part D prescription-drug benefit, something currently prohibited by law. Trump has claimed on several occasions that this proposal would save $300 billion a year. Glenn Kessler, the fact-checker for the "Washington Post", gave this statement a "four Pinocchios" rating, writing that this was a "truly absurd"
Trump’s cuts to Medicare hospital payments trigger an outcry. [SEP] First 100 days of Donald Trump's presidency // a product where there's not even a safety problem. So it's crazy. I'm surprised you can't get them to move faster than that." Trump had promised in March 2016, to reform the pharmaceutical industry, including the removal of existing free market barriers to allow imported, dependable, safe, reliable, and cheaper drugs from overseas, bringing more options to American consumers. Following Trump's press conference on January 11, "Fortune" claimed that the largest pharmaceutical companies had lost over $20 billion in 20 minutes. The Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act (2003) expressly prohibited Medicare from negotiating bulk prescription drug prices and
Trump’s cuts to Medicare hospital payments trigger an outcry. [SEP] First 100 days of Donald Trump's presidency // U.S. Steel's Mario Longhi, SpaceX's Elon Musk, International Paper's Mark Sutton, and Corning's Wendell Weeks promised to reward the companies who stay in the United States with aggressive cuts on U.S. federal regulations governing their companies by "75 percent or more." On January 31, Trump met with CEOs of pharmaceutical firms, including Novartis's Joseph Jimenez who also represented the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America—the pharmaceutical industry's powerful lobbying group, Merck & Co.'s Kenneth Frazier, Johnson & Johnson, Celgene's Robert Hugin, Eli Lilly, Amgen's Robert Bradway. Trump called for lower prices, "We have no choice. For Medicare, for Medicaid. We
Trump’s cuts to Medicare hospital payments trigger an outcry. [SEP] Economic policy of Donald Trump // years; not cut Social Security or Medicare; increase defense spending; and enact tax cuts that would lose $9.5 trillion of revenues over the next decade. Economist Jared Bernstein notes that it is mathematically impossible to fulfill all of these pledges, writing: "Trump would need to cut spending outside the Social Security, Medicare, and defense by 114 percent to make his budget balance, which is, of course, impossible." Bernstein, a senior fellow at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, stated a proposal "loses probably something in the neighborhood of $5 trillion in revenue over 10 years with regressive tax cuts
Trump’s cuts to Medicare hospital payments trigger an outcry. [SEP] Bipartisan Health Care Stabilization Act of 2017 // This was among the actions taken by President Trump to start to dismantle the Affordable Care Act after Congress had failed to repeal it earlier in 2017. Trump had received warnings against this move from members of both parties, including one Republican senator who told him that the Republican Party would effectively “own health care” as a political issue if the president cancelled the CSR payments, but he moved forward with it anyway. The CBO reported in August 2017 (prior to President Trump's decision) that ending the CSR payments would increase ACA premiums by about 20 percentage points in 2018,
Trump’s cuts to Medicare hospital payments trigger an outcry. [SEP] Presidency of Donald Trump // commit to continuing paying ACA subsidies, which added uncertainty to the insurance market and led insurers to raise premiums for fear they will not get subsidized. In June 2018, the administration sided with a lawsuit to overturn the ACA, including protections for individuals with pre-existing conditions. On October 4, 2018, Trump stated “Some of the Democrats have been talking about ending (coverage for) pre-existing conditions,” and 20 days later he tweeted “Republicans will totally protect people with Pre-Existing Conditions, Democrats will not!” Politifact rated Trump's statement about Democrats as “Pants on Fire,” also noting that eighteen attorneys general and two
Trump’s cuts to Medicare hospital payments trigger an outcry. [SEP] First 100 days of Donald Trump's presidency // the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office and staff of the Joint Committee on Taxation (JCT) on the budgetary impact of the Republican bill to repeal and replace ACA over the coming decade, there would be a $337 billion reduction in the federal deficit and an estimated loss of coverage to 24 million more Americans. The Republican health-care plan was unveiled on March 6 and faced opposition from both moderate and conservative Republicans, such as the House Freedom Caucus. The American Health Care Act of 2017 (AHCA), a bill to repeal and replace the ACA, was withdrawn in Congress on March 24,
Trump’s cuts to Medicare hospital payments trigger an outcry. [SEP] Mick Mulvaney // 51–49. During his tenure as OMB Director, Mulvaney sought to influence President Donald Trump to cut Social Security and Medicare. When he introduced himself to Gary Cohn, who was then Trump's chief economic advisor, Mulvaney said, "Hi, I'm a right-wing nutjob." While Mulvaney was known for his professed support for fiscal conservatism as a congressman, under Mulvaney's tenure as OMB Director there was a dramatic expansion in the deficit as a result of both spending increases and tax cuts. The deficits were unusually high for a period of economic expansion. In March 2017, Mulvaney stated that he believed that "the
Some of these members of the House of Representatives get hundreds of thousands of dollars in farm subsidies" but want to cut food stamps. [SEP] United States farm bill // these farm owners were then-members of Congress and other public figures, including former president Jimmy Carter, who received thousands of dollars in direct payments. In 2007, it was found that about 62 percent of farmers do not receive subsidies from the farm bill. In 2012, while writing the new farm bill, known as the Agriculture Reform, Food and Jobs Act, Congress proposed many ways to cut down the overall cost of the bill, including stricter eligibility standards for food stamps and moving away from direct payments to farmers. However, food stamps and nutrition remained the largest portion of the bill's
Some of these members of the House of Representatives get hundreds of thousands of dollars in farm subsidies" but want to cut food stamps. [SEP] Stephen Fincher // contribution from the NRA; more than any other US Senator or Representative. In May 2013, Fincher argued for large cuts to the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), formerly known as the Food Stamp program along with his House Republican colleagues. Fincher, who owns a farm, has received over $3.5 million in agricultural subsidies from the federal government. Critics accused Fincher of hypocrisy. Fincher voted to cut farm subsidies (also known as direct payments) in this year's Farm Bill, the first Farm Bill he has voted on while in Congress. The following is an incomplete list of bills sponsored by Fincher
Some of these members of the House of Representatives get hundreds of thousands of dollars in farm subsidies" but want to cut food stamps. [SEP] History of agriculture in the United States // Congress. So the well-organized Farm Bureau and other lobbyists, worked in the 1970s to appeal to urban Congressman through food stamp programs for the poor. By 2000, the food stamp program was the largest component of the farm bill. In 2010, the Tea Party movement brought in many Republicans committed to cutting all federal subsidies, including those agriculture. Meanwhile, urban Democrats strongly opposed reductions, pointing to the severe hardships caused by the 2008–10 economic recession. The Agricultural Act of 2014 saw many rural Republican Congressman voting against the program; it passed with bipartisan support. For example, the entire Kansas Republican
Some of these members of the House of Representatives get hundreds of thousands of dollars in farm subsidies" but want to cut food stamps. [SEP] Collin Peterson // subsidies went to the congressional districts of members on the House Committee on Agriculture, an analysis by the non-partisan Environmental Working Group found. That was 42.4% of the total subsidies. Peterson is reported to have brought $874 million to his District. In Peterson's district, which includes sugar beets, wheat and poultry, 58% of the $2.8 billion paid out in crop subsidies from 1995 to 2005 went to 10% of recipients, according to the Environmental Working Group, which tracks farm spending. The chairman says he has no problem with that. "Ten percent of the farmers produce 90% of the food," he
Some of these members of the House of Representatives get hundreds of thousands of dollars in farm subsidies" but want to cut food stamps. [SEP] United States farm bill // size. The proposed 2013 bill would cut funding to SNAP by about $400 million a year, which amounts to half a percent of spending from previous years. Under an amendment introduced by Senators Dick Durbin (D-Ill.) and Tom Coburn (R-Okla.), it would also reduce crop insurance subsidies by 15 percent for the top 1 percent of U.S. wealthiest farmers, those with a gross annual income of more than $750,000. The new bill also proposed a new insurance program for dairy producers which would cut costs by eliminating other dairy subsidies and price supports. The 2013 farm bill was approved in
Some of these members of the House of Representatives get hundreds of thousands of dollars in farm subsidies" but want to cut food stamps. [SEP] Marilyn Musgrave // 1989 by Pat Robertson and is dedicated to helping give conservative Christians a voice in their government. From 2003 through 2005, $14.7 billion in crop subsidies went to the congressional districts of members on the House Committee on Agriculture, an analysis by the non-partisan Environmental Working Group found. That was 42.4% of the total subsidies. Musgrave is reported to have brought $330 million to her district. Marilyn Musgrave Marilyn Neoma Musgrave (née Shuler; born January 27, 1949), American politician, is a former Republican member of the United States House of Representatives who served from 2003 to 2009, representing the 4th
Some of these members of the House of Representatives get hundreds of thousands of dollars in farm subsidies" but want to cut food stamps. [SEP] Agricultural Act of 2014 // 850,000 households will lose $90/month in benefits. However, the bill increases funding to food banks by $200 million. SNAP is the largest portion of spending in the bill. The $8 billion in cuts comes from setting a minimum of $20 per year for the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) to receive the Standard Utility Allowance (SUA) deduction, disallow medical marijuana as a deduction and ruling that lottery winners and persons convicted of certain crimes (murder, aggravated sexual abuse, sexual assault, and sexual exploitation and other abuse of children) can't get food stamps. However, the bill would start a
Some of these members of the House of Representatives get hundreds of thousands of dollars in farm subsidies" but want to cut food stamps. [SEP] Sam Donaldson // a column entitled ""As Congress Considers Slashing Crop Subsidies, Affluent Urban Farmers Come Under Scrutiny"", where he named Donaldson as one of the wealthy, absentee beneficiaries of Federal subsidies, the "third largest recipient" of Federal funds in his area. During the debate in Congress over whether to cut "pork", this article was read into the record, and Donaldson was chastised by Senator Al D'Amato to "Give the money back", a phrase repeated multiple times in his floor speech and elsewhere. There were claims that Donaldson received as much as one million dollars in subsidies. The real number turned out to
Some of these members of the House of Representatives get hundreds of thousands of dollars in farm subsidies" but want to cut food stamps. [SEP] United States farm bill // cost, amounting to a proposed $768.2 billion over ten years. The 2012 bill ultimately failed to pass in the House, which caused Congress to extend the 2008 bill until September 30, 2013. This was enacted as part of the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, passed by Congress on January 1, 2013 and signed into law the next day by President Barack Obama. (Public Law No: 112-240) Between the passage of the 2008 farm bill and the creation of the 2013 bill, the food stamp program changed its name to the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), and nearly doubled in
Some of these members of the House of Representatives get hundreds of thousands of dollars in farm subsidies" but want to cut food stamps. [SEP] United States House Select Committee on the Voting Irregularities of August 2, 2007 // a procedural "motion to recommit with instructions" vote on the FY2008 agriculture appropriations bill (H.R.3161). The motion would have sent the spending bill back to the House Appropriations Committee, requiring the legislation to include provisions barring food stamps for illegal immigrants, before returning to the House floor. GOP members contested the vote when the presiding chair, Rep. Michael McNulty (D-N.Y.), called the vote in favor of the Democrats prematurely. During the voting, three different vote tallies came up, due to members changing their votes, two having defeated the measure, and one having passed. When McNulty initially gaveled the vote to
Hundreds of Americans flown home from cruise ship, 14 with coronavirus. [SEP] Cruise ship // passengers and 0.15% of some 28 million crew members reported symptoms of the illness." The estimated likelihood of contracting gastroenteritis from any cause on an average 7-day cruise is less than 1%. In 2009, during which more than 13 million people took a cruise, there were nine reported norovirus outbreaks on cruise ships. Outbreak investigations by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention have shown that transmission among cruise ship passengers is primarily person-to-person; potable water supplies have not been implicated. In 2009, ships undergoing unannounced inspections in U.S. ports received an average CDC Vessel Sanitation Program score of
Hundreds of Americans flown home from cruise ship, 14 with coronavirus. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // have been at least 3800 quarantined. On 16 April 2014, Malaysia reported its first MERS-COV related death. The person was a 54-year-old man who had traveled to Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, together with pilgrimage group composed of 18 people, from 15–28 March 2014. He became ill by 4 April, and sought remedy at a clinic in Johor on 7 April. He was hospitalized by 9 April and died on 13 April. On May 11, 2014, two persons on Medan were suspected infected by MERS-Cov (Middle Eastern Respiratory Syndrome-Corona Virus). On 31 October 2013, the World Health Organization (WHO) confirmed that one
Hundreds of Americans flown home from cruise ship, 14 with coronavirus. [SEP] Middle East respiratory syndrome // care worker who had been in Saudi Arabia a week earlier, and was reported to be in good condition. A second patient who also traveled from Saudi Arabia was reported in Orlando, Florida on 12 May 2014. On 14 May 2014, officials in the Netherlands reported the first case has appeared. On Saturday, 17 May 2014, a man from Illinois who was a business associate of the first U.S. case (he had met and shook hands with the Indiana health care worker) tested positive for the MERS coronavirus, but has not, as of yet, displayed symptoms (others are probably also,
Hundreds of Americans flown home from cruise ship, 14 with coronavirus. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // decided to perform a test on him, and fortunately, as well for the comfort of everybody, the findings of our Research Institute for Tropical Medicine, he tested negative." In the said press release, DOH also announced that they are tracking all other 414 passengers of Etihad Airways Flight 424 (the flight the OFW took from Abu Dhabi, UAE to Manila) in order to be tested. On 11 February 2015, a 32-year-old Filipino nurse from Saudi Arabia, who was also 1 month pregnant, was the country's first MERS-CoV case, DOH confirmed after the test turned out to be positive of the
Hundreds of Americans flown home from cruise ship, 14 with coronavirus. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // government, in November 2013, reported a woman in Spain, who had recently traveled to Saudi Arabia for the Islamic pilgrimage, contracted the disease. On 14 April 2014, one Filipino paramedic died in the United Arab Emirates, with six other reported to be infected with the virus. On 17 April, the UAE Ministry of Health reported another fatality and four additional cases, including the Filipino medical worker who travelled to the Philippines on 16 April. On 21 April 2014, the Health Ministry of UAE reported an additional 9 cases. In April 2012, six hospital workers were diagnosed with acute respiratory failure
Hundreds of Americans flown home from cruise ship, 14 with coronavirus. [SEP] Pacific Aria // Diego from a ten-day tour with 110 passengers sickened from a norovirus outbreak. A CDC report filed later that year listed 40 violations. On 27 November 2010, an intoxicated passenger released "Ryndam"'s stern anchor while the ship was in international waters "en route" to Florida. No damage to the ship was reported. In April 2015 two passengers on board the ship were found dead in their cabin by cruise staff. At approximately 11.30am local time two guests on board MS Ryndam were found deceased in their stateroom in what appears to be a murder-suicide, said the statement from Holland America
Hundreds of Americans flown home from cruise ship, 14 with coronavirus. [SEP] Coronavirus // 2013, a case of contamination from human to human in France was confirmed by the French Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. In addition, cases of person-to-person transmission have been reported by the Ministry of Health in Tunisia. Two confirmed cases seem to have caught the disease from their late father, who became ill after a visit to Qatar and Saudi Arabia. By Oct. 30 2013, there were 124 cases and 52 deaths in Saudi Arabia. After the Dutch Erasmus Medical Centre sequenced the virus, the virus was given a new name, Human Corona Virus-Erasmus Medical Centre (HCoV-EMC). The final
Hundreds of Americans flown home from cruise ship, 14 with coronavirus. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // in Manchester in an elderly man who had recently visited the Middle East and Pakistan; it was the 10th case globally. The man's son, whom he visited in the hospital in Birmingham, was immuno-suppressed because of a brain tumour, and contracted the virus, providing the first clear evidence for person-to-person transmission. He died on 19 February 2013. The second patient was a 49-year-old Qatari man who had visited Saudi Arabia before falling ill. He was flown privately by air ambulance from Doha to London on 11 September where he was admitted to St Mary's Hospital and later was transferred to
Hundreds of Americans flown home from cruise ship, 14 with coronavirus. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // and from that family at least one additional person presented similar symptoms but tested negative for the novel coronavirus. On 21 February 2013, WHO stated that there had been 13 laboratory-confirmed cases, 6 cases (4 fatal) from Saudi Arabia, 2 cases (both fatal) from Jordan, 2 cases from Qatar, and 3 from the UK. In March 2013, the Saudi Arabia Ministry of Health reported the death of a 39-year-old man, the 15th case and 9th death reported to WHO. On 2 May 2013, the Saudi Ministry of Health announced five people died and two other people were in critical condition
Hundreds of Americans flown home from cruise ship, 14 with coronavirus. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // MERS had infected at least 60 people with cases reported in Jordan, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates (UAE), Tunisia, Germany, the United Kingdom (UK), France and Italy, with a death toll of 38. Saudi officials expressed great concern that millions of Muslims from around the world would potentially be exposed to the virus during the autumn Hajj, or pilgrimage to Mecca. In May 2014, the WHO said it was monitoring the situation as global cases of MERS appeared to be on the rise, but said the situation did not yet constitute a health emergency. On 3 June 2014,
In July 2020, U.S. Education Secretary Betsy DeVos said "only" .02% of the country's K-12 school students — totaling 14,740 children and teens — are likely to die from COVID-19 when and if schools fully reopen. [SEP] Julia Keleher // more schools, starting on a weekly basis and then on a daily basis. As of November 13, 2017, a total of 755 schools had been re-opened, many of them without power but with running water. Keleher had first estimated that 80% of the schools would be open by mid-November; it turned out that a total of 932 schools (84%) had re-opened by November 16. The PRDE adjusted the school calendar so that students would be able to complete the academic year. Keleher has argued that the hurricane provided Puerto Rico with an "opportunity" to reform the public school system, citing
In July 2020, U.S. Education Secretary Betsy DeVos said "only" .02% of the country's K-12 school students — totaling 14,740 children and teens — are likely to die from COVID-19 when and if schools fully reopen. [SEP] School shooting // have lost a at least one parent. In the U.S., the rate of parental death before age 16 is 8%. The rate of parental death is disproportionately high for prisoners (30%-50%), however, it is also disproportionately high for high-performing scientists (26%) and US presidents (34%). Harvard's Baker Foundation Professor, Emerita, Dr. Teresa M. Amabile states, "Those kinds of events can crush a child, they can lead to a lot of problems; they can lead to substance abuse, they can lead to various forms of emotional illness. They can also lead to incredible resilience and almost superhuman behaviors, seemingly, if people
In July 2020, U.S. Education Secretary Betsy DeVos said "only" .02% of the country's K-12 school students — totaling 14,740 children and teens — are likely to die from COVID-19 when and if schools fully reopen. [SEP] School shooting // higher likelihood of being premeditated and executed with a strict plan in mind. A study by Northeastern University found that "four times the number of children were killed in schools in the early 1990s than today". On August 27, 2018, NPR reported that a U.S. Education Department report, released earlier in the year, for the 2015-2016 school year said "nearly 240 schools ... reported at least 1 incident involving a school-related shooting". However, when NPR researched this 'claim', it could confirm only 11 actual incidents. School shootings are a "uniquely American crisis", according to "The Washington Post" in 2018. School
In July 2020, U.S. Education Secretary Betsy DeVos said "only" .02% of the country's K-12 school students — totaling 14,740 children and teens — are likely to die from COVID-19 when and if schools fully reopen. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic in the United States // based on previous CDC guidance related to this outbreak may reopen. By that time at least 726 schools nationwide serving more than 480,000 students had closed for at least some period of time. The CDC amended its advice citing, new information on disease severity and the limiting effectiveness of school closure as a control measure. The new advice given stated, "Decisions about school closure should be at the discretion of local authorities based on local considerations, including public concern and the impact of school absenteeism and staffing shortages." The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) authorized emergency use of medicines and
In July 2020, U.S. Education Secretary Betsy DeVos said "only" .02% of the country's K-12 school students — totaling 14,740 children and teens — are likely to die from COVID-19 when and if schools fully reopen. [SEP] Richard Garfield (nursing professor) // or food." Welch reported his updated conclusion: Between August, 1991, and March, 1998, there were between 106,000 and 227,000 excess deaths of children under five. Recently, he has estimated the latter, less conservative number at 500,000 plus between 1990 and 2002. The chief causes? "Contaminated water, lack of high-quality foods, inadequate breast-feeding, poor weaning practices and inadequate supplies in the curative health care system. This was the product of both a lack of some essential goods, and inadequate or inefficient use of existing essential goods." And, of course, sanctions. "Even a small number of documentable excess deaths is an expression
In July 2020, U.S. Education Secretary Betsy DeVos said "only" .02% of the country's K-12 school students — totaling 14,740 children and teens — are likely to die from COVID-19 when and if schools fully reopen. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic in Mexico // is reported that, because the virus is already widespread, containment will be impossible. As of April 27, 2009, all schools nationwide remained closed until at least May 6. Health Minister Córdova noted that the number of new cases had declined during the three days: from 141 on Saturday to 119 on Sunday and 110 on Monday. It is unclear why there were more deaths in Mexico than in other areas, as there were multiple potential variables, such as a stronger strain of the virus or more exposure to it. No definite conclusion had been reached, however the CDC reported that
In July 2020, U.S. Education Secretary Betsy DeVos said "only" .02% of the country's K-12 school students — totaling 14,740 children and teens — are likely to die from COVID-19 when and if schools fully reopen. [SEP] Puerto Rico // schools since May 2017; some of these were in schools in the mainland U.S. (Before the hurricanes, Puerto Rico had planned to close 179 schools due to inadequate numbers of students.) The official number of Hurricane Maria-related deaths as reported by the government of Puerto Rico is 64. The Commonwealth has commissioned George Washington University to assess the death toll and is awaiting that report. An academic study based on household surveys and reported in the New England Journal of Medicine estimated that the number of hurricane-related deaths during the period September 20, 2017 to December 31, 2017 was around
In July 2020, U.S. Education Secretary Betsy DeVos said "only" .02% of the country's K-12 school students — totaling 14,740 children and teens — are likely to die from COVID-19 when and if schools fully reopen. [SEP] Education in Haiti // Haiti's educational system. It is estimated that approximately 1.3 million children and youth under 18 were directly or indirectly affected. Nearly 4,200 schools were destroyed affecting nearly 50% of Haiti's total school and university population, and 90% of students in Port-au-Prince. Of this population, 700,000 were primary school-age children between the ages of 6 and 12 years old. The earthquake caused death and injury to thousands of students and hundreds of professors and school administrators, however the actual number of casualties is unknown. Most schools, including those that were minimally or not structurally affected at all, were closed for many
In July 2020, U.S. Education Secretary Betsy DeVos said "only" .02% of the country's K-12 school students — totaling 14,740 children and teens — are likely to die from COVID-19 when and if schools fully reopen. [SEP] Carmen de Patagones school shooting // the port city of Bahía Blanca. Because of the attack three of his classmates died, aged between 15 and 16, and five other students were injured. The then-president Néstor Kirchner described the episode as "painful" and declared two national days of mourning. In all of the schools in the country, an event of reflection was held, where a letter sent by the Ministry of Education was read for everyone. Solich told a judge "I remember some of it...no, I don't know. Actually, it went really quickly". He did not sleep the night before the attack, confessing that he was nervous.
In July 2020, U.S. Education Secretary Betsy DeVos said "only" .02% of the country's K-12 school students — totaling 14,740 children and teens — are likely to die from COVID-19 when and if schools fully reopen. [SEP] School shooting // year, the study reported. Six percent of these deaths were accidental, 38% were suicides, 53% were homicides and the remaining 3% were from legal intervention or undetermined reasons. Guns injured children at a rate of 8 per 100,000 children, but this rate is likely considerably higher because of unreported injuries. A preventive measure proposed for stopping school shooting has been focused on securing firearms in the home. A shooting in Sparks, Nevada on October 21, 2013, left a teacher and the shooter, a twelve-year-old student, dead with two seriously injured. The handgun used in the shooting had been taken from
Beached boats, pink water as drought saps Great Salt Lake. [SEP] Great Salt Lake // panoramic views of the lake, hiking and biking trails, wildlife viewing and access to beaches. The State of Utah operates a marina on the south shore of the lake at Great Salt Lake State Park, and another in Antelope Island State Park. With its sudden storms and expansive spread, the lake is a great test of sailing skills. Single mast, simple sloops are the most popular boats. Sudden storms and lack of experience on the part of boatmen are the two most dangerous elements in boating and sailing on the Great Salt Lake. Three resorts, each called Saltair, have been
Beached boats, pink water as drought saps Great Salt Lake. [SEP] Pink Lake (Western Australia) // salt concentrations combined with decreasing water levels from evaporation during summer trigger the appearance of the pink hue that can be seen in lakes across the country. Pink Lake lost its connection to Lake Warden and the eastern lakes with the construction of the railway line and South Coast Highway. Commercial salt mining, which began in 1896 and ceased in 2007 reduced salt levels in the lake. With further reductions to the lake's salt concentration being caused by freshwater entering the system through a combination of surface water inflow and increased groundwater inflow due to clearing in the catchment area
Beached boats, pink water as drought saps Great Salt Lake. [SEP] Great Salt Lake // harvested in quantity during the fall and early winter. They are fed to prawns in Asia, sold as novelty "Sea-Monkeys," sold either live or dehydrated in pet stores as a fish food, and used in testing of toxins, drugs, and other chemicals. There are also two species of brine fly as well as protozoa, rotifers, bacteria and algae. Salinity differences between the sections of the lake separated by the railroad causeway result in significantly different biota. A phytoplankton community dominated by green algae or cyanobacteria (blue-green algae) tint the water south of the causeway a greenish color. North of the
Beached boats, pink water as drought saps Great Salt Lake. [SEP] Great Salt Lake // and the Renco Group's U.S. Magnesium each extract minerals from the southern bay, and could benefit from a more natural mixture of water between the two sides of the lake. Dramatically fluctuating lake levels have inhibited the creation and success of tourist-related developments. Additionally, there is a problem with pollution from industrial and urban effluent, as well as a natural "lake stink" caused by the decay of insects and other wildlife, particularly during times of low water. Despite these issues, the lake remains one of Utah's largest tourist attractions. Antelope Island State Park is a popular tourist destination that offers
Beached boats, pink water as drought saps Great Salt Lake. [SEP] Great Salt Lake // freshwater Utah Lake, which itself is fed primarily by the Provo River; the Provo River does originate in the Uintas, a few miles from the Weber and Bear. The Jordan flows from the north part of Utah Lake into the south-east corner of the Great Salt Lake. Due to its shallowness, the water level can fall dramatically in dry years and rise during high-precipitation years, thereby reflecting prolonged drought or wet periods. The change in the level of lake level is strongly modulated by the Pacific Ocean through atmospheric circulations that fluctuate at low frequency. By capturing these climate oscillations
Beached boats, pink water as drought saps Great Salt Lake. [SEP] Great Salt Plains Lake // leaving insufficient oxygen to support the fish. According to officials of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, the future of the lake appears grim if no remedial action is taken. Proposed solutions are: There is a law requiring that a non federal partner help pay for restoration. The Corps regards this as an unlikely event. If no action is taken, the Corps has said that the seafood source will be depleted and the birds will abandon the lake. Also located along the shores of Great Salt Plains Lake is Great Salt Plains State Park. Recreational opportunities at Great Salt Plains
Beached boats, pink water as drought saps Great Salt Lake. [SEP] Great Salt Lake // of the lake because there were only three breaches. Because no rivers, except a few minor streams, flow directly into the north-west arm, Gunnison Bay, is substantially saltier than the rest of the lake. This saltier environment promotes different types of algae than those growing in the southern part of the lake, leading to a marked color difference on the two sides of the causeway. On December 1, 2016, the opening of new bridge allowed water to flow from the southern arm of the lake into north-west arm. At the time of opening of the causeway the north-west arm was
Beached boats, pink water as drought saps Great Salt Lake. [SEP] Great Salt Lake // shallow lake with gently sloping shores around all edges except on the south side, small variations in the water level greatly affect the extent of the shoreline. The water level can rise dramatically in wet years and fall during dry years. The water level is also affected by the amount of water flow diverted for agricultural and urban uses. The Jordan and Weber rivers, in particular, are diverted for other uses. In the 1880s Grove Karl Gilbert predicted that the lake – then in the middle of many years of recession – would virtually disappear except for a small remnant
Beached boats, pink water as drought saps Great Salt Lake. [SEP] Climate of Salt Lake City // streets, such as State Street and 1300 South, were converted into makeshift rivers to accommodate the overflowing creek. Some flooding also occurred in 1987, when the Great Salt Lake reached its all-time maximum water level. A 2010 study indicates that this record event occurred during an overlapping period of three prominent climate cycles that are unique in the region. Significant mid-winter temperature inversions often occur in the Salt Lake Valley. These inversions, which often last for days and weeks, are most pronounced in mid-winter, although milder inversions sometimes occur during other seasons. Winter temperature inversions cause cold, foggy and hazy
Beached boats, pink water as drought saps Great Salt Lake. [SEP] Great Salt Lake // to the lake effect in fall and spring. It is estimated that approximately six to eight lake effect snowstorms occur in a year, and that 10% of the average precipitation of Salt Lake City can be attributed to the lake effect. Because of its high salt concentration, the lake water is unusually dense, and most people can float more easily than in other bodies of water, particularly in Gunnison Bay, the saltier north arm of the lake. Water levels have been recorded since 1875, averaging about 4,200 feet (1,280 m) above sea level. Since the Great Salt Lake is a
A meme claiming that tilapia is a “mutant” fish that’s unsafe to eat combines a number of long-running warnings about the fish. [SEP] Tilapia // trim. Tilapia is one of several commercially important aquaculture species (including trout, barramundi and channel catfish) susceptible to off flavors. These 'muddy' or 'musty' flavors are normally caused by geosmin and 2-methylisoborneol, organic products of ubiquitous cyanobacteria that are often present or bloom sporadically in water bodies and soil. These flavors are no indication of freshness or safety of the fish, but they make the product unattractive to consumers. Simple quality control procedures are known to be effective in ensuring the quality of fish entering the market. Tilapia have very low levels of mercury, as they are fast-growing, lean, and
A meme claiming that tilapia is a “mutant” fish that’s unsafe to eat combines a number of long-running warnings about the fish. [SEP] Tilapia // a light-colored hybrid breed known as "Rocky Mountain White" tilapia is often grown due to its very light flesh and tolerance of low temperatures. Commercially grown tilapia are almost exclusively male. Because tilapia are prolific breeders, the presence of female tilapia results in rapidly increasing populations of small fish, rather than a stable population of harvest-size animals. Other methods of tilapia population control are polyculture, with predators farmed alongside tilapia or hybridization with other species. Whole tilapia fish can be processed into skinless, boneless (pin-bone out) fillets: the yield is from 30 to 37%, depending on fillet size and final
A meme claiming that tilapia is a “mutant” fish that’s unsafe to eat combines a number of long-running warnings about the fish. [SEP] Genetically modified fish // exhibiting an enlarged head relative to the body and a bulging operculum. This becomes progressively worse as the fish ages. It can interfere with feeding and may ultimately cause death. According to a study commissioned by Compassion in World Farming, the abnormalities are probably a direct consequence of growth hormone over-expression and have been reported in GM coho salmon, rainbow trout, common carp, channel catfish and loach, but to a lesser extent in Nile tilapia. In GM coho salmon ("Oncorhynchus kisutch") there are morphological changes and changed allometry that lead to reduced swimming abilities. They also exhibit abnormal behaviour such
A meme claiming that tilapia is a “mutant” fish that’s unsafe to eat combines a number of long-running warnings about the fish. [SEP] Aquaculture of tilapia // be raised in rice fields at planting time and grow to edible size () when the rice is ready for harvest. Unlike salmon, which rely on high-protein feeds based on fish or meat, commercially important tilapiine species eat a vegetable or cereal-based diet. Tilapia raised in inland tanks or channels are considered safe for the environment, since their waste and disease is contained and not spread to the wild. However, tilapiines have acquired notoriety as being among the most serious invasive species in many subtropical and tropical parts of the world. For example, "Oreochromis aureus", "O. mossambicus", "Sarotherodon melanotheron melanotheron",
A meme claiming that tilapia is a “mutant” fish that’s unsafe to eat combines a number of long-running warnings about the fish. [SEP] Tilapia // salmon and other carnivorous fish can alternatively be formulated from protein sources such as soybean, although soy-based diets may also change in the balance between omega-6 and omega-3 fatty acids. Tilapia serve as a natural, biological control for most aquatic plant problems. Tilapia consume floating aquatic plants, such as duckweed watermeal ("Lemna" sp.), most "undesirable" submerged plants, and most forms of algae. In the United States and countries such as Thailand, they are becoming the plant-control method of choice, reducing or eliminating the use of toxic chemicals and heavy metal-based algaecides. Tilapia rarely compete with other "pond" fish for food.
A meme claiming that tilapia is a “mutant” fish that’s unsafe to eat combines a number of long-running warnings about the fish. [SEP] Tetraodontidae // shellfish poisoning and red tide, can also be found in certain puffers. In September 2012, the Bureau of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources in the Philippines issued a warning not to eat puffer fish, locally known as "butete", after local fishermen died upon consuming puffer fish for dinner. The warning indicated that puffer fish toxin is 100 times more potent than cyanide. Pufferfish, called "pakpao" in Thailand, are usually consumed by mistake. They are often cheaper than other fish, and because they contain inconsistent levels of toxins between fish and season, there is little awareness or monitoring of the danger. Consumers
A meme claiming that tilapia is a “mutant” fish that’s unsafe to eat combines a number of long-running warnings about the fish. [SEP] Tilapia // short-lived, with a primarily vegetarian diet, so do not accumulate mercury found in prey. Tilapia are low in saturated fat, calories, carbohydrates, and sodium, and are a good protein source. They also contain the micronutrients phosphorus, niacin, selenium, vitamin B, and potassium. Some research has found that tilapia may be a less nutritious fish than generally believed. The Wake Forest University School of Medicine released a report in 2008 showing that the fish's omega-3 fatty acid content is often far lower than that of other commonly eaten fish species. The same study also showed that their omega-6 fatty acid levels
A meme claiming that tilapia is a “mutant” fish that’s unsafe to eat combines a number of long-running warnings about the fish. [SEP] Tilapia // Tilapia Tilapia ( ) is the common name for nearly a hundred species of cichlid fish from the tilapiine cichlid tribe. Tilapia are mainly freshwater fish inhabiting shallow streams, ponds, rivers, and lakes, and less commonly found living in brackish water. Historically, they have been of major importance in artisanal fishing in Africa, and they are of increasing importance in aquaculture and aquaponics. Tilapia can become a problematic invasive species in new warm-water habitats such as Australia, whether deliberately or accidentally introduced, but generally not in temperate climates due to their inability to survive in cold water. Tilapia is the
A meme claiming that tilapia is a “mutant” fish that’s unsafe to eat combines a number of long-running warnings about the fish. [SEP] Nile tilapia // larvae, making it a possible tool in the fight against malaria in Africa. The Nile tilapia is an omnivore that feeds on both plankton and aquatic plants. It generally feeds in shallow waters, as harmful gases (such as carbon dioxide, hydrogen sulfide, and ammonia) and temperature fluctuations found in deep waters create problems for the physiology of the fish. The Nile tilapia thrives on the warmer temperatures commonly found in shallow waters compared to the colder environment of the deep lake. In general, tilapias are macrophyte-feeders, feeding on a diverse range of filamentous algae and plankton. The Nile tilapia typically
A meme claiming that tilapia is a “mutant” fish that’s unsafe to eat combines a number of long-running warnings about the fish. [SEP] Oreochromis leucostictus // species, leading to genetic contamination and creating hybrid swarms, sometimes apparently replacing the native species altogether eventually. Thus, this species seems to be rather a menace to the maintenance of biodiversity and in particular to the maintenance of wild genetic diversity of tilapias, an important food fish throughout the tropics. Oreochromis leucostictus Oreochromis leucostictus (the blue-spotted tilapia) is a species of cichlid originally native to the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Uganda. It has now been introduced widely East Africa, and is believed to have negative ecological impact, particularly on native tilapias. This species is reported to reach a
Images show a genuine Antifa manual created and distributed by the anti-fascist group. [SEP] Rosa Antifa // Rosa Antifa Rosa Antifa Wien für freie Liebe und Anarchie [en: Pink Anti-Fascist Group Vienna for free love and anarchy] is a left wing action group in existence since 1995. Their activists regularly appear at rallies and demonstrations, they produce pamphlets and flyers. In 1995, a group of young activists founded Rosa Antifa "simply because the homophobia predominant in our society - and sadly enough even amongst leftists - pisses us off." The activists are motivated by rage against the prejudice that gays and lesbians ought to be "cured“, that heterosexuality be "normal“ or "natural“. "We simply want to be
Images show a genuine Antifa manual created and distributed by the anti-fascist group. [SEP] Antifa (United States) // was a transparent and quite pathetic attempt, but I wouldn't be surprised if white nationalist groups try to mount more sophisticated attacks in the future". A similar fake image circulated on social media after the Unite the Right rally; the doctored image, actually from a 2009 riot in Athens, was altered to make it look like someone wearing an Antifa logo attacking a member of the police with a flag. After the 2017 Las Vegas shooting, similar hoaxes falsely claimed that the shooter was a member of Antifa; another such hoax involved a fake antifa twitter account praising the shooting.
Images show a genuine Antifa manual created and distributed by the anti-fascist group. [SEP] Antifa (United States) // Another high-profile fake Antifa account was banned from Twitter after it posted with a geotag originating in Russia. Such fake Antifa accounts have been repeatedly reported on as real by right-leaning media outlets. Some of the opposition to Antifa has also been artificial in nature; Nafeesa Syeed of "Bloomberg" reported that "[t]he most-tweeted link in the Russian-linked network followed by the researchers was a petition to declare Antifa a terrorist group". Antifa (United States) The Antifa () movement is a conglomeration of left wing autonomous, militant anti-fascist groups in the United States. The principal feature of antifa groups is their
Images show a genuine Antifa manual created and distributed by the anti-fascist group. [SEP] Anti-fascism // Its two-flag logo, designed by Max Keilson and Max Gebhard, is still widely used as a symbol of militant anti-fascists globally. In Spain, large-scale anti-fascist movements were first seen in the 1930s, before and during the Spanish Civil War. The republican government and army, the Antifascist Worker and Peasant Militias (MAOC) linked to the Communist Party (PCE), the International Brigades, the Workers' Party of Marxist Unification (POUM), Spanish anarchist militias, such as the Iron Column and the autonomous governments of Catalonia and the Basque Country, fought the rise of Francisco Franco with military force. The Friends of Durruti, associated with
Images show a genuine Antifa manual created and distributed by the anti-fascist group. [SEP] Post-WWII anti-fascism // Post-WWII anti-fascism Antifa movements () and Anti-Fascist Action networks are left wing, often anarchist, extra-parliamentary groups that describe themselves as anti-fascist. Such movements have been active in several countries in the second half of the 20th and early 21st century. "Antifaschistische Aktion", an umbrella organisation for militant anti-fascists in Germany, was formed in 1932. It was sometimes called "Antifa". Although it did not survive the war, local anti-fascist committees were formed across Germany, typically by veterans of this organisation, as Nazi rule crumbled in 1944, under the name "Antifa". These anti-fascist committees often included communists, social democrats, and progressive Christians.
Images show a genuine Antifa manual created and distributed by the anti-fascist group. [SEP] Antifascistisk Aktion // National Democrats newspaper, and threatening the subscribers are counterproductive and similar to methods used by fascists. Antifascistisk Aktion Antifascistisk Aktion—abbreviated as AFA—is a far-left, extra-parliamentary, anti-fascist network in Sweden, whose stated goal is to "smash fascism in all its forms". Some of its members are influenced by the theory of triple oppression, and all of its members claim to oppose sexism, racism, and classism. The point of the organization is to exchange information and to coordinate activities between local groups. The groups' activities have included handing out flyers, organizing demonstrations, direct action, and property destruction. In line with their ideology,
Images show a genuine Antifa manual created and distributed by the anti-fascist group. [SEP] Rose City Antifa // to Alexander Reid Ross, an academic specializing in anti-fascist movements, RCA grew out of the group Anti-Racist Action, which first appeared in 1987, and through RCA "the European and American models were sort of synthesized and the current model of Antifa in the US was developed". Rose City Antifa Rose City Antifa (RCA) are an anti-fascist group founded 2007 in Portland, Oregon. They have been called the oldest active antifa group in the US. Rose City Antifa has clashed with law enforcement officials and supporters of the Donald Trump presidency following the 2016 presidential election. Prior to a Patriot Prayer
Images show a genuine Antifa manual created and distributed by the anti-fascist group. [SEP] Antifa (United States) // beaten by black-clad and bandana-masked antifa provide right wing extremists with a powerful propaganda tool" but goes on to state "that said, it is important to reject attempts to claim equivalence between the antifa and the white supremacist groups they oppose." There have been multiple efforts to discredit Antifa via hoaxes on social media, many of them false flag attacks originating from members of the alt-right and 4chan posing as members of Antifa on Twitter. Some of these hoaxes have been picked up and reported as fact by right-leaning media. These include an August 2017 "#PunchWhiteWomen" photo hoax campaign spread
Images show a genuine Antifa manual created and distributed by the anti-fascist group. [SEP] The Freedom Fighter's Manual // The Freedom Fighter's Manual The Freedom Fighter's Manual is the title of a fifteen-page propaganda booklet that was manufactured by the United States Central Intelligence Agency and airdropped over Nicaragua in 1983, with the stated goal of providing a "Practical guide to liberating Nicaragua from oppression and misery by paralyzing the military-industrial complex of the traitorous marxist state". The manual explains several methods by which the average citizen could cause civil disorder. A Contra fighter gave the manual to a U.S. reporter in Honduras in 1984. The publication describes many ways in which the average citizen could disrupt the everyday
Images show a genuine Antifa manual created and distributed by the anti-fascist group. [SEP] Antifaschistische Aktion // Antifaschistische Aktion Antifaschistische Aktion (), abbreviated as Antifa (), is an anti-fascist network in Germany. The first German movement to call itself "Antifaschistische Aktion" was proclaimed by the German Communist Party (KPD) in their newspaper "Rote Fahne" in 1932 and held its first rally in Berlin on 10 July 1932, then capital of the Weimar Republic. Its two-flag logo, designed by Association of Revolutionary Visual Artists members Max Keilson and Max Gebhard, remains a widely used symbol of militant anti-fascism. The late 1920s and early 1930s saw rising tensions between Nazis and leftists. Berlin in particular was the site of
GSK builds oncology pipeline as drug shown to help myeloma patients. [SEP] Reolysin // Oncolytics announced that cancer charity Myeloma UK launched MUK "eleven", a phase 1b trial studying REOLYSIN in combination with Celgene Corporation's immunomodulatory drugs (IMiDs), Imnovid® (pomalidomide) or Revlimid® (lenalidomide), as a rescue treatment in relapsing myeloma patients. The first patient was treated in September 2017. Oncolytics is conducting two phase 2 clinical trials studying REOLYSIN in pancreatic cancer: in collaboration with the University of Texas, Oncolytics is studying REOLYSIN in combination with gemcitabine (Gemzar®) in patients with advanced pancreatic cancer, and in collaboration with the NCI, Oncolytics is studying REOLYSIN in combination with carboplatin and paclitaxel as a first line
GSK builds oncology pipeline as drug shown to help myeloma patients. [SEP] Oncolytics Biotech // phase 1b trial. The trial will assess the safety and dose-limiting toxicity of REOLYSIN in combination with pembrolizumab (KEYTRUDA®) and chemotherapy in patients with advanced or metastatic pancreatic adenocarcinoma who have failed, or did not tolerate, first line treatment. In March 16, 2017 Oncolytics announced that cancer charity Myeloma UK launched MUK "eleven", a phase 1b trial studying REOLYSIN in combination with Celgene Corporation's immunomodulatory drugs (IMiDs), Imnovid® (pomalidomide) or Revlimid® (lenalidomide), as a rescue treatment in relapsing myeloma patients. The first patient was treated in September 2017. Oncolytics is conducting two phase 2 clinical trials studying REOLYSIN in pancreatic
GSK builds oncology pipeline as drug shown to help myeloma patients. [SEP] William A. Haseltine // that has proved to be an effective treatment for multiple myeloma and other cancers. Haseltine and a colleague also founded LeukoSite Inc. to develop drugs to treat autoimmune diseases. LeukoSite, also initially funded by Healthcare Ventures, acquired ProScript which in turn was acquired by Millenium Pharmaceuticals, the company that successfully brought Velcade to market. Millennium was acquired in 2008 by Takeda Pharmaceutical Company. Today Velcade is an important drug in the treatment of multiple myeloma. Knowledge of the importance of dendritic cells in HIV infection provided the insight that led to the formation of a company that pioneered immune cell
GSK builds oncology pipeline as drug shown to help myeloma patients. [SEP] Multiple myeloma // patients with "relapsed disease", bortezomib is a recent addition to the therapeutic arsenal, especially as second line therapy, since 2005. Bortezomib is a proteasome inhibitor. Also, lenalidomide (Revlimid), a less toxic thalidomide analog, is showing promise for treating myeloma. The newly approved thalidomide derivative pomalidomide (Pomalyst in the U.S.) may be used for relapsed and refractory multiple myeloma. In the 21st century, more patients have survived longer, as a result of stem cell transplant (with their own or a donor's) and treatments combining bortezomib (Velcade), dexamethasone and melphalan or cyclophosphamide. This seems to maintain the monoclonal peak at a reasonable
GSK builds oncology pipeline as drug shown to help myeloma patients. [SEP] Multiple myeloma // benefit from a bortezomib based maintenance regimen. The natural history of myeloma is of relapse following treatment. This may be attributed to tumor heterogeneity. Depending on the patient's condition, the prior treatment modalities used and the duration of remission, options for relapsed disease include re-treatment with the original agent, use of other agents (such as melphalan, cyclophosphamide, thalidomide or dexamethasone, alone or in combination), and a second autologous stem cell transplant. Later in the course of the disease, "treatment resistance" occurs. This may be a reversible effect, and some new treatment modalities may re-sensitize the tumor to standard therapy. For
GSK builds oncology pipeline as drug shown to help myeloma patients. [SEP] GenSpera // G-202, is currently in a Phase II clinical trial for patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) whose disease has failed to improve on standard therapy for this indication. G-202 is also being evaluated in a Phase II clinical trial in glioblastoma patients with recurrent disease after surgery and/or radiation treatment of the primary tumor. G-202 targets the enzyme PSMA, found on the walls of blood vessels that feed most cancerous tumors, destroying the tumor blood supply. In contrast with anti-angiogenic agents, G-202 destroys existing as well as new cancer blood vessels. G-202 received Orphan Drug Designation from U.S. Food and Drug
GSK builds oncology pipeline as drug shown to help myeloma patients. [SEP] Bortezomib // with low-dose intravenous immunoglobulins, plasmapheresis, and rituximab. Bortezomib Bortezomib (BAN, INN and USAN; marketed as Velcade by Takeda Oncology; Chemobort by Cytogen and Bortecad by Cadila Healthcare) is an anti-cancer drug and the first therapeutic proteasome inhibitor to be used in humans. Proteasomes are cellular complexes that break down proteins. In some cancers, the proteins that normally kill cancer cells are broken down too quickly. Bortezomib interrupts this process and lets those proteins kill the cancer cells. It is approved in the U.S. and Europe for treating relapsed multiple myeloma and mantle cell lymphoma. In multiple myeloma, complete clinical responses
GSK builds oncology pipeline as drug shown to help myeloma patients. [SEP] Daratumumab // 1/2 clinical trial in relapsed multiple myeloma patients. Updated trial results presented in December 2012 indicate daratumumab is continuing to show promising single-agent anti-myeloma activity. A 2015 study compared monotherapy 8 and 16 mg/kg at monthly to weekly intervals. Daratumumab was given priority review status by the FDA for multiple myeloma as a combination therapy (second line). Daratumumab Daratumumab (trade name Darzalex) is an anti-cancer drug. It binds to CD38, which multiple myeloma cells overexpress. Daratumumab was originally developed by Genmab, but it is now being jointly developed by Genmab along with the Johnson & Johnson subsidiary Janssen Biotech, which
GSK builds oncology pipeline as drug shown to help myeloma patients. [SEP] Genmab // July 2010. GSK has taken responsibility for developing ofatumumab in autoimmune indications while continuing to jointly develop ofatumumab with Genmab in oncology indications. Genmab received an up front payment of GBP 90 million from GSK in relation to the amendment and the Company's future funding commitment is capped at GBP 145 million. Further milestones due to Genmab under the oncology development program will be reduced by 50%. GSK is now solely responsible for funding development in autoimmune indications and Genmab will forgo development milestones for autoimmune indications and the first two sales milestones. In addition, Genmab has collaborations with Roche
GSK builds oncology pipeline as drug shown to help myeloma patients. [SEP] Filanesib // European Hematology Association in Stockholm. On October 31, 2013, it was reported that the company which developed the drug, Array BioPharma (based in Boulder, Colorado), was planning on launching a phase III clinical trial of the drug to treat multiple myeloma. The study began in mid-2014, and paired filanesib with the proteasome inhibitor carfilzomib in several hundred patients. The study's primary endpoint was progression-free survival (i.e. the time until the cancer recurs). A previous trial had reported that 37% of patients receiving filanesib in conjunction with carfilzomib showed lower levels of paraprotein, also known as "M protein", whereas only 16%
This town (Wilmington, Ohio) hasn’t taken any money from the government. They don’t want any money from the government. [SEP] Wilmington, Ohio // 1950s the city became home to a number of U.S. Department of Defense facilities, most notably the Clinton County Air Force Base. Following its closure in 1971, the economy of the city hovered in recession for more than a decade. After a number of small attempts to reuse the abandoned air force base, Airborne Express purchased the facility in 1979 for $850,000, a fraction of the estimated $100 million spent to construct it. During the next 24 years, Airborne invested more than $250 million to build a hub for its national delivery network, including new sort centers, a runway, aircraft
This town (Wilmington, Ohio) hasn’t taken any money from the government. They don’t want any money from the government. [SEP] Lake Local School District (Stark County) // 14. The spokeswoman for Lake Local schools Karen Koch claimed after that the school wouldn't have promoted the tobacco lawsuit money if they had known it wasn't available. The funding for the project would come from state dollars, now backed by bonds sold by the Ohio general revenue fund and money allocated by legislators.“We had no idea whatsoever... Back in 2009 and 2011 when the schools tried to pass those bond issues, that (tobacco settlement) money was there, (We) were not aware that the money was not still available in 2015... We didn’t ask that question and they didn’t share
This town (Wilmington, Ohio) hasn’t taken any money from the government. They don’t want any money from the government. [SEP] Wilmington insurrection of 1898 // installments. This practice, known as "principal or nothing", positioned lenders to take over black property and businesses through forced sales. The lack of inherited wealth, limitations of access to credit, and loss of savings through federal mismanagement and fraud, created a combined effect in which blacks "could not save anything", or otherwise acquire the means, to own taxable property. Though blacks made up nearly 60 percent of the county's population, property ownership among them in Wilmington was rare, at just eight percent. Of nearly $6 million in real and personal property taxes, blacks paid less than $400,000 of this amount.
This town (Wilmington, Ohio) hasn’t taken any money from the government. They don’t want any money from the government. [SEP] Wilmington, North Carolina // the mayor and aldermen of Wilmington, were led by Cornelius Harnett to Brunswick to confront Tryon. The governor was unyielding but a mob retrieved the seized ships. They forced royal customs officers and public officials in the region to swear never to issue stamped paper. Parliament repealed the Stamp Act in March 1766. In the 1830s, citizens of Wilmington became eager to take advantage of railroad transportation. Plans were developed to build a railroad line from the capital, Raleigh, to Wilmington. When Raleigh citizens declined to subscribe in sufficient number to stock to raise money for the project, organizers changed
This town (Wilmington, Ohio) hasn’t taken any money from the government. They don’t want any money from the government. [SEP] Ken Paxton // the state where the money order or travelers check was bought. The case has gone directly to the U.S. Supreme Court because it is a dispute among states. Paxton said an audit showed that Delaware owed other states $150 million, and that Delaware unlawfully took possession of uncashed checks instead of sending the checks back to the states where the money orders were purchased. The state of Delaware disputes these claims. In 2015, the Texas State Legislature passed a law implementing property tax reductions by increasing the homestead exemption to $25,000 and prohibiting localities from reducing or repealing any local
This town (Wilmington, Ohio) hasn’t taken any money from the government. They don’t want any money from the government. [SEP] Wilmington, Los Angeles // were dubious that annexation would be in their best interests, fearing that it would shift economic activity out of their city and towards Los Angeles. Because the city government of Los Angeles so strongly wanted to have the growing port inside the city limits, it made a number of promises to Wilmington and also to the equally-dubious citizens of the-then independent city of San Pedro. Among these promises were that $10 million would be invested in improvements to the port and that as much would be spent inside the city on public works as was collected in taxes. In the
This town (Wilmington, Ohio) hasn’t taken any money from the government. They don’t want any money from the government. [SEP] History of Ohio // funds for soldiers of the Gulf and Afghanistan wars. The state also provides free in-state tuition to any veteran regardless of state origin at their colleges. In 1820, the legislature then passed legislation which nullified the federal court order as well as the operations of the Bank of the United States within their borders. The state ignored further federal court orders, writs, and denied immunities to the federal government. Their actions were considered the complete destruction of federal standing in the state and an attempted overthrow of the federal government. Ohio forcefully applied their iron law against the federal government
This town (Wilmington, Ohio) hasn’t taken any money from the government. They don’t want any money from the government. [SEP] Edward and Elaine Brown // is governed by commercial law, that they are not the people named in the indictment, that the federal government has no authority and that they can resolve all charges with 'promissory notes' for billions of dollars." The Browns also claimed: "The U.S. has not had a Treasury since 1921"; "The United States does not have any employees because there is no longer a United States"; "There are no judicial courts in America and there has not been since 1789"; "There have not been any Judges in America since 1789"; "The Revolutionary War was a fraud"; "America is a British colony";
This town (Wilmington, Ohio) hasn’t taken any money from the government. They don’t want any money from the government. [SEP] Wilmington, Delaware // financial center for the credit card industry, largely due to regulations enacted by former Governor Pierre S. du Pont, IV in 1981. The Financial Center Development Act of 1981, among other things, eliminated the usury laws enacted by most states, thereby removing the cap on interest rates that banks may legally charge customers. Many major credit card issuers, including Bank of America (formerly MBNA Corporation), Chase Card Services (part of JPMorgan Chase & Co., formerly Bank One/First USA), and Barclays Bank of Delaware (formerly Juniper Bank), are headquartered in Wilmington. The Dutch banking giant ING Groep N.V. headquartered its U.S.
This town (Wilmington, Ohio) hasn’t taken any money from the government. They don’t want any money from the government. [SEP] Wilmington, Vermont // cleaning up and figuring out how to turn this devastating tragedy into a blessing. Within days the National Guard was repairing washed out roads, businesses were getting cleaned out, and fund raising began to help affected people and businesses to get back on their feet. The Wilmington Flood Relief Fund, chaired by Adam Palmiter, raised just shy of $500,000 to benefit local businesses and flood relief throughout the Deerfield Valley. By the date of the one year anniversary, the town was again thriving with many businesses back better than ever, tourists excited to shop locally, and new opportunities on the
Recently-arrived asylum seekers are perpetrating the majority of crime in Sweden. [SEP] Immigration and crime // study published in 1997 attempted to explain the higher than average crime rates among immigrants to Sweden. It found that between 20 and 25 percent of asylum seekers to Sweden had experienced physical torture, and many suffered from post-traumatic stress disorder. Other refugees had witnessed a close relative being killed. The 2005 study reported that persons from North Africa and Western Asia were over-represented in crime statistics, whereas a 1997 paper additionally found immigrants from Finland, South America, Arab world and Eastern Europe to be over-represented in crime statistics. Studies have found that native-born Swedes with high levels of unemployment
Recently-arrived asylum seekers are perpetrating the majority of crime in Sweden. [SEP] Immigration to Sweden // noted that while immigrants were disproportionately represented among crime suspects, many of the victims of immigrant crimes were other immigrants. He also opined that "Immigration will come with some cost, and we will likely have a bit more crime in a society with low crime rates". A Swedish Police report from May 2016 found that there have been 123 incidents of sexual molestation in the country's public baths and pools in 2015 (112 of them were directed against girls). In 55% of cases, the perpetrator could be reasonably identified. From these identified perpetrators, 80% were of foreign origin. The same
Recently-arrived asylum seekers are perpetrating the majority of crime in Sweden. [SEP] Immigration and crime // Swedish police from October 2015 to January 2016, 5,000 police calls out of 537,466 involved asylum seekers and refugees. According to Felipe Estrada, professor of criminology at Stockholm University, this shows how the media gives disproportionate attention to and exaggerates the alleged criminal involvement of asylum seekers and refugees. Henrik Selin, head of the Department for Intercultural Dialogue at the Swedish Institute, noted that allegations of a surge in immigrant crime after the intake of more than 160,000 immigrants in 2015 have been “highly exaggerated... there is nothing to support the claim that the crime rate took off after the
Recently-arrived asylum seekers are perpetrating the majority of crime in Sweden. [SEP] Crime in Sweden // past five years were refugees and immigrants (Southern Africans, Northern Africans, Arabs, Middle Easterns, and Afghans); Swedish Television's investigating journalists found that in cases where the victims didn't know the attackers, the proportion of immigrant sex offenders was more than 80%. Alleged immigrant crime in Sweden made international news and what has been called a "diplomatic incident" in February 2017 when US president Donald Trump told a rally in Melbourne, Florida on 18 February 2017 that Sweden has ""problems that they never thought possible" and "You look at what’s happening last night in Sweden" " following his watching of Ami
Recently-arrived asylum seekers are perpetrating the majority of crime in Sweden. [SEP] Immigration to Sweden // crime rates among immigrants to Sweden. It found that between 20 and 25 percent of asylum seekers to Sweden had experienced physical torture, and many suffered from post-traumatic stress disorder. Other refugees had witnessed a close relative being killed. The 2005 study reported that persons from North Africa and the Middle East had the highest overrepresentation in crime statistics, whereas those born in Western Europe, South East Asia and the United States had the lowest representation. whereas a 1997 paper additionally found immigrants from Finland, South America, Arab world and Eastern Europe to be overrepresented in crime statistics. Studies have
Recently-arrived asylum seekers are perpetrating the majority of crime in Sweden. [SEP] Immigration to Sweden // place of birth are at play, such as education level and poverty, and that similar trends occur in European countries that have not taken in a lot of immigrants in recent years. According to data gathered by Swedish police from October 2015 to January 2016, 5,000 police calls out of 537,466 involved asylum seekers and refugees. According to Felipe Estrada, professor of criminology at Stockholm University, this shows how the media gives disproportionate attention to and exaggerates the alleged criminal involvement of asylum seekers and refugees. Speaking in February 2017, Manne Gerell, a doctoral student in criminology at Malmo University,
Recently-arrived asylum seekers are perpetrating the majority of crime in Sweden. [SEP] Immigration to Sweden // 2015 Ikea stabbing attack, 2016 Sweden asylum centre stabbing, and the 2017 Stockholm attack. A 2014 survey of several studies found that people with foreign background are, on average, two times more likely to commit crimes than those born in Sweden. This figure has remained stable since the 1970s, despite the changes in numbers of immigrants and their country of origin. Some studies reporting a link on immigration and crime have been criticized for not taking into account the population's age, employment and education level, all of which affect level of crime. In general, research that takes these factors into
Recently-arrived asylum seekers are perpetrating the majority of crime in Sweden. [SEP] Crime in Sweden // Horowitz's appearance on Tucker Carlson. According to the New York Times, Trump aides "sought to clarify that Mr. Trump’s remarks were about a rising tide of crime in general". He later tweeted that the " ... media is trying to say that large scale immigration in Sweden is working out just beautifully. NOT!" Crime in Sweden Crime in Sweden describes an act defined in the Swedish Penal Code () or in another Swedish law or statutory instrument for which a sanction is prescribed. Figures from the 2013 Swedish Crime Survey (SCS) show that exposure to crime decreased from 2005 to
Recently-arrived asylum seekers are perpetrating the majority of crime in Sweden. [SEP] Immigration to Sweden // report found 319 cases of sexual assault on public streets and parks in 2015. In these cases, only 17 suspected perpetrators have been identified, 4 of them Swedish nationals with the remainder being of foreign origin. Another 17 were arrested, but not identified. According to Dagens Nyheter in 2017, at least 90% of all murders and attempted murders through gun violence in Sweden are performed by either immigrants or those with at least one immigrant parent and according to Expressen, 94.5% of all members of career criminal gangs in Stockholm, Sweden, are either immigrants or have at least one immigrant
Recently-arrived asylum seekers are perpetrating the majority of crime in Sweden. [SEP] Immigration to Sweden // "there is no basis for drawing the conclusion that crime rates are soaring in Sweden and that that is related to immigration". According to official statistics, the reported crime rate in Sweden has risen since 2005 whereas annual government surveys show that the number of Swedes experiencing crime has remained steady since 2005, even as Sweden has taken in hundreds of thousands of immigrants and refugees over the same period. Jerzy Sarnecki, a criminologist at the University of Stockholm, said foreign-born residents are twice as likely to be registered for a crime than native Swedes, but that other factors beyond
Final trial results confirm Ebola vaccine provides high protection against disease [SEP] Ebola vaccine // secured funding to develop its Ebola vaccine to Phase 1 trial. In late 2014 and early 2015, a double-blind, randomized Phase 1 trial was conducted in the Jiangsu Province of China; the trial examined a vaccine that contains glycoproteins of the 2014 strain, rather than those of the 1976 strain. The trial found signals of efficacy and raised no significant safety concerns. A study published in "Science" during March 2015 demonstrates that vaccination with a weakened form of the Ebola virus provides some measure of protection to non-human primates. This study was conducted in accordance with a protocol approved by
Final trial results confirm Ebola vaccine provides high protection against disease [SEP] Ebola vaccine // February 2015, Novavax had completed 2 primate studies on baboons and macaques and had initiated a Phase 1 clinical trial in Australia. The Lipid nanoparticle (LNP)-encapsulated siRNAs rapidly adapted to target the Makona outbreak strain of EBOV and are able to protect 100% of rhesus monkeys against lethal challenge when treatment was initiated at 3 days postexposure while animals were viremic and clinically ill. The top line Phase 1 human trial results showed that the adjuvanted Ebola GP Vaccine was highly immunogenic at all dose levels. On November 5, 2014, the "Houston Chronicle" reported that a research team at the
Final trial results confirm Ebola vaccine provides high protection against disease [SEP] Ebola vaccine // were recruited for trial EBL01 by University of Oxford, U.K. Initial results were released in November 2014; all 20 volunteers developed antibodies against Ebola and there were no significant concerns raised about safety. In December 2014, University of Oxford expanded the trial to include a booster vaccine based on MVA-BN, a strain of Modified vaccinia Ankara, developed by Bavarian Nordic, to investigate whether it can help increase immune responses further. The trial which has enrolled a total of 60 volunteers will see 30 volunteers vaccinated with the booster vaccine. As of April 2015, Phase 3 trial with a single dose
Final trial results confirm Ebola vaccine provides high protection against disease [SEP] West African Ebola virus epidemic // stages of development, including DNA vaccines, virus-like particles and viral vectors. and another seven as yet unheard-of vaccines were being developed. Additionally, there were two phase III studies being conducted with two different vaccines. . In July 2015, researchers announced that a vaccine trial in Guinea had been completed that appeared to give protection from the virus. The vaccine, rVSV-ZEBOV, had shown 100% efficacy in individuals, but more conclusive evidence was needed regarding its capacity to protect populations through "herd immunity" . The vaccine trial employed "ring vaccination", a technique that was also used in the 1970s to eradicate smallpox,
Final trial results confirm Ebola vaccine provides high protection against disease [SEP] Ebola vaccine // of animal model studies that replicate human disease, combined with evidence of safety and a potentially potent immune response (antibodies in the blood) from humans given the vaccine. Clinical trials involve the administration of the vaccine to healthy human subjects to evaluate the immune response, identify any side effects and determine the appropriate dosage. In December 2016, a study found the VSV-EBOV vaccine to be 70–100% effective against the Ebola virus, making it the first proven vaccine against the disease. A vaccine based on the vesicular stomatitis virus which was genetically modified to express a surface glycoprotein of Zaire Ebola
Final trial results confirm Ebola vaccine provides high protection against disease [SEP] Ebola virus epidemic in Guinea // of Health and Human Services, and conducted by researchers from the U.S. National Academy of Medicine, called the vaccine’s effectiveness in preventing Ebola infections into question. In particular, the authors criticized the methodology of the patient trail, and argued that the protection provided by the vaccine may be lower than officially announced. The WHO approved the vaccine for use in the ongoing Ebola outbreak on May 29, 2017. It was announced in May 2017 that the Gamaleya Center for Epidemiology and Microbiology in Russia would deliver 1000 doses of an independently produced vaccine to Guinea for testing. According to a
Final trial results confirm Ebola vaccine provides high protection against disease [SEP] Responses to the West African Ebola virus epidemic // Guinea. Previously, a 2015 study in medical journal "The Lancet" reported that the vaccine was 100 percent effective after tests on 4000 people in Guinea who had been in close contact with Ebola patients. Gavi global alliance signed a $5 million advance to buy the vaccine and help expedite the licensing and WHO approval process. In April 2017, a panel of researchers from U.S. National Academy of Medicine questioned the vaccine’s effectiveness in preventing Ebola contractions in a study sponsored by the National Institutes of Health, the Food and Drug Administration and the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.
Final trial results confirm Ebola vaccine provides high protection against disease [SEP] Ebola vaccine // CanSino Biotechnology Inc. Their findings were consistent with previous tests on rVSV-ZEBOV in Africa and Europe. In January 2015, Marie-Paule Kieny, the WHO's assistant director-general of health systems and innovation, announced that the vaccines cAd3-EBO Z and VSV-EBOV had demonstrated acceptable safety profiles during early testing and would soon progress to large-scale trials in Liberia, Sierra Leone and Guinea. The trials would involve up to 27,000 people and comprise 3 groups – members of the first two groups would receive the two candidate vaccines, while the third group will receive a placebo. Both vaccines have since successfully completed the Phase
Final trial results confirm Ebola vaccine provides high protection against disease [SEP] 2018 Équateur province Ebola outbreak // 2013–16, with 5837 people receiving the vaccine; the trial authors concluded that rVSV-ZEBOV provided "substantial protection" against EVD, but subsequent commentators have questioned the degree of protection obtained. As the vaccine has yet to be approved by any regulatory authority, it is being used in DRC under a compassionate use trial protocol. A review, by Medaglini, et al, indicates that "long-term protection is undefined" via the vaccine mechanism. A ring vaccination strategy is ongoing, which involves vaccinating only those most likely to be infected: direct contacts of infected individuals, and contacts of those contacts. Other groups targeted include health workers,
Final trial results confirm Ebola vaccine provides high protection against disease [SEP] Ebola virus epidemic in Guinea // eight have died. After a 42-day waiting period, the WHO declared the country free of Ebola on 1 June. After a trial run of an experimental Ebola vaccine involving 11,000 people in Guinea, Merck, the vaccine’s manufacturer, announced it was found to be “highly protective” against the virus. This confirmed the results of a study published in 2015 that awarded the vaccine 100 percent effectiveness after tests on 4000 people in Guinea who had been in close contact with Ebola patients. However, a study sponsored by the National Institutes of Health, the Food and Drug Administration and the U.S. Department
Under President George W. Bush, the U.S. had "52 months of ... uninterrupted job creation" and "revenues were at an all-time high in 2007. [SEP] Economic policy of the Barack Obama administration // record. By comparison, no net jobs were added during the 2000–2009 period including the crisis impact, while 18 to 22 million jobs were added each decade from 1970 to 1999. Non-farm job creation averaged approximately 200,000/month for 73 months from October 2010 to October 2016, a robust rate by historical standards. For example, job creation per month averaged 236,000 (Clinton), 209,000 (Carter), 167,000 (Reagan), 50,000 (G. H. W. Bush), and 13,000 (G. W. Bush). The 2017 'Economic Report of the President" stated, "Nonfarm job growth turned consistently positive beginning in October 2010. Since then, the U.S. economy has added jobs
Under President George W. Bush, the U.S. had "52 months of ... uninterrupted job creation" and "revenues were at an all-time high in 2007. [SEP] Economic policy of the George W. Bush administration // of these funds were later recovered, as banks and auto companies paid back the government. Economic performance overall suffered as a result of the 2001 and 2007-2009 recessions. Real GDP growth averaged a mediocre 1.8% from Q1 2001 to Q4 2008. Job creation averaged 95,000 private sector jobs per month, measured from February 2001 to January 2009, the least of any President since 1970. Job creation during the 2001-2007 period was slow by historical standards and arguably unsustainable, as nearly all the net job creation was reversed during the subsequent Great Recession. The employment recoveries from both the 2001 and
Under President George W. Bush, the U.S. had "52 months of ... uninterrupted job creation" and "revenues were at an all-time high in 2007. [SEP] Economic policy of the Barack Obama administration // for 74 straight months, the longest streak of total job growth on record; over this period, nonfarm employment growth has averaged 199,000 jobs a month. Total nonfarm employment recovered to its pre-recession peak in 2014—the best year for job creation since the 1990s—and, as of November 2016, exceeded its pre-recession peak by 6.7 million jobs." The Congressional Budget Office (CBO) estimated the size of an employment shortfall, defined as the number of workers below a full employment level. This shortfall steadily improved during Obama's tenure, from approximately 10 million in 2010 to 2.5 million as of December 2015, a figure
Under President George W. Bush, the U.S. had "52 months of ... uninterrupted job creation" and "revenues were at an all-time high in 2007. [SEP] Domestic policy of the George W. Bush administration // from 64.4% in December 2000 and January 2001 to 62.1% in August and September 2003. By August 2005, it had recovered only to 62.9%. In absolute numbers, this corresponds to a drop of 1.6 million jobs but an eventual net gain of 4.7 million jobs during the Bush administration. Private sector employment, as measured by private nonfarm payrolls, shrank over the 8 years of the George W. Bush presidency. There were modest gains in private-sector payroll employment during his first term, but these were more than offset by the shedding of workers by the private sector in his second term.
Under President George W. Bush, the U.S. had "52 months of ... uninterrupted job creation" and "revenues were at an all-time high in 2007. [SEP] George H. W. Bush // be a turning point in the Bush presidency; his popularity among Republicans never fully recovered. Coming at around the same time as the budget deal, America entered into a mild recession, which lasted for six months. Many government programs, such as welfare, increased. As the unemployment rate edged upward in 1991, Bush signed a bill providing additional benefits for unemployed workers. The year 1991 was marked by many corporate reorganizations, which laid off a substantial number of workers. Many now unemployed were Republicans and independents, who had believed that their jobs were secure. By his second year in office, Bush
Under President George W. Bush, the U.S. had "52 months of ... uninterrupted job creation" and "revenues were at an all-time high in 2007. [SEP] George W. Bush // a result of what became known as the "Bush tax cuts" and increased national security spending. In March 2006, then-Senator Barack Obama said when he voted against raising the debt ceiling: "The fact that we are here today to debate raising America's debt limit is a sign of leadership failure." By the end of Bush's presidency, unemployment climbed to 7.2 percent. In December 2007, the United States entered the longest post–World War II recession, which included a housing market correction, a subprime mortgage crisis, soaring oil prices, and a declining dollar value. In February, 63,000 jobs were lost, a five-year
Under President George W. Bush, the U.S. had "52 months of ... uninterrupted job creation" and "revenues were at an all-time high in 2007. [SEP] George W. Bush // across the political spectrum for his handling of the Iraq War, Hurricane Katrina, and other challenges. Amid this criticism, the Democratic Party regained control of Congress in the 2006 elections. In December 2007, the United States entered its longest post-World War II recession, often referred to as the "Great Recession", prompting the Bush administration to obtain congressional passage of multiple economic programs intended to preserve the country's financial system. Nationally, Bush was both one of the most popular and unpopular presidents in history, having received the highest recorded presidential approval ratings in the wake of the September 11 attacks, as
Under President George W. Bush, the U.S. had "52 months of ... uninterrupted job creation" and "revenues were at an all-time high in 2007. [SEP] Foreign policy of the George H. W. Bush administration // that would lead to more jobs. This portion of the speech "was quickly overshadowed by the Government's announcement that unemployment rose to 7.1 percent in December, the highest rate in six years." White House Chief of Staff Samuel K. Skinner replied to the release of the figures by saying they made the trip "more important than ever." Aboard Air Force One, Bush explained the positive of the trip would be securing a deal with Japan featuring the country pledging to buy an additional 10 billion in American auto parts each year until 1995 and that 200,000 jobs would be created
Under President George W. Bush, the U.S. had "52 months of ... uninterrupted job creation" and "revenues were at an all-time high in 2007. [SEP] Economic policy of the Barack Obama administration // employed part-time for economic reasons, rose from 8.4% in November 2007 and peaked at 17.1% in November 2009, approximately where it remained until November 2010. Thereafter, it began a steady decline until reaching 9.4% in January 2017. Measured from the month following his inauguration in January 2009, the U.S. added 11.6 million private sector jobs from February 2009 to January 2017. Measured from the crisis trough in February 2010, the U.S. added a total of 16.1 million private sector jobs over the remaining 83 months of the Obama presidency — the longest continuous period of private sector job creation on
Under President George W. Bush, the U.S. had "52 months of ... uninterrupted job creation" and "revenues were at an all-time high in 2007. [SEP] George W. Bush // job growth remained stagnant. Another tax cut program was passed that year. During the 2001 to 2008 years, GDP grew at an average annual rate of 2.125 percent, less than for past business cycles. Bush entered office with the Dow Jones Industrial Average at 10,587, and the average peaked in October 2007 at over 14,000. When Bush left office, the average was at 7,949, one of the lowest levels of his presidency. Only four other US presidents have left office with the stock market lower than when they began. Unemployment originally rose from 4.2 percent in January 2001 to 6.3
Pelosi offers Medicare negotiation plan to curb drug prices. [SEP] Medicare Prescription Drug Price Negotiation Act of 2007 // Medicare Prescription Drug Price Negotiation Act of 2007 In January 2007, the 110th United States House of Representatives approved , the Medicare Prescription Drug Price Negotiation Act, a bill to require federal officials to negotiate with drug companies for lower prices for the 23 million senior citizens who have signed up for Medicare's prescription drug coverage. If passed, the law would repeal a ban on letting the government negotiate with manufacturers for lower prices — a provision that was part of the GOP-sponsored 2003 measure called the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act, which created the prescription drug program.
Pelosi offers Medicare negotiation plan to curb drug prices. [SEP] Medicare Prescription Drug Price Negotiation Act of 2007 // Medicare Prescription Drug Price Negotiation Act of 2007 In January 2007, the 110th United States House of Representatives approved , the Medicare Prescription Drug Price Negotiation Act, a bill to require federal officials to negotiate with drug companies for lower prices for the 23 million senior citizens who have signed up for Medicare's prescription drug coverage. If passed, the law would repeal a ban on letting the government negotiate with manufacturers for lower prices — a provision that was part of the GOP-sponsored 2003 measure called the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act, which created the prescription drug program.
Pelosi offers Medicare negotiation plan to curb drug prices. [SEP] Political positions of Ron Paul // the costs of medications for the elderly and disabled, and which prohibited the government from negotiating directly with pharmaceutical companies to try to get lower prices for the covered medications. In 2007, he again went against the majority of House Republicans when he voted with all of the Democrats in support of the Medicare Prescription Drug Price Negotiation Act, which, if enacted, would have given the government the authority to negotiate Medicare Part D drug prices with the manufacturers. During the 2012 presidential primary campaign, Paul said that although he remains opposed to Medicare Part D, repealing it was not
Pelosi offers Medicare negotiation plan to curb drug prices. [SEP] Manhattan Institute for Policy Research // 1332 "state innovation" waivers giving states the flexibility to increase choice, competition, and affordability under the ACA. The Institute's health care scholars oppose allowing the federal government to negotiate prices in the Medicare Part D prescription drug program and believe that drug price negotiating has adverse effects in the Veterans Administration. Paul Howard argues that the first step in reforming Medicaid is for Congress to enact per-capita spending caps. In 2016, Howard argued that California’s Proposition 61–a measure that would have imposed price controls on some prescription drugs in the state – was a flawed proposal that might have actually
Pelosi offers Medicare negotiation plan to curb drug prices. [SEP] Economic policy of Donald Trump // measures that would reduce the value of the existing debt, making it cheaper to repurchase, would increase the cost of issuing new debt. Such a threat also could undermine the stability of global financial markets." Trump has called for allowing Medicare to negotiate directly with prescription-drug companies to get lower prices for the Medicare Part D prescription-drug benefit, something currently prohibited by law. Trump has claimed on several occasions that this proposal would save $300 billion a year. Glenn Kessler, the fact-checker for the "Washington Post", gave this statement a "four Pinocchios" rating, writing that this was a "truly absurd"
Pelosi offers Medicare negotiation plan to curb drug prices. [SEP] Political positions of Ron Paul // private contracts, and binding arbitration to resolve medical disputes benefits patients, who receive full compensation in a timelier manner than under the current system," as well as physicians and hospitals, since their litigation costs, and malpractice insurance premiums, would be markedly reduced. Paul proposes that all government funding of medical care be eliminated (with the exception, perhaps, of care for veterans). His Plan to Restore America budget proposal would begin a phase out of Medicare starting in 2013, when workers younger than 25 would be able to opt out of participating in the program. He says that during the transition
Pelosi offers Medicare negotiation plan to curb drug prices. [SEP] Nancy Pelosi // healthcare. On March 10, 2017, Pelosi stated that Democrats would continue battling Republican efforts to repeal the Affordable Care Act but would also be willing to form a compromise measure in the event that Republicans were unable to pass a compromise bill and reached out for bipartisan support. She indicated her support for the Republican plan to expand Health Savings Accounts and said the question of Republicans accepting an expansion of Medicaid was important. In September, Pelosi sent a letter to Democrats praising Senator John McCain for announcing his opposition to the latest Republican effort to repeal and replace the
Pelosi offers Medicare negotiation plan to curb drug prices. [SEP] Jack Conway (politician) // them signed a card. If elected to the Senate, Conway says the first piece of legislation he will introduce would repeal what he calls a "sweetheart deal" for the pharmaceutical industry that currently prohibits Medicare from negotiating for lower prices on prescription drugs. Citing a report from the National Committee on Social Security and Medicare, he says that this alone would save the federal government $200 billion. Conway opposes privatizing Social Security and thinks these benefits should be maintained and protected from any outside risks associated with the financial markets. In his 2002 run for Congress Conway stated that raising
Pelosi offers Medicare negotiation plan to curb drug prices. [SEP] Medicare (United States) // their Medicaid rolls. Ultimately Kaiser found that the plan would raise total social costs by more than twice the savings to the federal government. Negotiating the prices of prescription drugs Currently, people with Medicare can get prescription drug coverage through a public Medicare Part C plan or through the standalone Part D prescription drug plans (PDPs) program. Each plan sponsor establishes its own coverage policies and could if desired independently negotiate the prices it pays to drug manufacturers. But because each plan has a much smaller coverage pool than the entire Medicare program, many argue that this system of paying
Pelosi offers Medicare negotiation plan to curb drug prices. [SEP] Ron Wyden // lower priced prescriptions from Canada, and negotiating bulk drug purchases for Medicare in order to lower costs. In 2003 Wyden joined with Senators Lindsey Graham (R-SC) and Trent Lott (R-MS) to help pass the Bush Administration's Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act. The Bush Administration is alleged to have forced officials to hide its true cost, which later was triple its original claim. The bill has been criticized as favoring pharmaceutical companies, as it prohibits the federal government from negotiating prescription drug rates. Not long after Tom Daschle's withdrawal as President Barack Obama's nominee as United States Secretary of
Indonesia green group calls for probe into death of activist. [SEP] Garuda Indonesia // rights activist Munir Said Thalib, travelling to Amsterdam via Singapore on Garuda Indonesia Flight 974, was assassinated by off-duty pilot Pollycarpus Priyanto, who slipped arsenic into his drink some time before the departure of the flight's second leg to Amsterdam. He was reported to have felt unwell several hours after departure from Singapore, during which time he was checked on by a doctor who happened to be on board, and moved to the business class cabin to sleep. He died approximately two hours before arrival into Amsterdam, sparking an international controversy, during which time Priyanto, along with CEO Indra Setiawan
Indonesia green group calls for probe into death of activist. [SEP] Terrorism in Indonesia // Papua. A Papua Pos journalist, Kogoya (35), was killed in this shooting. On 27 November 2012, three policemen stationed at the remote Pirime police post, Jayawijaya, Papua, were killed in an attack by a group of unidentified men. Police suspected the Papua separatist movement was behind the attack. Subsequent bombings in the centre of Jakarta, in which all but one victim were ordinary Indonesians, shocked the public and brought swift responses from the Indonesian security forces. Even the most reluctant politicians had to admit that the evidence pointed to a small group of Islamist agitators. The Jakarta bombings and legal
Indonesia green group calls for probe into death of activist. [SEP] Agus Wirahadikusumah // 23 July 2001. On 30 August 2001, Wirahadikusumah was brought into Pertamina hospital in South Jakarta at 06:19. A hospital employee stated that he was already dead when he was brought in, that the cause of death was unknown and that no autopsy had been conducted. According to "The Jakarta Post", the probable cause of death was heart failure. However, some people alleged that he might have been assassinated, due to his reformist stance and for uncovering 189 billion rupiah corruption scandal in Yayasan Dharma Putra Kostrad, a military owned charity organization. His body then buried in Kalibata Heroes Cemetery,
Indonesia green group calls for probe into death of activist. [SEP] Death in custody of Gunasegaran Rajasundram // People's Parliament, SUARAM, Jemaah Islah Malaysia (JIM), Centre for Policy Initiatives (CPI) and Writers Alliance for Media Independence (WAMI), also released a joint statement on August 17, 2009 requesting a standard operating procedure (SOP) for investigations into cases of death in custody. The reason why Gunasegaran’s case draws much attention is that one of the key witnesses, K. Selvachandran, was detained after testifying and was alleged physically assaulted by policemen. This is widely criticized by human rights groups across the globe like OMCT. In the joint statement by Lawyers for Liberty and SUARAM, they expressed deep disappointment at the arrest
Indonesia green group calls for probe into death of activist. [SEP] Murder of Udin // International, which expressed its concern that allegations about the involvement of government officials had "not been properly investigated". The Committee to Protect Journalists sent a letter to President Suharto that demanded a full investigation into Udin's death, with the results made public. An independent report by the Indonesian Alliance of Independent Journalists praised the courage and neutrality of Udin's reporting, stating, "he was not an NGO activist, nor was he involved in the student movement. He was just an ordinary journalist who did an average job for a regional newspaper." However, the regent denied these reports and rumours; in a
Indonesia green group calls for probe into death of activist. [SEP] Syahrir // had an advanced stage of lung cancer. He was buried in the Tanah Kusir Cemetery, Jakarta, on 29 July 2008. Syahrir was married to Dr. Nurmala Kartini Syahrir, a chairman of the Indonesian Anthropological Association, and has a son, Pandu, and a daughter, Gita. Syahrir Syahrir (24 February 1945 – 28 July 2008) was a prominent Indonesian political economist. He was officially appointed by President of the Republic of Indonesia, Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono as Economic Adviser in the Council of Presidential Advisers on 11 April 2007. As a student activist, he was once sentenced to jail during the Malari demonstration
Indonesia green group calls for probe into death of activist. [SEP] Try Sutrisno // In 1990, there was the Talangsari Incident, in which Try repeated his actions in 1984 by cracking down on Islamist protesters. In November 1991, in the then Province of East Timor, a group of students attending the funeral of a fellow student who had been shot dead by Indonesian troops took the opportunity to launch protests against the Indonesian occupation. At the funeral procession, students unfurled banners calling for self-determination and independence, displaying pictures of the independence leader Xanana Gusmão. As the procession entered the cemetery, Indonesian troops opened fire. Of the people demonstrating in the cemetery, 271 were killed,
Indonesia green group calls for probe into death of activist. [SEP] Muchdi Purwopranjono // South Jakarta District Court, accused of soliciting and planning the September 2004 murder of human rights activist Munir. The killing was perpetrated by an off-duty Garuda pilot and alleged BIN agent named Pollycarpus Budihari Priyanto. In earlier trials, Garuda chief executive Indra Setiawan testified he had met with Muchdi and received a verbal and written request from BIN to assign Pollycarpus to a flight that Munir made from Jakarta to Singapore. Evidence showed 41 phone calls were made between Pollycarpus and Muchdi in the days surrounding the murder. Budi Santoso, a former BIN director, told police in October 2007 and
Indonesia green group calls for probe into death of activist. [SEP] Munir Said Thalib // of Indonesian Human Rights Monitor (IMPARSIAL), another Indonesian human rights NGO. In 2001, while he was investigating Kopassus's role in kidnappings, a bomb package was delivered to his house. Munir was poisoned with arsenic on a flight from Jakarta to Amsterdam on 7 September 2004. He was travelling on state-owned airline Garuda Indonesia. It was concluded from Munir's autopsy and eyewitnesses during the trial that he had died two hours before arrival in Schiphol International Airport. He took the arsenic during his flight transit in Singapore, or sometime near that time. In Singapore, Pollycarpus Priyanto, a Garuda pilot at the
Indonesia green group calls for probe into death of activist. [SEP] Andika Eka Putra // dispatched to retrieve the body and take it to Poso General Hospital. Andika Eka Putra Andika Eka Putra (d. ) was an Indonesian Islamic militant and member of the militant group based in Poso, Mujahidin Indonesia Timur. He was on the most-wanted list (DPO) of the Indonesian Police, along with 44 other terrorists. On September 14, Andika was found dead on the banks of the Puna in Tangkura village, South Poso Pesisir district, Poso regency, Central Sulawesi, at approximately 9:30 a.m. local time. According to Police Chief, Brig. Gen. , Andika died when he fell and his head struck a
A viral social media post in January 2020 represented an authentic, accurate "health bulletin" about the new coronavirus outbreak from an official public health authority. [SEP] ProMED-mail // Saudi Health Ministry announced the diagnosis of a new form of coronavirus. The importance of using unofficial sources of information for public health surveillance has become increasingly recognized. Sometimes referred to as “event-based surveillance” or “epidemic intelligence,” informal disease reporting services, pioneered by ProMED, have become a crucial component of the overall global infectious disease surveillance picture. According to the WHO Epidemic & Pandemic Alert & Response, more than 60% of the initial outbreak reports come from informal sources, including ProMED-mail. ProMED-mail publishes reports to the website ProMEDmail.org in addition to sending e-mails to service subscribers. There is no cost
A viral social media post in January 2020 represented an authentic, accurate "health bulletin" about the new coronavirus outbreak from an official public health authority. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // with confirmed cases of a SARS-like virus. The delays in obtaining data and absence of basic information (which would usefully include: sex, age, other medical conditions and smoking status) have been noted and decried by Dr. Margaret Chan and in Pro-Med comments on numerous briefings. At the annual meeting of the world’s health ministers, Dr. Chan, director-general of the World Health Organization, said the virus was now her “greatest concern.” On 28 May 2013, the Saudi Ministry of Health reported five more cases of MERS-CoV. The cases have been "recorded among citizens in the Eastern Region, ranging in age from
A viral social media post in January 2020 represented an authentic, accurate "health bulletin" about the new coronavirus outbreak from an official public health authority. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // was referred to the RITM last 4 July 2015. Another person, who was also showing symptoms, was placed in isolation after he had close contact with the said patient; eight others, who also had contacted with the patient, were identified. DOH is in the process of tracking all the people whom the patient had contacted with. The first known case of a previously unknown coronavirus was identified in a 60-year-old Saudi Arabian man with acute pneumonia, who died of renal failure in June 2012. As of 12 May 2013, two more deaths have been reported in the al-Ahsa region of
A viral social media post in January 2020 represented an authentic, accurate "health bulletin" about the new coronavirus outbreak from an official public health authority. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // said virus. The Evangelista Medical Hospital in San Pedro, Laguna, the facility where the patient was first admitted, was temporarily closed by DOH for fourteen days. On 17 February 2015, all those who had exposure or had contact with the said nurse were tested negative of the said virus. On 6 March 2015, The Department of Foreign Affairs confirmed three Filipino female healthcare workers in Saudi Arabia who were infected with MERS-CoV. On 6 July 2015, DOH confirmed the second detected case of MERS-CoV in the country. The patient who had contracted the virus was from the Middle East and
A viral social media post in January 2020 represented an authentic, accurate "health bulletin" about the new coronavirus outbreak from an official public health authority. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // man from the Orlando area, has been reported, and a third Illinois man is as yet asymptomatic but has tested positive for a past infection with the healthcare worker from Indiana. The latter case is the first human-to-human transmission in the United States. On 28 May 2014, the CDC announced that the third person who was found positive for the virus was not infected. The announcement came after a further laboratory analysis by CDC indicating that the person was never infected with the virus. 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak Since 2012, an outbreak of Middle East respiratory syndrome
A viral social media post in January 2020 represented an authentic, accurate "health bulletin" about the new coronavirus outbreak from an official public health authority. [SEP] Coronavirus // in a small number of nucleotides. In 2003, following the outbreak of Severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) which had begun the prior year in Asia, and secondary cases elsewhere in the world, the World Health Organization (WHO) issued a press release stating that a novel coronavirus identified by a number of laboratories was the causative agent for SARS. The virus was officially named the SARS coronavirus (SARS-CoV). The epidemic resulted in over 8,000 infections, about 10% of which resulted in death. X-ray crystallography studies performed at the Advanced Light Source of Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory have begun to give hope
A viral social media post in January 2020 represented an authentic, accurate "health bulletin" about the new coronavirus outbreak from an official public health authority. [SEP] Severe acute respiratory syndrome // protocol for protecting healthcare workers and identifying infected patients as a major contributing factor to the continued spread of the virus. The atmosphere of fear and uncertainty surrounding the outbreak resulted in staffing issues in area hospitals when healthcare workers elected to resign rather than risk exposure to SARS. The CDC and Canada's National Microbiology Laboratory identified the SARS genome in April 2003. Scientists at Erasmus University in Rotterdam, the Netherlands demonstrated that the SARS coronavirus fulfilled Koch's postulates thereby confirming it as the causative agent. In the experiments, macaques infected with the virus developed the same symptoms as human
A viral social media post in January 2020 represented an authentic, accurate "health bulletin" about the new coronavirus outbreak from an official public health authority. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // being followed up. On 31 May 2013, the Italian health ministry announced its first case of MERS-CoV in a 45-year-old man who had traveled to Jordan. The patient is being currently treated in a hospital in Tuscany and his condition was reported as not life-threatening. On 1 November 2013, a woman who had recently traveled to Saudi Arabia for the Hajj, contracted the disease. She is stated to be in stable condition, and investigators from the World Health Organization are investigating whom she came in contact with. In February 2013, the first UK case of the novel coronavirus was confirmed
A viral social media post in January 2020 represented an authentic, accurate "health bulletin" about the new coronavirus outbreak from an official public health authority. [SEP] Severe acute respiratory syndrome // strain of a particular virus known as a coronavirus. This strain has all the genetic building blocks of the type that triggered the global outbreak of SARS in 2002." The research was "published in the journal "Public Library of Science Pathogens"" and "was led by Shi Zheng-Li and Cui Jie of the Wuhan Institute of Virology, China... In their paper, the Chinese team warn that another deadly outbreak of SARS could emerge at any time. As they point out, the cave where they discovered their strain is only a kilometre from the nearest village." The World Health Organization declared severe
A viral social media post in January 2020 represented an authentic, accurate "health bulletin" about the new coronavirus outbreak from an official public health authority. [SEP] Coronavirus // one discovered the virus first and has the right to name it. Early in 2005, a research team at the University of Hong Kong reported finding a fifth human coronavirus in two patients with pneumonia. They named it Human coronavirus HKU1. In September 2012, a sixth new type of coronavirus was identified, initially called Novel Coronavirus 2012, and now officially Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV). The World Health Organisation accordingly issued a global alert. The WHO update on 28 September 2012 said that the virus did not seem to pass easily from person to person. However, on May 12,
Officials release edited coronavirus reopening guidance. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // said virus. The Evangelista Medical Hospital in San Pedro, Laguna, the facility where the patient was first admitted, was temporarily closed by DOH for fourteen days. On 17 February 2015, all those who had exposure or had contact with the said nurse were tested negative of the said virus. On 6 March 2015, The Department of Foreign Affairs confirmed three Filipino female healthcare workers in Saudi Arabia who were infected with MERS-CoV. On 6 July 2015, DOH confirmed the second detected case of MERS-CoV in the country. The patient who had contracted the virus was from the Middle East and
Officials release edited coronavirus reopening guidance. [SEP] Bovine coronavirus // nasal washes – which identifies the viral antigen. The haemagglutination inhibition test can be used to establish the strain of coronavirus. Animals should be treated symptomatically. The disease can be controlled by vaccinating the dam with a live vaccine (ATCvet code QI02) whilst she is pregnant as this provides antibodies to the virus in the colostrum. Additional management factors such as ensuring adequate colostrum intake in newborn calves, using appropriate hygiene methods and ventilation of housing reduce disease incidence. Bovine coronavirus Bovine coronavirus (BCV) is as a member of the Coronaviridae family which are enveloped, single-stranded, positive-sense RNA viruses with
Officials release edited coronavirus reopening guidance. [SEP] Human coronavirus OC43 // cases occurring in the winter months. Human coronavirus OC43 Human coronavirus OC43 is an enveloped, positive-stranded RNA virus in the species "Betacoronavirus-1" (genus "Betacoronavirus", subfamily "Coronavirinae", family "Coronaviridae", order "Nidovirales"). Four HCoV-OC43 genotypes (A to D), have been identified with genotype D most likely arising from recombination. The complete genome sequencing of two genotype C and D strains and bootscan analysis shows recombination events between genotypes B and C in the generation of genotype D. Of 29 strains identified, none belong to the more ancient genotype A. Molecular clock analysis using spike and nucleocapsid genes dates the most recent common
Officials release edited coronavirus reopening guidance. [SEP] Human coronavirus OC43 // Human coronavirus OC43 Human coronavirus OC43 is an enveloped, positive-stranded RNA virus in the species "Betacoronavirus-1" (genus "Betacoronavirus", subfamily "Coronavirinae", family "Coronaviridae", order "Nidovirales"). Four HCoV-OC43 genotypes (A to D), have been identified with genotype D most likely arising from recombination. The complete genome sequencing of two genotype C and D strains and bootscan analysis shows recombination events between genotypes B and C in the generation of genotype D. Of 29 strains identified, none belong to the more ancient genotype A. Molecular clock analysis using spike and nucleocapsid genes dates the most recent common ancestor of all genotypes to the
Officials release edited coronavirus reopening guidance. [SEP] Coronavirus // of a vaccine against the disease "since [the spike protein] appears to be recognized by the immune system of the host." Following the high-profile publicity of SARS outbreaks, there has been a renewed interest in coronaviruses among virologists. For many years, scientists knew about only two human coronaviruses (HCoV-229E and HCoV-OC43). The discovery of SARS-CoV added a third human coronavirus. By the end of 2004, three independent research labs reported the discovery of a fourth human coronavirus. It has been named NL63, NL, and the New Haven coronavirus by different research groups. The three labs are still arguing over which
Officials release edited coronavirus reopening guidance. [SEP] Coronavirus frameshifting stimulation element // families identified in the coronavirus include the SL-III cis-acting replication element (CRE), the coronavirus 3' stem-loop II-like motif (s2m), the coronavirus packaging signal and the coronavirus 3' UTR pseudoknot. During protein synthesis, rapidly changing conditions in the cell can cause ribosomal pausing. In coronaviruses, this can affect growth rate and trigger translational abandonment. This releases the ribosome from the mRNA and the incomplete polypeptide is targeted for destruction. Coronavirus frameshifting stimulation element In molecular biology, the coronavirus frameshifting stimulation element is a conserved stem-loop of RNA found in coronaviruses that can promote ribosomal frameshifting. Such RNA molecules interact with a
Officials release edited coronavirus reopening guidance. [SEP] Coronaviridae // selection and packaging is critical for developing antiviral strategies and viral expression vectors based on the coronavirus genome. Coronaviridae Coronaviridae is a family of enveloped, positive-sense, single-stranded RNA viruses. The viral genome is 26–32 kb in length. Virions are spherical, 120–160 nm across ("Coronavirinae"), bacilliform, 170–200 by 75–88 nm ("Bafinivirus") or found as a mixture of both, with bacilliform particles characteristically bent into crescents ("Torovirus"). The particles are typically decorated with large (~20 nm), club- or petal-shaped surface projections (the “peplomers” or “spikes”), which in electron micrographs of spherical particles create an image reminiscent of the solar corona. Members of
Officials release edited coronavirus reopening guidance. [SEP] Coronavirus 3' stem-loop II-like motif (s2m) // recombination events. Other RNA families identified in the coronavirus include the SL-III cis-acting replication element (CRE), the coronavirus frameshifting stimulation element, the coronavirus packaging signal and the coronavirus 3' UTR pseudoknot. Functionally during host invasion by viral RNA, it appears that s2m first binds one or more proteins as a mechanism for the viral RNA to substitute host protein synthesis. This has also been seen in s2m RNA macromolecular substitution of ribosomal RNA folds. The s2m RNA element are also effective targets for the design of anti-viral drugs. Coronavirus 3' stem-loop II-like motif (s2m) The Coronavirus 3' stem-loop II-like motif
Officials release edited coronavirus reopening guidance. [SEP] Coronavirus packaging signal // RNA to be specificity packaged into virions. Other RNA families identified in the coronavirus include the SL-III cis-acting replication element (CRE), the coronavirus frameshifting stimulation element, the coronavirus 3' stem-loop II-like motif (s2m) and the coronavirus 3' UTR pseudoknot. Coronavirus packaging signal The Coronavirus packaging signal is a conserved cis-regulatory element found in Coronavirus which has an important role in regulating the packaging of the viral genome into the capsid. As part of the viral life cycle, within the infected cell, the viral genome becomes associated with viral proteins and assembles into new infective progeny viruses This process is called
Officials release edited coronavirus reopening guidance. [SEP] Middle East respiratory syndrome // pneumonia and acute renal failure. After routine diagnostics failed to identify the causative agent, Zaki contacted Ron Fouchier, a leading virologist at the Erasmus Medical Center (EMC) in Rotterdam, the Netherlands, for advice. Fouchier sequenced the virus from a sample sent by Zaki. Fouchier used a broad-spectrum "pan-coronavirus" real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) method to test for distinguishing features of a number of known coronaviruses (such as OC43, 229R, NL63, and SARS-CoV), as well as for RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp), a gene conserved in all coronaviruses known to infect humans. While the screens for known coronaviruses were all negative, the
Ted Cruz Says Democrats are embracing “abortion up until the moment of birth and even, horrifically, after that.” [SEP] Political positions of Ted Cruz // funding to Planned Parenthood. In January 2016, Cruz announced his "Pro-Lifers for Cruz" coalition, chaired by Tony Perkins; co-chairs include Troy Newman, who has previously stated that the government has a responsibility to execute abortion doctors "in order to expunge bloodguilt ["sic"] from the land and people." Cruz favors the death penalty. In his 2012 Senate campaign, Cruz frequently mentioned his role as counsel for the State of Texas in "Medellín v. Texas", a 2008 case in which the U.S. Supreme Court found that Texas has the legal right to ignore an order from the International Court of Justice directing
Ted Cruz Says Democrats are embracing “abortion up until the moment of birth and even, horrifically, after that.” [SEP] Rebecca Kiessling // serves as co-founder of Hope After Rape Conception and Embryo Defense. Kiessling is critical of anti-abortion legislations that did not include a rape exception, including the Hyde Amendment which bans taxpayer funding on abortion, and the Affordable Care Act which she has described as "a joke that holds no weight". She has also criticized Republicans New Jersey Representative Chris Smith for introducing the No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act, and Senator Rick Santorum for having referred to children conceived through rape as a "gift from God" in one of his presidential campaigns in 2012. She also condemned then-Indiana state treasurer
Ted Cruz Says Democrats are embracing “abortion up until the moment of birth and even, horrifically, after that.” [SEP] Daniel Patrick Moynihan // the Environmental Protection Agency. In the mid-1990s, Moynihan was one of the Democrats to support the ban on the procedure known as partial-birth abortion. He said of the procedure: "I think this is just too close to infanticide. A child has been born and it has exited the uterus. What on Earth is this procedure?" Earlier in his career in the Senate, Moynihan had expressed his annoyance with the adamantly pro-choice interest groups petitioning him and others on the issue. He challenged them saying, "you women are ruining the Democratic Party with your insistence on abortion." Moynihan broke with orthodox
Ted Cruz Says Democrats are embracing “abortion up until the moment of birth and even, horrifically, after that.” [SEP] Scott Randolph // before terminating a pregnancy, telling a story about how viewing ultrasounds after his wife had miscarried was a traumatic experiencing, crying while he told the story. He was later criticized during a debate on union reforms, in which he argued that Republicans were against regulations, except when it came to social issues. He sarcastically suggested that his wife "incorporate her uterus" to stop Republican efforts to limit her reproductive health choices, at which point the Speaker of the House stepped in, informing Randolph that his choice of language was inappropriate, as he referenced a body part, and that he should
Ted Cruz Says Democrats are embracing “abortion up until the moment of birth and even, horrifically, after that.” [SEP] Rape and pregnancy statement controversies in United States elections, 2012 // 2012 Republican primary election with support from the Tea Party movement. On October 23, 2012, two weeks before the election, Mourdock was asked about abortion during a debate with Democrat nominee Joe Donnelly. He said: I know there are some who disagree and I respect their point of view but I believe that life begins at conception. The only exception I have to have an abortion is in that case of the life of the mother. I just struggled with it myself for a long time but I came to realize: Life is that gift from God that I think
Ted Cruz Says Democrats are embracing “abortion up until the moment of birth and even, horrifically, after that.” [SEP] Heidi Heitkamp // fellow red state Democratic Senator Joe Donnelly (D-Indiana), who entered the Senate at the same time Heitkamp did. When running for Senate in 2012, Heitkamp said she opposed public funding of abortions and believed that "late term abortions should be illegal except when necessary to save the life of the mother." After her election, however, she voted to filibuster a bill that would have made abortions illegal after the fifth month of pregnancy except when the mother's life is endangered. Heitkamp's apparent shift led to criticism by Marjorie Dannenfelser of the pro-life Susan B. Anthony List. Planned Parenthood, which supports
Ted Cruz Says Democrats are embracing “abortion up until the moment of birth and even, horrifically, after that.” [SEP] Scott Walker (politician) // the Court refused to hear the Walker administration's appeal of the Seventh Circuit decision, leaving its finding of unconstitutionality in place. Walker blamed an "activist court" for finding his law unconstitutional. On July 20, 2015, Walker signed a bill into law that banned all abortions after the 20th week of pregnancy, "except when the life of the mother is in immediate danger." In 2012, regarding right-to-work legislation, Walker told reporters at the state Republican Party convention that "It's not going to get to my desk ... I'm going to do everything in my power to make sure it isn't there
Ted Cruz Says Democrats are embracing “abortion up until the moment of birth and even, horrifically, after that.” [SEP] Scott Walker (politician) // stated that he is "pro-life", and pointed to legislation he signed that leaves "the final decision to a woman and her doctor". In August 2015, he criticized the notion that abortion is necessary to save the life of the mother in certain cases, calling it a "false choice." In an interview with the "Milwaukee Journal Sentinel" a few weeks before the November 2014 election, Walker declined to answer directly when asked if abortion should be prohibited after 20 weeks. In July 2015, Walker signed a state law banning abortion after 20 weeks, including in cases of rape or incest but
Ted Cruz Says Democrats are embracing “abortion up until the moment of birth and even, horrifically, after that.” [SEP] Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act // act, saying, "Not only is it good legislation, but it enjoys the support of a majority of the American people." Most of the candidates running for the Republican nomination for president in 2016 pledged support for the 20 week abortion ban. After receiving the Republican nomination, in September 2017 Donald Trump signed a letter to pro-life leaders committing to sign the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act if elected. After the House passed the bill in 2015, Hillary Clinton criticized the bill as "a direct challenge to Roe v. Wade, which has protected a woman's constitutional right to privacy for over
Ted Cruz Says Democrats are embracing “abortion up until the moment of birth and even, horrifically, after that.” [SEP] Whole Woman's Health v. Hellerstedt // praised the decision as a victory for women, saying "By striking down politically motivated restrictions that made it nearly impossible for Texans to exercise their full reproductive rights, the Court upheld every woman’s right to safe, legal abortion, no matter where she lives." President Obama issued a statement applauding the Court's decision and reiterating his commitment to "women's health, including protecting a woman's access to safe, affordable health care and her right to determine her own future." Senator Bernie Sanders applauded the decision, calling it a "decisive victory for women across the country." Senator Ted Cruz expressed disappointment with the
Nebraska state officials say prison conditions have improved. [SEP] Nebraska State Penitentiary // Nebraska State Penitentiary The Nebraska State Penitentiary (NSP) is a state correctional facility for the Nebraska Department of Correctional Services. Located in Lincoln, it is the oldest state correctional facility in Nebraska, opening in 1869. Until after World War I, it was the only adult correctional facility in the state. During 1980-1981, the existing cellblocks constructed during the second half of the 19th century were replaced by four (later five) modular housing units. A new administrative complex and an EPA-approved multi-fuel power plant were also completed at the same time. An existing dormitory building constructed in the 1950s was retained
Nebraska state officials say prison conditions have improved. [SEP] Nebraska State Penitentiary // improve and personalize the delivery of rehabilitative services. The NSP has been accredited by the American Correctional Association since 1985. The NSP offers a variety of education/rehabilitation programs designed to enhance an inmate's chances for successful community adjustment upon release. These include Educational/Life Skills and Vocational Programs, Self-Improvement (Mental Health and Control Unit Program), (Residential and Non-residential Substance Abuse Treatment), Residential Treatment Community (RTC), Religious Programming and Self-Betterment Activities), and Support Services The NSP is the site of major components of the Agency's Cornhusker State Industries (CSI) program. Nebraska State Penitentiary The Nebraska State Penitentiary (NSP) is a state correctional
Nebraska state officials say prison conditions have improved. [SEP] Nebraska State Penitentiary // as a medium security facility and two new 100 bed dormitory units were opened in 1998. A thirty-six bed control unit also built in the 1950s continues in use as a high security segregation facility. The Industries Plant, Laundry and other support buildings were retained from the older facility as well. The inmate population at the NSP typically consists of offenders aged 21 years and above, serving medium to longer sentences. The Nebraska State Penitentiary uses the Unit Management concept designed to improve control and staff/inmate relationships by dividing the larger institution population into smaller, more manageable groups and to
Nebraska state officials say prison conditions have improved. [SEP] Nebraska Department of Correctional Services // must be prepared from food supplies on hand at the prison. Nebraska Department of Correctional Services The Nebraska Department of Correctional Services (NDCS) is the state corrections agency for the State of Nebraska. NDCS currently has 10 institutions confining over 4,000 inmates. All male inmates coming into the system enter through the Diagnostic and Evaluation Center where they are evaluated and assigned to other facilities. All female inmates are housed at the Nebraska Correctional Center for Women. The agency's headquarters is in Building #1 in the Lincoln Regional Center in Lincoln, Nebraska. Nebraska is one of nine states nationwide having
Nebraska state officials say prison conditions have improved. [SEP] Nebraska Correctional Center for Women // the American Correctional Association since 1981. Nebraska Correctional Center for Women The Nebraska Correctional Center for Women (NCCW) is a state correctional facility for the Nebraska Department of Correctional Services. Located just west of York, Nebraska, it is the only secure state facility to house adult women. NCCW, began operation in May, 1920, through an act of the Nebraska State Legislature establishing the "State Reformatory for Women." The original facility consisted of a 2-story house that was used as an inmate and staff residence. The facility was a working dairy farm. The inmates assisted with the livestock. The current institution
Nebraska state officials say prison conditions have improved. [SEP] Tecumseh State Correctional Institution // are within a week of their execution, who are housed at Nebraska State Penitentiary). In 2013 it was over capacity, with 1,008 prisoners. A prisoner riot occurred in 2015. A riot on May 10, 2015 resulted in the deaths of two inmates and injuries to two guards. Another incident occurred on March 2, 2017, resulting in the deaths of two inmates. Tecumseh State Correctional Institution The Tecumseh State Correctional Institution (TSCI) is a medium / maximum security state correctional institution for the Nebraska Department of Correctional Services. The TSCI is in Nemaha Township, Johnson County, about two miles north of
Nebraska state officials say prison conditions have improved. [SEP] Nebraska Correctional Center for Women // Nebraska Correctional Center for Women The Nebraska Correctional Center for Women (NCCW) is a state correctional facility for the Nebraska Department of Correctional Services. Located just west of York, Nebraska, it is the only secure state facility to house adult women. NCCW, began operation in May, 1920, through an act of the Nebraska State Legislature establishing the "State Reformatory for Women." The original facility consisted of a 2-story house that was used as an inmate and staff residence. The facility was a working dairy farm. The inmates assisted with the livestock. The current institution consists of 17 buildings on of
Nebraska state officials say prison conditions have improved. [SEP] Rice/Poindexter case // uncertain until Senator Chuck Hagel facilitated release on over a thousand pages of relevant documents in 2001. In 1993, the Nebraska Parole Board voted unanimously to commute both men's sentences to time served. The Pardons Board in Nebraska consists of the Governor, the Attorney General and the Secretary of State. They have taken no action to commute the sentences per the 1993 recommendation. One Board member has even asserted that there are "no circumstances" under which he would consider commutation. In 2014, Ed Poindexter was denied parole. He will not be considered again for 10 years, at which time he
Nebraska state officials say prison conditions have improved. [SEP] Nebraska Department of Correctional Services // Nebraska Department of Correctional Services The Nebraska Department of Correctional Services (NDCS) is the state corrections agency for the State of Nebraska. NDCS currently has 10 institutions confining over 4,000 inmates. All male inmates coming into the system enter through the Diagnostic and Evaluation Center where they are evaluated and assigned to other facilities. All female inmates are housed at the Nebraska Correctional Center for Women. The agency's headquarters is in Building #1 in the Lincoln Regional Center in Lincoln, Nebraska. Nebraska is one of nine states nationwide having all adult facilities accredited through the American Correctional Association. Previously the
Nebraska state officials say prison conditions have improved. [SEP] Nebraska Department of Correctional Services // department operated juvenile correctional facilities, including the Youth Rehabilitation & Treatment Center - Kearney (YRTC-K) in Kearney, a juvenile correctional facility for boys, and the Youth Rehabilitation & Treatment Center - Geneva (YRTC-G) in unincorporated Fillmore County, near Geneva, for girls. After 23 years of operation from the Department of Correctional Services; on January 1, 1997, the youth correctional facilities were transferred out of the scope of the department; the facilities are now managed by the Nebraska Department of Health and Human Services. Since the establishment of the Nebraska Department of Correctional Services, 6 officers have died in the line
President Donald Trump “immediately discontinued” an aid program to Central America. [SEP] Central American Minors Program // of the Northern Triangle had not been effective and that the violence in these countries had only gotten worse. Since Trump's executive order to push for immigration enforcement on border security in January, it initiated the termination process of the CAM program. After Donald Trump’s executive order banned the entry of refugees, the CAM program was suspended. Since the CAM program was part of the larger Refugee program President Obama established, the executive order halted the entry of refugees for 120 days. It also put 2,700 children who were already accepted on hold. Since Trump's new policy, about 3,000 minors
President Donald Trump “immediately discontinued” an aid program to Central America. [SEP] First 100 days of Donald Trump's presidency // it requests federal agency reports by late March 2017 which "identify and quantify all sources of direct and indirect Federal aid or assistance to the Government of Mexico on an annual basis over the past five years, including all bilateral and multilateral development aid, economic assistance, humanitarian aid, and military aid." On January 27, Forbes cautioned that the 20% Mexican Import Tariff on all imported goods announced by Spicer to pay for the 1,933-mile (3,111 km) frontier wall would be "paid by Americans". GOP donors, Brothers Charles and David Koch, and their advocacy group, Americans For Prosperity, oppose Paul Ryan's
President Donald Trump “immediately discontinued” an aid program to Central America. [SEP] Central American migrant caravans // noted that mentions of the caravan by Fox News dropped dramatically immediately following the 2018 midterm elections. Trump told supporters that there were "criminals and unknown middle easterners" in the caravan despite the lack of any evidence for this charge. Likewise, Vice President Pence in an interview with Fox News stated: What the president of Honduras told me is that the caravan was organized by leftist organizations, political activists within Honduras, and he said it was being funded by outside groups, and even from Venezuela … So the American people, I think, see through this—they understand this is not a
President Donald Trump “immediately discontinued” an aid program to Central America. [SEP] 2014 American immigration crisis // billion and resulted in discussions on how to interpret or revise the 2008 law in order to expedite handling large numbers of unaccompanied children. In November 2017, the Trump administration ended the Central American Minors Program which allowed eligible minors from the Northern Triangle to apply for the refugee resettlement or parole in the United States, thereby limiting the flow of Central Americans to the United States. While the U.S. had numerous domestic policies for dealing with the massive rise in immigration, on July 8, 2014 President Obama also requested funding for "the repatriation and reintegration of migrants to countries
President Donald Trump “immediately discontinued” an aid program to Central America. [SEP] Foreign aid to Haiti // months of his term. In his first State of the Union address, President Trump iterated a theme of "America First," proclaiming his dislike of programs like democracy promotion and generic humanitarian aid aimed largely at countries in Latin America. President Trump insists that Congress pass laws to ensure that "American foreign-assistance dollars always serve American interests, and only go to "America’s friends." However, only about one percent of the United States federal budget goes to foreign aid — 40% considered security assistance, rather than economic or humanitarian aid. Canada–Haiti relations are relations between Canada and Haiti. During the unsettled period
President Donald Trump “immediately discontinued” an aid program to Central America. [SEP] Malcolm Turnbull // Rica in response to a Central American migration crisis. In November, Turnbull and Peter Dutton announced that Australia would accept 1,250 refugees from Central America, in exchange for the U.S. accepting refugees on Nauru and Manus. Turnbull and President Donald Trump held a phone conversation on 28 January 2017, the transcript of which later leaked to the "Washington Post". On 2 February 2017, Trump tweeted that Obama's deal was "dumb". US Vice-President Mike Pence later confirmed that the United States would honour the deal, subject to 'extreme vetting' of asylum seekers. Australia began receiving Central American asylum seekers in July
President Donald Trump “immediately discontinued” an aid program to Central America. [SEP] Central American migrant caravans // Mujica was arrested in Ciudad Hidalgo on 22 October while walking with a group of migrants to a church. Mujica was pulled out of a crowd of migrants by Mexican authorities and pushed into a white van. According to Pueblo Sin Fronteras, he was not involved in organizing the caravan and was conducting humanitarian work in Tapachula. Also on 22 October, President Donald Trump said the U.S. would begin curtailing tens of millions of dollars in aid to three Central American nations, because they did not stop the caravan. President Trump also threatened to send the U.S. military to close
President Donald Trump “immediately discontinued” an aid program to Central America. [SEP] Foreign policy of the Donald Trump administration // will not be deterred and will vigorously defend our industry." The Canadian dollar fell to a 14-month low on the announcement. During a summer 2017 meeting about immigration, Trump objected to receiving immigrants from Haiti, reportedly saying "they all have AIDS." The White House denied the report. During a meeting with congressional leaders on January 11, 2018, Trump complained about the number of immigrants from Haiti, saying "Why do we need more Haitians, take them out." He then referred to Haiti and El Salvador, as well as unspecified African nations, as "shithole countries", although specific facts and details about the
President Donald Trump “immediately discontinued” an aid program to Central America. [SEP] Presidency of Donald Trump // August 2017. The RAISE Act sought to reduce legal immigration levels to the U.S. by 50% by halving the number of green cards issued, capping refugee admissions at 50,000 a year and ending the visa diversity lottery. In August 2017, the administration terminated a program that granted temporary legal residence to unaccompanied Central American minors. 2,714 individuals would need to renew their legal residence status through other more difficult immigrant channels. In November 2017, the Temporary Protected Status (TPS) granted to 60,000 Haitians following the 2010 Haiti earthquake was revoked. In January 2018, the administration announced that approximately 200,000 Salvadorans,
President Donald Trump “immediately discontinued” an aid program to Central America. [SEP] Presidency of Donald Trump // prevented by US authorities from filing for asylum. During the 2018 mid-term election campaign, Trump sent nearly 5,600 troops to the U.S.-Mexico border for the stated purpose of protecting the United States against a caravan of Central American migrants. The Pentagon had previously concluded that the caravan posed no threat to the U.S. The border deployment was estimated to cost as much as $220 million by the end of the year. With daily warnings from Trump about the dangers of the caravan during the mid-terms, the frequency and intensity of the caravan rhetoric declined dramatically after election day. In May
Nearly all ships operated by U.S.-headquartered cruise lines are registered in foreign countries. [SEP] Freedom of the seas // ships must be registered to a country to show proof of ownership. The owner of the vessel sometimes prefers to pay the lower registration fees by picking countries such as Panama, Bermuda, Italy, Malta and the Netherlands. According to Cruise Lines International Association, 90% of commercial vessels calling on U.S. ports fly foreign flags. To avoid the high cost with more rules and regulations, ships and tankers sometime prefer lower cost registration with a lower standard of inspection and regulation by picking a country that exercises less control over their registered ships, though many ships are owned by individuals or
Nearly all ships operated by U.S.-headquartered cruise lines are registered in foreign countries. [SEP] Cruise ship // the United States, like most international shipping company, ships are registered in countries including the Netherlands, the UK, the Bahamas, and Panama. The International Labour Organization's 2006 Maritime Labour Convention, also known as the "Seafarers' Bill of Rights," provides comprehensive rights and protections for all crewmembers. The ILO sets rigorous standards regarding hours of work and rest, health and safety, and living conditions for crewmembers and requires governments to ensure ships are in compliance. For cruise routes around Hawaii, operators are required to register their ships in the United States and the crew is unionized, so these cruises are typically
Nearly all ships operated by U.S.-headquartered cruise lines are registered in foreign countries. [SEP] Cruise ship // ship operating under the American flag on the United States East Coast. Currently the five largest cruise line holding companies and operators in the world are Carnival Corporation & plc, Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd., Star Cruises (which owns 50% of Norwegian Cruise Line; NCL in its own right is the third largest line), MSC Cruises, and Louis Cruise Lines. Louis Cruises has largely grown its fleet through purchasing older second- or third-hand ships, while the other four operators have largely constructed their own vessels and combined own the majority of the "megaships". Cruise ships are organized much like floating hotels,
Nearly all ships operated by U.S.-headquartered cruise lines are registered in foreign countries. [SEP] Flag of convenience // and the ability to employ cheaper foreign labour. Furthermore the foreign owners pay no income taxes. The modern practice of ships being registered in a foreign country began in the 1920s in the United States when shipowners, frustrated by increased regulations and rising labor costs, began to register their ships in Panama. The use of open registries steadily increased, and in 1968, Liberia grew to surpass the United Kingdom as the world's largest ship register. , more than half of the world’s merchant ships were registered with open registries, and almost 40% of the entire world fleet, in terms of
Nearly all ships operated by U.S.-headquartered cruise lines are registered in foreign countries. [SEP] Cruise ship pollution in the United States // flag countries. Foreign-flag cruise vessels owned by six companies account for nearly 95% of passenger ships operating in U.S. waters. Each year, the industry adds new ships to the total fleet, vessels that are bigger, more elaborate and luxurious, and that carry larger numbers of passengers and crew. Over the past two decades, the average ship size has been increasing at the rate of roughly every five years. The average ship entering the market from 2008 to 2011 will be more than long and will weigh more than 130,000 tons. To the cruise ship industry, a key issue is demonstrating
Nearly all ships operated by U.S.-headquartered cruise lines are registered in foreign countries. [SEP] Cruise line // or new order. In other words, Carnival Cruise Line and Holland America Line. for example, are the cruise lines from this common industry practice point of view; whereas Carnival Corporation & plc and Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd., for example, can be considered holding corporations of cruise lines. This industry practice of using the brand, not the larger holding corporation, as the cruise line is also followed in the member cruise lines in Cruise Lines International Association (CLIA), the list of cruise lines, and the member-based reviews of cruise lines. Currently the largest (in terms of passenger market share) cruise lines
Nearly all ships operated by U.S.-headquartered cruise lines are registered in foreign countries. [SEP] Passenger Vessel Services Act of 1886 // permanently leaves the vessel at ports other than the origination port and the vessel makes at least one call at a foreign port. Norwegian Cruise Line created a subsidiary, NCL America, and introduced three new US-flagged vessels: "Pride of Aloha" in 2004, "Pride of America" in 2005, and "Pride of Hawaii" in 2006. Previously, with its foreign-flagged vessels, NCL needed to include a four-day detour to Tabuaeran (Fanning Atoll) in the Line Islands (Republic of Kiribati) on its Hawaiian itineraries. Reportedly due to financial losses, in 2007 NCL renamed "Pride of Hawaii" to "Norwegian Jade", and reflagged and relocated the
Nearly all ships operated by U.S.-headquartered cruise lines are registered in foreign countries. [SEP] United States Merchant Marine // In 2005, there were also 77 passenger ships. Of those American-flagged ships, 51 were foreign owned. Seven hundred ninety-four (794) American-owned ships are flagged in other nations. 2005 statistics from the United States Maritime Administration focused on the larger segment of the fleet: ships of and over. Two hundred forty-five (245) privately owned American-flagged ships are of this size, and 153 of those meet the Jones Act criteria. The World War II era was the peak for the U.S. fleet. During the post-war year of 1950, for example, U.S. carriers represented about 43 percent of the world's shipping trade. By
Nearly all ships operated by U.S.-headquartered cruise lines are registered in foreign countries. [SEP] Ship registration // to register on their national register, and some forbid foreign-flagged vessels from trading between ports within the country (a practice known as cabotage). The country of registration is a ship's flag state and determines its nationality as well as which country's laws govern its operation and the behavior of its crew. Each registry has its own rules as to the types of vessels that it will accept for registration. The Liberian Registry, for example, registers seagoing vessels of more than 500 net tons that conduct foreign trade. Vessels over the age of 20 require a waiver as well as the
Nearly all ships operated by U.S.-headquartered cruise lines are registered in foreign countries. [SEP] Economy of Bermuda // open ship registry, enabling foreign-owned ships to be registered in Bermuda, fly its flag, and be subject to its maritime and taxation laws. It is considered a flag of convenience state. In 2012, 139 vessels were registered in Bermuda of which 105 were foreign-owned (76%). 160 ships were registered in 2017, including 18 oil tankers, 10 bulk carriers, 8 container ships, and one general cargo ship. Thirteen of the 17 ships of the Princess Cruises line are registered in Bermuda, as are seven of the eight ships of the P&O Cruises line. In 2011, the Cunard Line registered all its
Rihanna's Instagram message to followers to throw away the Snapchat app caused the company's share value to fall by hundreds of millions of dollars in one day. [SEP] Snapchat // in market value. Over 1.2 million people signed a Change.org petition asking the company to remove the new app update. In March 2018, a poll about Rihanna was posted stating, "Would you rather punch Chris Brown or slap Rihanna?" Rihanna tweeted that Snapchat was "insensitive to domestic violence victims" and urged fans to delete Snapchat. Snapchat Snapchat is a multimedia messaging app used globally, created by Evan Spiegel, Bobby Murphy, and Reggie Brown, former students at Stanford University, and developed by Snap Inc., originally Snapchat Inc. One of the principal features of Snapchat is that pictures and messages are usually
Rihanna's Instagram message to followers to throw away the Snapchat app caused the company's share value to fall by hundreds of millions of dollars in one day. [SEP] Rihanna // due to endorsements such as vita coco. In 2015 Rihanna earned $26 million, which resulted in her net worth rising to $160 million by 2016. In July 2016, Forbes magazine placed Rihanna at number 13 on their list of highest paid celebrities, earning $75 million between 2015 and 2016. Rihanna currently lives in Manhattan, New York City and owns a penthouse there that is worth $14 million. In March 2018, Rihanna posted a statement on Twitter shaming Snapchat for mocking her domestic violence situation. The ad put out by Snapchat asked if users would rather "slap Rihanna or punch Chris
Rihanna's Instagram message to followers to throw away the Snapchat app caused the company's share value to fall by hundreds of millions of dollars in one day. [SEP] Snap Inc. // the lawsuit as an example of opportunists who seek out rapidly successful companies in an attempt "to also profit from the hard work of others". On September 9, 2014, the company announced that they had settled the lawsuit for an initially undisclosed amount. The settlement amount was revealed on February 2, 2017, in Snap's SEC public filling to be $157.5 million. As part of the settlement, they credited Brown with the conceptual idea for Snapchat. The press release published by Snapchat's communication department quoted Spiegel:"We are pleased that we have been able to resolve this matter in a manner that
Rihanna's Instagram message to followers to throw away the Snapchat app caused the company's share value to fall by hundreds of millions of dollars in one day. [SEP] Snapchat // against Spiegel and Murphy by falsely claiming to be a product inventor. On behalf of their clients, the law firm concluded that Reggie Brown had made no contributions of value or worth, and was therefore entitled to a share of nothing. In September 2014, Brown settled with Spiegel and Murphy for $157.5 million and was credited as one of the original authors of Snapchat. In their first blog post, dated May 9, 2012, CEO Evan Spiegel described the company's mission: "Snapchat isn’t about capturing the traditional Kodak moment. It’s about communicating with the full range of human emotion — not
Rihanna's Instagram message to followers to throw away the Snapchat app caused the company's share value to fall by hundreds of millions of dollars in one day. [SEP] Snap Inc. // die. The company was founded on September 16, 2011, by Evan Spiegel and Bobby Murphy, simultaneously on the initial relaunch of Picaboo as Snapchat. On December 31, 2013, the application was hacked and 4.6 million usernames and phone numbers were leaked to the Internet. Also in December 2013, Emily White, who had formerly been a high-profile executive with Facebook, Instagram, and Google, was hired as COO. Her tenure with the company ended in March 2015. By January 2014, the company had refused offers of acquisition, including overtures from Mark Zuckerberg to buy Snapchat and its assets, with Spiegel commenting that
Rihanna's Instagram message to followers to throw away the Snapchat app caused the company's share value to fall by hundreds of millions of dollars in one day. [SEP] Snap Inc. // is satisfactory to Mr. Brown and the Company. We acknowledge Reggie's contribution to the creation of Snapchat and appreciate his work in getting the application off the ground." The Federal Trade Commission alleged that the company had exaggerated to the public the degree to which mobile app images and photos could actually be made to disappear. Following a settlement in 2014, Snapchat was not fined, but the app service agreed to have its claims and policies monitored by an independent party for a period of 20 years. The redesign of the Snapchat app in early 2018 made changes that a
Rihanna's Instagram message to followers to throw away the Snapchat app caused the company's share value to fall by hundreds of millions of dollars in one day. [SEP] Snap Inc. // number of users, including Kylie Jenner, were not happy with. Around 1.2 million people petitioned Snap, Inc. to roll back the redesign. Snap, Inc's reply makes no concessions, other than noting "We completely understand the new Snapchat has felt uncomfortable for many." Due to the redesign and other market factors in 2018, such as the growth of Instagram Stories and WhatsApp Status, Daily Active Users (DAU) of the app only rose 2% from Q4 2017. Snap, Inc. stock fell more than 15% in after hours trading following the earnings report release. Growth of daily active users slowed in Q1 2018,
Rihanna's Instagram message to followers to throw away the Snapchat app caused the company's share value to fall by hundreds of millions of dollars in one day. [SEP] Influencer marketing // million dollars to post an image of herself on Instagram wearing clothing from a brand she did not name. Kardashian explained that she had turned down the deal because this brand tends to steal ideas from her husband’s clothing line, Yeezy. She also claimed the company was notorious for making money from her and her sisters' red carpet and everyday looks. Brand deals are likely to break, and sponsors are just as likely to pull out of backings, if an influencer is under scrutiny. Making money is the primary goal, and if a brand risks being tarnished at the hands
Rihanna's Instagram message to followers to throw away the Snapchat app caused the company's share value to fall by hundreds of millions of dollars in one day. [SEP] Snapchat // media, and places significant emphasis on users interacting with virtual stickers and augmented reality objects. As of February 2018, Snapchat has 187 million daily active users. According to documents and deposition statements, Reggie Brown brought the idea for a disappearing pictures application to Evan Spiegel because Spiegel had prior business experience. Brown and Spiegel then pulled in Bobby Murphy, who had experience coding. The three worked closely together for several months and launched Snapchat as "Picaboo" on the iOS operating system on July 8, 2011. Reggie Brown was ousted from the company months after it was launched. The app was
Rihanna's Instagram message to followers to throw away the Snapchat app caused the company's share value to fall by hundreds of millions of dollars in one day. [SEP] Rihanna // Ate My Homework", which represents photographers Erik Asla and Deborah Anderson. In 2017, Rihanna launched cosmetic company Fenty Beauty under LVMH's Kendo Brands. The partnership was worth $10 million and would see Rihanna release various beauty products. The first installment of Fenty Beauty was released on 8 September 2017 in stores and online, available in over 150 countries. It included an array of products including foundations, highlighters, bronzers, blush compacts, lip glosses, and blotting sheets and was praised for its diverse range for all skin colours. "Time" magazine named Fenty Beauty as one "The 25 Best Inventions of 2017", citing
Coronavirus forces U.S. churches to offer Easter Sunday services unlike any before. [SEP] Coronavirus // in a small number of nucleotides. In 2003, following the outbreak of Severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) which had begun the prior year in Asia, and secondary cases elsewhere in the world, the World Health Organization (WHO) issued a press release stating that a novel coronavirus identified by a number of laboratories was the causative agent for SARS. The virus was officially named the SARS coronavirus (SARS-CoV). The epidemic resulted in over 8,000 infections, about 10% of which resulted in death. X-ray crystallography studies performed at the Advanced Light Source of Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory have begun to give hope
Coronavirus forces U.S. churches to offer Easter Sunday services unlike any before. [SEP] Middle East respiratory syndrome // pneumonia and acute renal failure. After routine diagnostics failed to identify the causative agent, Zaki contacted Ron Fouchier, a leading virologist at the Erasmus Medical Center (EMC) in Rotterdam, the Netherlands, for advice. Fouchier sequenced the virus from a sample sent by Zaki. Fouchier used a broad-spectrum "pan-coronavirus" real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) method to test for distinguishing features of a number of known coronaviruses (such as OC43, 229R, NL63, and SARS-CoV), as well as for RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp), a gene conserved in all coronaviruses known to infect humans. While the screens for known coronaviruses were all negative, the
Coronavirus forces U.S. churches to offer Easter Sunday services unlike any before. [SEP] Coronavirus // 2013, a case of contamination from human to human in France was confirmed by the French Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. In addition, cases of person-to-person transmission have been reported by the Ministry of Health in Tunisia. Two confirmed cases seem to have caught the disease from their late father, who became ill after a visit to Qatar and Saudi Arabia. By Oct. 30 2013, there were 124 cases and 52 deaths in Saudi Arabia. After the Dutch Erasmus Medical Centre sequenced the virus, the virus was given a new name, Human Corona Virus-Erasmus Medical Centre (HCoV-EMC). The final
Coronavirus forces U.S. churches to offer Easter Sunday services unlike any before. [SEP] Coronavirus // and adenoids, in humans primarily in the winter and early spring seasons. Coronaviruses can cause pneumonia, either direct viral pneumonia or a secondary bacterial pneumonia, and bronchitis, either direct viral bronchitis or a secondary bacterial bronchitis. The much publicized human coronavirus discovered in 2003, SARS-CoV which causes severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS), has a unique pathogenesis because it causes both upper and lower respiratory tract infections. The significance and economic impact of coronaviruses as causative agents of the common cold are hard to assess because, unlike rhinoviruses (another common cold virus), human coronaviruses are difficult to grow in the laboratory.
Coronavirus forces U.S. churches to offer Easter Sunday services unlike any before. [SEP] SARS coronavirus // been confirmed by other independent groups. The SARS coronavirus is one of several viruses identified by WHO as a likely cause of a future epidemic in a new plan developed after the Ebola epidemic for urgent research and development before and during an epidemic toward new diagnostic tests, vaccines and medicines. SARS, or Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, is the disease caused by SARS coronavirus. It causes an often severe illness marked initially by systemic symptoms of muscle pain, headache, and fever, followed in 2–14 days by the onset of respiratory symptoms, mainly cough, dyspnea, and pneumonia. Another common finding in
Coronavirus forces U.S. churches to offer Easter Sunday services unlike any before. [SEP] Fast Sunday // coronary artery disease. American Mormons generally have a 61% rate of coronary artery disease, versus 66% of non-Mormon Americans, which has generally been attributed to abstention from tobacco. However, among American Mormons seeking coronary diagnosis (average age 64), all of whom reported abstention from alcohol, caffeine, and tobacco, 59% of those who fasted were found to have coronary artery disease (70% blockage or more), versus 67% of those who did not fast. Fast Sunday Fast Sunday (previously Fast Day) is a Sunday set aside by The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) for fasting by its members.
Coronavirus forces U.S. churches to offer Easter Sunday services unlike any before. [SEP] Coronavirus // has emerged around the world. Its economic importance is as yet unclear, but shows high mortality in piglets. The most recent common ancestor of the coronavirus has been placed at 8,000 years BC. They may be considerably older than this. Another estimate places the most recent common ancestor (MRCA) of all coronaviruses ~8100 BC. The MRCA of Alphacoronavirus, Betacoronavirus, Gammacoronavirus, and Deltacoronavirus have been placed at ~2400 BC, ~3300 BC, ~2800 BC and ~3000 BC, respectively. It appears that bats and birds, the warm blooded flying vertebrates, are ideal hosts for the coronavirus gene source with bats for Alphacoronavirus and
Coronavirus forces U.S. churches to offer Easter Sunday services unlike any before. [SEP] Human coronavirus OC43 // cases occurring in the winter months. Human coronavirus OC43 Human coronavirus OC43 is an enveloped, positive-stranded RNA virus in the species "Betacoronavirus-1" (genus "Betacoronavirus", subfamily "Coronavirinae", family "Coronaviridae", order "Nidovirales"). Four HCoV-OC43 genotypes (A to D), have been identified with genotype D most likely arising from recombination. The complete genome sequencing of two genotype C and D strains and bootscan analysis shows recombination events between genotypes B and C in the generation of genotype D. Of 29 strains identified, none belong to the more ancient genotype A. Molecular clock analysis using spike and nucleocapsid genes dates the most recent common
Coronavirus forces U.S. churches to offer Easter Sunday services unlike any before. [SEP] SARS coronavirus // SARS coronavirus The SARS coronavirus, sometimes shortened to SARS-CoV, is the virus that causes severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS). On April 16, 2003, following the outbreak of SARS in Asia and secondary cases elsewhere in the world, the World Health Organization (WHO) issued a press release stating that the coronavirus identified by a number of laboratories was the official cause of SARS. Samples of the virus are being held in laboratories in New York City, San Francisco, Manila, Hong Kong, and Toronto. On April 12, 2003, scientists working at the Michael Smith Genome Sciences Centre in Vancouver, British Columbia finished
Coronavirus forces U.S. churches to offer Easter Sunday services unlike any before. [SEP] Coronavirus // of a vaccine against the disease "since [the spike protein] appears to be recognized by the immune system of the host." Following the high-profile publicity of SARS outbreaks, there has been a renewed interest in coronaviruses among virologists. For many years, scientists knew about only two human coronaviruses (HCoV-229E and HCoV-OC43). The discovery of SARS-CoV added a third human coronavirus. By the end of 2004, three independent research labs reported the discovery of a fourth human coronavirus. It has been named NL63, NL, and the New Haven coronavirus by different research groups. The three labs are still arguing over which
Drug may delay high blood pressure in some [SEP] Nitrovasodilator // drugs are also contraindicated in patients that have recently taken PDE5 inhibitors such as sildenafil (Viagra). Most side effects are direct consequences of the vasodilation and the following low blood pressure. They include headache ("nitrate headache") resulting from the widening of blood vessels in the brain, reflex tachycardia (fast heart rate), flush, dizziness, nausea and vomiting. These effects usually subside after a few days if the treatment is continued. Occasionally, severe hypotension occurs shortly after beginning of treatment, possibly resulting in intensified angina symptoms or syncope, sometimes with bradycardia (slow heart rate). A number of drugs add to the low
Drug may delay high blood pressure in some [SEP] Alpha blocker // blood vessels, or drugs used for erectile dysfunction (i.e. sildenafil, tamsulosin, etc.). This stimulates exaggerated hypotension. Alternative alpha blockers, such as prazosin, tamsulosin, doxazosin, or terazosin can have adverse interactions with beta blockers, erectile dysfunction drugs, anxiolytics, and antihistamines. Again, these interactions can cause dangerous hypotension. Furthermore, in rare cases, drug interactions can cause irregular, rapid heartbeats or an increase blood pressure. Yohimbine can interact with stimulants, hypertension drugs, naloxone, and clonidine. Interactions with such drugs can cause either an unintended increase in blood pressure or potentiate an increase in blood pressure. Finally, in drugs with both alpha and beta
Drug may delay high blood pressure in some [SEP] Antihypertensive drug // the body may be present even prior to observed elevation of blood pressure. Therefore, the use of hypertensive medications may be started in individuals with apparent normal blood pressures but who show evidence of hypertension-related nephropathy, proteinuria, atherosclerotic vascular disease, as well as other evidence of hypertension-related organ damage. If lifestyle changes are ineffective, then drug therapy is initiated, often requiring more than one agent to effectively lower hypertension. Which type of many medications should be used initially for hypertension has been the subject of several large studies and various national guidelines. Considerations include factors such as age, race, and
Drug may delay high blood pressure in some [SEP] Antihypertensive drug // be equally effective, may have negative impacts on national healthcare budgets. As of 2018, the best available evidence favors low-dose thiazide diuretics as the first-line treatment of choice for high blood pressure when drugs are necessary. Although clinical evidence shows calcium channel blockers and thiazide-type diuretics are preferred first-line treatments for most people (from both efficacy and cost points of view), an ACE inhibitor is recommended by NICE in the UK for those under 55 years old. Diuretics help the kidneys eliminate excess salt and water from the body's tissues and blood. In the United States, the JNC8 (Eighth Joint
Drug may delay high blood pressure in some [SEP] Cardiovascular disease // pressure "and", quite likely, through other mechanisms. Moderate evidence was found that high salt intake increases cardiovascular mortality; and some evidence was found for an increase in overall mortality, strokes, and left ventricular hypertrophy. Blood pressure medication reduces cardiovascular disease in people at risk, irrespective of age, the baseline level of cardiovascular risk, or baseline blood pressure. The commonly-used drug regimens have similar efficacy in reducing the risk of all major cardiovascular events, although there may be differences between drugs in their ability to prevent specific outcomes. Larger reductions in blood pressure produce larger reductions in risk, and most people
Drug may delay high blood pressure in some [SEP] Olodaterol // Adverse effects generally were rare and mild in clinical studies. Most common, but still affecting no more than 1% of patients, were nasopharyngitis (running nose), dizziness and rash. To judge from the drug's mechanism of action and from experiences with related drugs, hypertension (high blood pressure), tachycardia (fast heartbeat), hypokalemia (low blood levels of potassium), shaking, etc., might occur in some patients, but these effects have rarely, if at all, been observed in studies. Based on theoretical considerations, co-application of other beta-adrenoceptor agonists, potassium lowering drugs (e.g. corticosteroids, many diuretics, and theophylline), tricyclic antidepressants, and monoamine oxidase inhibitors could increase
Drug may delay high blood pressure in some [SEP] Antihypertensive drug // Antihypertensive drug Antihypertensives are a class of drugs that are used to treat hypertension (high blood pressure). Antihypertensive therapy seeks to prevent the complications of high blood pressure, such as stroke and myocardial infarction. Evidence suggests that reduction of the blood pressure by 5 mmHg can decrease the risk of stroke by 34%, of ischaemic heart disease by 21%, and reduce the likelihood of dementia, heart failure, and mortality from cardiovascular disease. There are many classes of antihypertensives, which lower blood pressure by different means. Among the most important and most widely used drugs are thiazide diuretics, calcium channel blockers,
Drug may delay high blood pressure in some [SEP] Intracranial pressure // as well as increasing blood pressure. Analgesia and sedation (particularly in the pre-hospital, ER, and neurointensive care setting) are used to reduce agitation and metabolic needs of the brain, but these medications may cause low blood pressure and other side effects. Thus if full sedation alone is ineffective, patients may be paralyzed with drugs such as atracurium. Paralysis allows the cerebral veins to drain more easily, but can mask signs of seizures, and the drugs can have other harmful effects. Paralysing drugs are only introduced if patients are fully sedated (this is essentially the same as a general anaesthetic) Craniotomies
Drug may delay high blood pressure in some [SEP] Molsidomine // hypotension (low blood pressure), during lactation, and in combination with PDE5 inhibitors such as sildenafil. The most common adverse effects are headache, which occurs in 10–25% of patients, and low blood pressure. Side effects occurring in fewer than 1% of patients include dizziness, nausea, reflex tachycardia (fast heartbeat), hypersensitivity reactions, as well as thrombocytopenia (low blood platelet count) in rare cases. The blood pressure lowering effect of molsidomine can be amplified significantly by PDE5 inhibitors, potentially leading to fainting or myocardial infarction, and to a lesser extent by other antihypertensive drugs such as beta blockers, calcium channel blockers, or other
Drug may delay high blood pressure in some [SEP] Alpha-1 blocker // and interrupt the baroreflex response. In doing so, they may cause dizziness, lightheadedness, or fainting when rising from a lying or sitting posture (known as orthostatic hypotension or postural hypotension). For this reason, it is generally recommended that alpha blockers should be taken at bedtime. Additionally, the risk of first dose phenomenon may be reduced by starting at a low dose and titrating upwards as needed. Because these medications may cause orthostatic hypotension, as well as low blood pressure in general, these agents may interact with other medications that increase risk for low blood pressure, such as other antihypertensives and
A list of chemicals, written as if they were ingredients on a food label, accurately depicts the chemical composition of a banana. [SEP] Organic food // bananas, are picked when unripe, are cooled to prevent ripening while they are shipped to market, and then are induced to ripen quickly by exposing them to propylene or ethylene, chemicals produced by plants to induce their own ripening; as flavor and texture changes during ripening, this process may affect those qualities of the treated fruit. With respect to chemical differences in the composition of organically grown food compared with conventionally grown food, studies have examined differences in nutrients, antinutrients, and pesticide residues. These studies generally suffer from confounding variables, and are difficult to generalize due to differences in the
A list of chemicals, written as if they were ingredients on a food label, accurately depicts the chemical composition of a banana. [SEP] Urban legends about drugs // in organic chemistry and requires both expensive laboratory equipment and expensive, carefully controlled precursor chemicals. Originating from a recipe originally published as a hoax in the "Berkeley Barb" in March 1967, variants of this legend often circulate on the Internet and were popular on BBSs well before the widespread availability of Internet access through William Powell's "The Anarchist Cookbook." This book claimed ""Musa sapientum" Bananadine" was a mild psychoactive drug found in banana peels. The slang terms "mellow yellow" and "saffron" (for the color of the peels) were borrowed from the 1966 Donovan song, "Mellow Yellow," perhaps because the phrase
A list of chemicals, written as if they were ingredients on a food label, accurately depicts the chemical composition of a banana. [SEP] Banana // enzyme that breaks down starch into sugar, influencing the taste of bananas. The greener, less ripe bananas contain higher levels of starch and, consequently, have a "starchier" taste. On the other hand, yellow bananas taste sweeter due to higher sugar concentrations. Furthermore, ethylene signals the production of pectinase, an enzyme which breaks down the pectin between the cells of the banana, causing the banana to soften as it ripens. Bananas are eaten deep fried, baked in their skin in a split bamboo, or steamed in glutinous rice wrapped in a banana leaf. Bananas can be made into jam. Banana pancakes
A list of chemicals, written as if they were ingredients on a food label, accurately depicts the chemical composition of a banana. [SEP] Banana // Depending upon cultivar and ripeness, the flesh can vary in taste from starchy to sweet, and texture from firm to mushy. Both the skin and inner part can be eaten raw or cooked. The primary component of the aroma of fresh bananas is isoamyl acetate (also known as "banana oil"), which, along with several other compounds such as butyl acetate and isobutyl acetate, is a significant contributor to banana flavor. During the ripening process, bananas produce the gas ethylene, which acts as a plant hormone and indirectly affects the flavor. Among other things, ethylene stimulates the formation of amylase, an
A list of chemicals, written as if they were ingredients on a food label, accurately depicts the chemical composition of a banana. [SEP] Food coloring // continued to contribute to consumer concern about color addition to foodstuffs. In the 20th century, the improvement of chemical analysis and the development of trials to identify the toxic features of substances added to foods led to the replacement of the negative lists by lists of substances allowed to be used for the production and the improvement of foods. This principle is called a positive listing, and almost all recent legislations are based on it. Positive listing implies that substances meant for human consumption have been tested for their safety, and that they have to meet specified purity criteria prior
A list of chemicals, written as if they were ingredients on a food label, accurately depicts the chemical composition of a banana. [SEP] Sugar // occurs, volatile chemicals such as diacetyl are released, producing the characteristic caramel flavor. Fructose, galactose, and glucose are all simple sugars, monosaccharides, with the general formula CHO. They have five hydroxyl groups (−OH) and a carbonyl group (C=O) and are cyclic when dissolved in water. They each exist as several isomers with dextro- and laevo-rotatory forms that cause polarized light to diverge to the right or the left. Lactose, maltose, and sucrose are all compound sugars, disaccharides, with the general formula CHO. They are formed by the combination of two monosaccharide molecules with the exclusion of a molecule of water.
A list of chemicals, written as if they were ingredients on a food label, accurately depicts the chemical composition of a banana. [SEP] Food science // foods. The biological substances include such items as meat, poultry, lettuce, beer, and milk as examples. It is similar to biochemistry in its main components such as carbohydrates, lipids, and protein, but it also includes areas such as water, vitamins, minerals, enzymes, food additives, flavors, and colors. This discipline also encompasses how products change under certain food processing techniques and ways either to enhance or to prevent them from happening. Food physical chemistry is the study of both physical and chemical interactions in foods in terms of physical and chemical principles applied to food systems, as well as the application
A list of chemicals, written as if they were ingredients on a food label, accurately depicts the chemical composition of a banana. [SEP] Banana // specks in the interior of the fruit. Bananas are naturally slightly radioactive, more so than most other fruits, because of their potassium content and the small amounts of the isotope potassium-40 found in naturally occurring potassium. The banana equivalent dose of radiation is sometimes used in nuclear communication to compare radiation levels and exposures. The word banana is thought to be of West African origin, possibly from the Wolof word "banaana", and passed into English via Spanish or Portuguese. The genus "Musa" was created by Carl Linnaeus in 1753. The name may be derived from Antonius Musa, physician to the
A list of chemicals, written as if they were ingredients on a food label, accurately depicts the chemical composition of a banana. [SEP] Food Chemicals Codex // Food Chemicals Codex The Food Chemicals Codex (FCC) is a collection of internationally recognized standards for the purity and identity of food ingredients. It features roughly 1,200 monographs, including food-grade chemicals, processing aids, foods (such as vegetable oils, fructose, whey, and amino acids), flavoring agents, vitamins, and functional food ingredients (such as lycopene, olestra, and short chain fructooligosaccharides). The FCC also contains ingredients, such as sucrose and essential oils, that are not frequently found in other food additive standards resources. The FCC has been published since 1966. It provides essential criteria and analytical methods to authenticate and determine the quality
A list of chemicals, written as if they were ingredients on a food label, accurately depicts the chemical composition of a banana. [SEP] California Green Chemistry Initiative // things like price or expertise. For example, one apple juice brand may be assumed healthier because it cost more and because the brand is advertised as “healthy” and “recommended by mothers”. Further, it may be assumed that the product is safe for consumption if it is sitting on a grocery store shelf and probably would not be approved by the government if it contained harmful chemicals. Assumptions such as these could inform a typical purchasing decision, despite their inaccuracy. Perhaps given more information, the same brand of apple juice would be less desirable if information on unhealthy preservatives, additives or
U.S. Sen. Elizabeth Warren said or argued to the effect that "taxpayers must fund sex reassignment surgery. [SEP] Michelle Kosilek // to the use of "taxpayer dollars" for Kosilek's surgery. Relatives of Cheryl McCaul objected to the court-ordered surgery and one cousin suggested it would lead someone unable to afford such surgery to commit murder in order to receive it at government expense. In 2006, the editors of the "Boston Globe" had opposed Kosilek's surgery because "[p]rivate insurers rarely pay for sex-change operations" and "hormone treatment and expert therapy" are "sufficient". In 2012, the "Globe" said that Wolf's decision made a persuasive case that the surgery was "medically necessary, not an elective procedure", however "distasteful". The paper had also stopped referring
U.S. Sen. Elizabeth Warren said or argued to the effect that "taxpayers must fund sex reassignment surgery. [SEP] O'Donnabhain v. Commissioner // O'Donnabhain v. Commissioner O'Donnabhain v. Commissioner 134 T.C. 34 (2010) is a case decided by the United States Tax Court. The issue for the court was whether a taxpayer who has been diagnosed with gender identity disorder can deduct sex reassignment surgery costs as necessary medical expenses under . The IRS argued that such surgery is cosmetic and not medically necessary. On Feb 2, 2010 the court ruled that O'Donnabhain should be allowed to deduct the costs of her treatment for gender-identity disorder, including sex-reassignment surgery and hormone treatments. In its decision, the court found the IRS position was "at
U.S. Sen. Elizabeth Warren said or argued to the effect that "taxpayers must fund sex reassignment surgery. [SEP] Transgender legal history in the United States // whether a taxpayer who has been diagnosed with gender identity disorder can deduct sex reassignment surgery costs as necessary medical expenses under . The IRS argued that such surgery is cosmetic and not medically necessary. On Feb 2, 2010 the court ruled that O'Donnabhain should be allowed to deduct the costs of her treatment for gender-identity disorder, including sex-reassignment surgery and hormone treatments. In its decision, the court found the IRS position was "at best a superficial characterization of the circumstances" that is "thoroughly rebutted by the medical evidence". In 2011 Vandy Beth Glenn, a transgender woman, won a lawsuit
U.S. Sen. Elizabeth Warren said or argued to the effect that "taxpayers must fund sex reassignment surgery. [SEP] Michelle Kosilek // the case, estimated at more than $700,000. Kosilek's attorneys offered to forgo that payment if the state would cover the cost of Kosilek's surgery and forgo its appeal. Representative Barney Frank supported the decision of Governor Deval Patrick to appeal Wolf's decision. He said "I think it should be clear she has a right to present herself as a woman, and that should be honored by the prison system" but he thought that Kosilek's advocates were wrong to describe her case "as a general trans[gender rights] issue". U.S. Senator Scott Brown and his 2012 election opponent Elizabeth Warren both objected
U.S. Sen. Elizabeth Warren said or argued to the effect that "taxpayers must fund sex reassignment surgery. [SEP] Political positions of Elizabeth Warren // a piece of legislation to address perceived conflicts of interest held by president-elect Donald Trump. Warren supports abortion rights and opposes any Supreme Court nominees who "oppose legal abortion". Warren supports same-sex marriage and passing the Employment Non-Discrimination Act (ENDA). In July 2015, Warren and fellow senator Tammy Baldwin joined eight-one congressional colleagues in signing a letter to the Food and Drug Administration requesting it lift a ban on gay and bisexual males donating blood and implement a one-year deferral on the grounds that the ban served "to perpetuate the stereotype that all men who have sex with men pose
U.S. Sen. Elizabeth Warren said or argued to the effect that "taxpayers must fund sex reassignment surgery. [SEP] O'Donnabhain v. Commissioner // diagnosed gender identity disorder." The IRS issued a memorandum stating that: Whether gender reassignment surgery is a treatment for an illness or disease is controversial. For instance, Johns Hopkins Hospital has closed its gender reassignment clinic and ceased performing these operations. ... In light of the Congressional emphasis on denying a deduction for procedures relating to appearance in all but a few circumstances and the controversy surrounding whether GRS is a treatment for an illness or disease, the materials submitted do not support a deduction. In the clearest possible statement the US Tax Court declared "In its decision yesterday, the
U.S. Sen. Elizabeth Warren said or argued to the effect that "taxpayers must fund sex reassignment surgery. [SEP] Mark L. Wolf // stop to Beacon Hill’s “culture of arrogance.” (Boston Globe, Sept. 10, 2011). 2012: Wolf ordered that the Massachusetts Department of Corrections must provide Michelle Kosilek (a pre-operative transsexual who is imprisoned for the murder of Kosilek's wife) with sex reassignment surgery, which the DOC's medical personnel have determined is medically necessary, as a treatment for Kosilek's gender dysphoria. In his ruling, Wolf wrote, "[The] fact that sex reassignment surgery is for some people medically necessary has recently become more widely recognized." This case was reversed. 2018: Five undocumented immigrants and their spouses filed a lawsuit against the US government alleging
U.S. Sen. Elizabeth Warren said or argued to the effect that "taxpayers must fund sex reassignment surgery. [SEP] Andrew Hastie (politician) // Intelligence and Security, he was then invited to chair the committee in 2017. Hastie is a public opponent of same sex marriage. Hastie has been critical of the ADF for spending more than $1 million on sex reassignment surgery for staff experiencing gender dysphoria stating that “I do not see how these surgeries enhance our war-fighting capability as a nation." On 27 April 2018, Prime Minister Hon Malcolm Turnbull met with Hastie in Lakelands to announce $824 million of federal funding to build three major infrastructure projects in the Division of Canning. This commitment represents one quarter of all federal
U.S. Sen. Elizabeth Warren said or argued to the effect that "taxpayers must fund sex reassignment surgery. [SEP] Wesley Warren Jr. // Medicaid, which would involve cutting away the swollen tissue and performing reconstructive surgery, including skin grafts to restore his penis and testicles. However, Warren was advised that they might have to be removed along with the tissue. This was not welcome news: "Basically, he was telling me there was a good chance that I would be castrated and have to go to the bathroom through a tube for the rest of my life. I really would like to have a relationship with a woman. I should be in the prime of my life right now." At a further evaluation at
U.S. Sen. Elizabeth Warren said or argued to the effect that "taxpayers must fund sex reassignment surgery. [SEP] O'Donnabhain v. Commissioner // chosen entirely for looks. Many questions remain about the religious bias of the IRS, as the results of the follow-up study were published in a Catholic journal the IRS would later use to close out deductions for surgery. The IRS's decision to classify O'Donnabhain's sex reassignment surgery as cosmetic "sparked outrage" from experts who specialize in gender identity disorder. According to Marshall Forstein, associate professor of psychiatry at Harvard Medical School, "it's absolutely clear that transgender identity is a condition discussed in diagnostic manuals. It seems the IRS is now in the business of practicing medicine without a license." O'Donnabhain
Too many" tattoos "on visible body parts" keep some applicants out of the military. [SEP] History of tattooing // be enough to qualify; resultant "excessive scarring" may be disqualifying. Further, Air Force members may not have tattoos on their neck, face, head, tongue, lips or scalp. The United States Army regulates tattoos under AR 670-1, last updated in 2015. Soldiers are permitted to have tattoos as long as they are not on the neck, hands, or face, with exceptions existing for of one ring tattoo on each hand and permanent makeup. Additionally, tattoos that are deemed to be sexist, racist, derogatory, or extremist continue to be banned. The United States Coast Guard policy has changes over the years.Tattoos should
Too many" tattoos "on visible body parts" keep some applicants out of the military. [SEP] History of tattooing // not be visible over the collarbone or when wearing a V-neck shirt. Tattoos or military brands on the arms should not surpass the wrist. But only one hand tattoos of a form of ring are permitted when not exceeding inch width. Face tattoos are also permitted as permanent eyeliners for females as long as they are appropriately worn and not brightly colored to fit uniform dressing code. Disrespectful derogatory tattoos and sexually explicit are prohibited on the body. The United States Marine Corps has disclosed a new policy meeting their new standards of professionalism in the military appearance, on the
Too many" tattoos "on visible body parts" keep some applicants out of the military. [SEP] Religious symbolism in the United States military // have been prohibited is the feeling that they "are unseemly and make service members appear sloppy." Army Regulation 670-1 states that "personal appearance"—including "strict grooming standards"—is an "essential part of discipline" and "a neat and well-groomed appearance by all soldiers is fundamental to the Army and contributes to building the pride and esprit essential to an effective military force." Some changes in military regulations are making it easier for civilian clergy with beards who hold reserve commissions as chaplains to report for short periods of active duty without shaving off their beards. For example, Air Force Instruction 36-2903, revised July
Too many" tattoos "on visible body parts" keep some applicants out of the military. [SEP] History of tattooing // was held to be a purely expressive activity protected by the First Amendment by the Ninth Circuit in 2010. Throughout the world's different military branches, tattoos are either regulated under policies or strictly prohibited to fit dress code rules. The United States Air Force regulates all kinds of body modification. Any tattoos which are deemed to be "prejudicial to good order and discipline", or "of a nature that may bring discredit upon the Air Force" are prohibited. Specifically, any tattoo which may be construed as "obscene or advocate sexual, racial, ethnic or religious discrimination" is disallowed. Tattoo removal may not
Too many" tattoos "on visible body parts" keep some applicants out of the military. [SEP] Tattoo // the British Armed Forces. Depending on vocation, tattoos are accepted in a number of professions in America. Companies across many fields are increasingly focused on diversity and inclusion. In Britain, there is evidence of women with tattoos, concealed by their clothing, throughout the 20th century, and records of women tattooists such as Jessie Knight from the 1920s. A study of "at-risk" (as defined by school absenteeism and truancy) adolescent girls showed a positive correlation between body modification and negative feelings towards the body and low self-esteem; however, the study also demonstrated that a strong motive for body modification is the
Too many" tattoos "on visible body parts" keep some applicants out of the military. [SEP] Church of Body Modification // the military personnel in the United States, attaching, affixing or displaying objects, articles, jewelry, or ornamentation to, through, or under their skin, tongue, or any other body part is prohibited (where the term "skin" is not only confined to external skin, but includes the tongue, lips, inside the mouth, and other surfaces of the body not readily visible). This applies to all soldiers on or off duty. The only exception is for female soldiers, who may wear earrings (consistent with paragraph 3–4d) with the service, dress, and mess uniforms. Male soldiers are not authorized to wear earrings. Church of Body
Too many" tattoos "on visible body parts" keep some applicants out of the military. [SEP] Facial hair in the military // and approved. The requests can be for religious reasons (full beard only), health reasons such as acne (no restrictions on facial hair styles), and on the grounds of "free will", which means the facial hair (mustache, a goatee or a full beard all of which must be well groomed) has to be part of the soldiers identity and part of his self-esteem. If the request is due to health reasons, it must be approved by the military doctor and lasts up to half a year. if the request is due to religious reasons or "free will", it must be approved
Too many" tattoos "on visible body parts" keep some applicants out of the military. [SEP] Religious symbolism in the United States military // the air force requires that approved religious head coverings must be either "dark blue or black,", the navy and coast guard requirement is that it must be "either black or hair-colored" (that is, as spelled out in coast guard policies, "black or match the hair color of the wearer") Jewelry with religious meaning or symbolism is also authorized, providing it meets the "neat, conservative, and discreet" requirement, and generally follows the rules for any jewelry that can be worn with a military uniform. Tattoos that "advocate religious discrimination" are listed among prohibited tattoos for military personnel. All branches of the
Too many" tattoos "on visible body parts" keep some applicants out of the military. [SEP] Body painting // water, alcohol, soap, or another mild solvent. More elaborate temporary tattoos may be made using stencils and airbrush equipment. It is common in armies all over the world for soldiers in combat to paint their faces and other exposed body parts (hands, for example) in natural colors such as green, tan, and loam for camouflage purposes. In various South American armies, it is a tradition to use face paint on parade in respect to the indigenous tribes. As well as paint, temporary tattoos can be used to decorate the body. "Glitter tattoos" are made by applying a clear, cosmetic-grade glue
Too many" tattoos "on visible body parts" keep some applicants out of the military. [SEP] Personnel of the United States Navy // piercing, and tattoos on the head, neck, and hands are banned for both sexes. Personnel of the United States Navy The United States Navy has nearly 500,000 personnel, approximately a quarter of whom are in ready reserve. Of those on active duty, more than eighty percent are enlisted sailors, and around fifteen percent are commissioned officers; the rest are midshipmen of the United States Naval Academy and midshipmen of the Naval Reserve Officer Training Corps at over 180 universities around the country and officer candidates at the navy's Officer Candidate School. Sailors prove they have mastered skills and deserve responsibilities
Former Fox News host Bill O’Reilly was hospitalized in New York after being beaten by a group of "liberals. [SEP] Sean Hannity // months after Bill O'Reilly was fired from Fox News in the wake of a number of women alleging that he sexually harassed them, Hannity hosted O'Reilly on his show. Some Fox News employees criticized the decision. In the interview, O'Reilly attacked liberal media watchdog groups and said that he should have fought harder when those groups targeted his advertisers. According to CNN, during the interview, Hannity found kinship with O'Reilly as he appeared "to feel that he and O'Reilly have both become victims of liberals looking to silence them." Hannity came under criticism in October 2017 when he attacked Democrats
Former Fox News host Bill O’Reilly was hospitalized in New York after being beaten by a group of "liberals. [SEP] Bill O'Reilly (political commentator) // a vibrator and told her about sexual fantasies involving her", and that he threatened that if she reported his behavior, "Roger Ailes... will go after you... Ailes operates behind the scenes, strategizes, and makes things happen so that one day BAM! The person gets what's coming to them but never sees it coming." On October 15, 2004, Fox sought judicial permission to fire Mackris, but she was never dismissed. On October 19, 2004, Mackris filed an amended complaint seeking further damages for illegal retaliatory actions by O'Reilly, Fox News, and the News Corporation-owned newspaper the "New York Post". On October
Former Fox News host Bill O’Reilly was hospitalized in New York after being beaten by a group of "liberals. [SEP] Bill O'Reilly (political commentator) // advances. Legal fees in this case were settled and paid for by Fox News. "The New York Times" reported the settlement to have been worth $1.6 million. In August 2016, former Fox host Andrea Tantaros filed a sexual harassment lawsuit against Fox News, claiming that O'Reilly made sexually suggestive comments to her. In April 2017, "The New York Times" reported that O'Reilly and Fox News had settled five lawsuits against O'Reilly dating back to 2002. Previously, only the settlements to Mackris and Huddy were publicly reported; "The Times" reported that Fox hosts Rebecca Diamond and Laurie Dhue settled sexual harassment
Former Fox News host Bill O’Reilly was hospitalized in New York after being beaten by a group of "liberals. [SEP] Bill O'Reilly (political commentator) // in April 2017. In October 2017, "The New York Times" reported an additional settlement of $32 million that O'Reilly had paid to settle a sixth sexual harassment lawsuit, which had been filed against him by former Fox News analyst Lis Wiehl because of the "non-consensual sexual relationship" she says O'Reilly initiated with her. The revelation of this sixth settlement caused O'Reilly to be dropped by the United Talent Agency. O'Reilly is considered to be a conservative commentator. He is registered as a member of the Independence Party of New York, and was formerly registered as a Republican. O'Reilly was born
Former Fox News host Bill O’Reilly was hospitalized in New York after being beaten by a group of "liberals. [SEP] Fox News // correction to the story. A number of Fox News hosts have welcomed Bill O'Reilly to their shows and paid tributes to Roger Ailes after his death. In May 2017, Hannity called Ailes "a second father" and said to Ailes's "enemies" that he was "preparing to kick your a** in the next life". Ailes had the year before been fired from Fox News after a number of women alleged he sexually harassed them. In September 2017, several months after Bill O'Reilly was fired from Fox News in the wake of a number of women alleging he sexually harassed them, Hannity hosted
Former Fox News host Bill O’Reilly was hospitalized in New York after being beaten by a group of "liberals. [SEP] Countdown with Keith Olbermann // media commentators, specifically Fox News and its main primetime anchor, Bill O'Reilly. He criticized Fox and O'Reilly for purportedly deceiving their viewers in service to their alleged right-wing biases, frequently including the latter in "Countdown"'s "Worst Person in the World" segment. O'Reilly, while not directly mentioning Olbermann, launched an online petition implicitly asking MSNBC to fire him, and, in conjunction with a call-in campaign organized by Mike Stark, threatened Stark for mentioning Olbermann by name after phoning in to O'Reilly's radio show. O'Reilly and other Fox personalities accused MSNBC of facilitating a liberal media bias, in what Olbermann described as
Former Fox News host Bill O’Reilly was hospitalized in New York after being beaten by a group of "liberals. [SEP] Bill O'Reilly (political commentator) // 28, 2004, O'Reilly and Mackris reached an out-of-court settlement in which Mackris dropped her sexual-assault suit against O'Reilly, and O'Reilly dropped his extortion claim against Mackris. The terms of the agreement are confidential, but in 2017 "The New York Times" reported that O'Reilly had agreed to pay Mackris about $9 million and that they would issue a public statement that there had been "no wrongdoing whatsoever". After Fox News executive Roger Ailes was the subject of a sexual harassment lawsuit filed by former Fox News coworker Gretchen Carlson, O'Reilly said in July 2016 that Ailes was a "target" as a
Former Fox News host Bill O’Reilly was hospitalized in New York after being beaten by a group of "liberals. [SEP] Bill O'Reilly (political commentator) // 24; he normally took a vacation around Easter. On April 19, Fox News announced that O'Reilly would not be returning to the network. The program was subsequently renamed "The Factor" on April 19 and aired its last episode on April 21. O'Reilly later stated his regret that he did not "fight back" against his accusers the way Sean Hannity did when facing the loss of advertisers around the same time. In October 2017, "The New York Times" reported that O'Reilly had reached a previously undisclosed $32 million settlement with former Fox News legal analyst Lis Wiehl in January 2017. Wiehl
Former Fox News host Bill O’Reilly was hospitalized in New York after being beaten by a group of "liberals. [SEP] Bill O'Reilly (political commentator) // "famous, powerful or wealthy person" and called him the "best boss I ever had." After Ailes was fired and the network settled the lawsuit with Carlson, O'Reilly declined to comment further, saying that "for once in my life, I'm going to keep my big mouth shut." Shortly after Ailes was fired, Fox News settled a sexual harassment claim against O'Reilly with former Fox host Juliet Huddy. Huddy alleged that O'Reilly pursued a romantic relationship with her, made lewd remarks, including a telephone call during which he appeared to be masturbating, and tried to have her fired when she rejected his
Former Fox News host Bill O’Reilly was hospitalized in New York after being beaten by a group of "liberals. [SEP] Bill O'Reilly (political commentator) // show. After Walsh's complaint, 21st Century Fox hired the law firm of Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison to conduct an investigation into that allegation; the firm also conducted an investigation into the allegations against Fox News chairman Roger Ailes, which led to his ouster from Fox. After the five settlements were reported, the "O'Reilly Factor" lost more than half its advertisers within a week; almost 60 companies withdrew their television advertising from the show amid a growing backlash against O'Reilly. On April 11, O'Reilly announced he would take a two-week vacation and would return to the program on April
Vitamin D3 Might Ease Menstrual Cramps [SEP] Menstruation // sensations may interfere with normal activities, and include menstrual pain (dysmenorrhea), migraine headaches, and depression. Dysmenorrhea, or severe uterine pain, is particularly common for young females (one study found that 67.2% of girls aged 13–19 have it). The medications in the non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) class are commonly used to relieve menstrual cramps. Some herbs are also claimed to help. Some women experience emotional disturbances starting one or two weeks before their period, and stopping soon after the period has started. Symptoms may include mental tension, irritability, mood swings, and crying spells. Problems with concentration and memory may occur. There
Vitamin D3 Might Ease Menstrual Cramps [SEP] Birth control // and can be inserted immediately after delivery. They may also be used immediately after an abortion. Once removed, even after long term use, fertility returns to normal immediately. While copper IUDs may increase menstrual bleeding and result in more painful cramps, hormonal IUDs may reduce menstrual bleeding or stop menstruation altogether. Cramping can be treated with painkillers like non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. Other potential complications include expulsion (2–5%) and rarely perforation of the uterus (less than 0.7%). A previous model of the intrauterine device (the Dalkon shield) was associated with an increased risk of pelvic inflammatory disease, however the risk is
Vitamin D3 Might Ease Menstrual Cramps [SEP] Dysmenorrhea // systematic review however found limited evidence that the birth control pill, containing low doses or medium doses of oestrogen, reduces pain associated with dysmenorrhea. In addition, no differences between different birth control pill preparations were found. Norplant and Depo-provera are also effective, since these methods often induce amenorrhea. The intrauterine system (Mirena IUD) may be useful in reducing symptoms. A review indicated the effectiveness of transdermal nitroglycerin. There is insufficient evidence to recommend the use of any herbal or dietary supplements for treating dysmenorrhea, including, melatonin, vitamin E, fennel, dill, chamomile, cinnamon, damask rose, rhubarb, guava, and uzara. Further research
Vitamin D3 Might Ease Menstrual Cramps [SEP] Stefania Follini // and rice, which partially resulted in her losing Vitamin D. She reported that at one point her menstrual cycle had stopped. She regularly did judo to maintain her strength and flexibility. When she finally emerged from the cave at the experiment's end in May 22, 1989, and was asked to guess the date, she estimated that it was March 14 or 15 —only two months from the start of the experiment instead of the four that had actually transpired. She was described as "looking pale and thin" after coming out from the cave. Having spent about 130 days in the
Vitamin D3 Might Ease Menstrual Cramps [SEP] Premenstrual syndrome // medication may cause PMS-related symptoms in some women, and may reduce physical symptoms in other women. They do not relieve emotional symptoms. Progesterone support has been used for many years but evidence of its efficacy is inadequate. Gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonists can be useful in severe forms of PMS but have their own set of significant potential side effects. Tentative evidence supports vitamin B6 and chasteberry. Evidence does not support the use of St. John's wort, soy, vitamin E, and saffron. Evening primrose oil may be useful. PMS is generally a stable diagnosis, with susceptible women experiencing the same symptoms at
Vitamin D3 Might Ease Menstrual Cramps [SEP] Vitamin D // German Society for Nutrition recommends 20 µg. The European Menopause and Andropause Society recommends postmenopausal women consume15 µg (600 IU) until age 70, and 20 µg (800 IU) from age 71. This dose should be increased to 100 µg (4,000 IU) in some patients with very low vitamin D status or in case of co-morbid conditions. Although vitamin D is not present naturally in most foods, it is commonly added as a fortification in manufactured foods. In some countries, staple foods are artificially fortified with vitamin D. In general, vitamin D is found in fungi and vitamin D is found
Vitamin D3 Might Ease Menstrual Cramps [SEP] Symptoms and discomforts of pregnancy // from a systematic review suggest that exercise or acupuncture reduced pelvic pain or lumbo-pelvic pain more than usual care. Occurs in between an estimated 21% to 62% of cases, possibly due to edema. Leg cramps (involuntary spasms in calf muscles) can affect between 30% to 50% of women during pregnancy, especially during the last three months of pregnancy. Leg cramps can be extremely painful and whilst they usually last only a few seconds, they can last for minutes. It is not clear whether some oral drug treatments (such as magnesium, calcium, vitamin B or vitamin C) are effective in treating
Vitamin D3 Might Ease Menstrual Cramps [SEP] Vitamin D // six months to five years, pregnant or breastfeeding women, and sun-deprived elderly people should take daily vitamin supplements to ensure sufficient vitamin D intake. In July 2016, Public Health England recommended that everyone consider taking a daily supplement containing 10 µg of vitamin D during autumn and winter because of inadequate sunlight for vitamin D synthesis. The Swedish Food Administration recommends a daily intake of 10 μg (400 IU) of vitamin D3 for children and adults up to 75 years, and 20 μg (800 IU) for adults 75 and older. Non-government organisations in Europe have made their own recommendations. The
Vitamin D3 Might Ease Menstrual Cramps [SEP] Dysmenorrhea // that in nulliparous women with primary dysmenorrhea, the severity of menstrual pain decreased significantly after age 40. A questionnaire concluded that menstrual problems, including dysmenorrhea, were more common in females who had been sexually abused. A survey in Norway showed that 14 percent of females between the ages of 20 to 35 experience symptoms so severe that they stay home from school or work. Among adolescent girls, dysmenorrhea is the leading cause of recurrent short-term school absence. Dysmenorrhea Dysmenorrhea, also known as painful periods, or menstrual cramps, is pain during menstruation. Its usual onset occurs around the time that menstruation
Vitamin D3 Might Ease Menstrual Cramps [SEP] Menstruation // is to prevent pregnancy, it may be used to treat some menstrual symptoms and syndromes which affect menstruation, such as polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS), endometriosis, adenomyosis, amenorrhea, menstrual cramps, menstrual migraines, menorrhagia (excessive menstrual bleeding), menstruation-related or fibroid-related anemia and dysmenorrhea (painful menstruation). Using the combined birth control pill, it is also possible for a woman to to delay or completely eliminate menstrual periods, a practice called menstrual suppression. Some women do this simply for convenience in the short-term, while others prefer to eliminate periods altogether when possible. This can be done either by skipping the placebo pills, or using
Ebola Vaccines Show Promise in New Study [SEP] Responses to the West African Ebola virus epidemic // Guinea. Previously, a 2015 study in medical journal "The Lancet" reported that the vaccine was 100 percent effective after tests on 4000 people in Guinea who had been in close contact with Ebola patients. Gavi global alliance signed a $5 million advance to buy the vaccine and help expedite the licensing and WHO approval process. In April 2017, a panel of researchers from U.S. National Academy of Medicine questioned the vaccine’s effectiveness in preventing Ebola contractions in a study sponsored by the National Institutes of Health, the Food and Drug Administration and the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.
Ebola Vaccines Show Promise in New Study [SEP] Ebola vaccine // University of Texas-Austin was developing a nasal spray Ebola vaccine, which the team had been working on for seven years. The team reported in 2014 that in the nonhuman primate studies it conducted, the vaccine had more efficacy when delivered via nasal spray than by injection. As of early November 2014 further development by the team appeared unlikely due to lack of funding. Vaxart Inc. is developing a vaccine technology in the form of a temperature-stable tablet which may offer advantages such as reduced cold chain requirement, and rapid and scalable manufacturing. In January 2015, Vaxart announced that it had
Ebola Vaccines Show Promise in New Study [SEP] Ebola vaccine // secured funding to develop its Ebola vaccine to Phase 1 trial. In late 2014 and early 2015, a double-blind, randomized Phase 1 trial was conducted in the Jiangsu Province of China; the trial examined a vaccine that contains glycoproteins of the 2014 strain, rather than those of the 1976 strain. The trial found signals of efficacy and raised no significant safety concerns. A study published in "Science" during March 2015 demonstrates that vaccination with a weakened form of the Ebola virus provides some measure of protection to non-human primates. This study was conducted in accordance with a protocol approved by
Ebola Vaccines Show Promise in New Study [SEP] Ebola vaccine // CanSino Biotechnology Inc. Their findings were consistent with previous tests on rVSV-ZEBOV in Africa and Europe. In January 2015, Marie-Paule Kieny, the WHO's assistant director-general of health systems and innovation, announced that the vaccines cAd3-EBO Z and VSV-EBOV had demonstrated acceptable safety profiles during early testing and would soon progress to large-scale trials in Liberia, Sierra Leone and Guinea. The trials would involve up to 27,000 people and comprise 3 groups – members of the first two groups would receive the two candidate vaccines, while the third group will receive a placebo. Both vaccines have since successfully completed the Phase
Ebola Vaccines Show Promise in New Study [SEP] Ebola virus epidemic in Guinea // of Health and Human Services, and conducted by researchers from the U.S. National Academy of Medicine, called the vaccine’s effectiveness in preventing Ebola infections into question. In particular, the authors criticized the methodology of the patient trail, and argued that the protection provided by the vaccine may be lower than officially announced. The WHO approved the vaccine for use in the ongoing Ebola outbreak on May 29, 2017. It was announced in May 2017 that the Gamaleya Center for Epidemiology and Microbiology in Russia would deliver 1000 doses of an independently produced vaccine to Guinea for testing. According to a
Ebola Vaccines Show Promise in New Study [SEP] Ebola vaccine // 2000 people. According to local media reports, the Guinean government authorized the commencement of the trials on 9 August 2017 at the Rusal-built Research and Diagnostic Center of Epidemiology and Microbiology in Kindia. The trials are slated to continue until 2018. Credit Suisse has estimated that the U.S. government will eventually provide over $1 billion in contracts to companies to develop medicine and vaccines for Ebola virus disease. Congress passed a law in 2004 that funds a national stockpile of vaccines and medicine for possible outbreaks of disease. A number of companies are developing Ebola vaccines: GlaxoSmithKline, NewLink Genetics, Johnson
Ebola Vaccines Show Promise in New Study [SEP] Ebola vaccine // of animal model studies that replicate human disease, combined with evidence of safety and a potentially potent immune response (antibodies in the blood) from humans given the vaccine. Clinical trials involve the administration of the vaccine to healthy human subjects to evaluate the immune response, identify any side effects and determine the appropriate dosage. In December 2016, a study found the VSV-EBOV vaccine to be 70–100% effective against the Ebola virus, making it the first proven vaccine against the disease. A vaccine based on the vesicular stomatitis virus which was genetically modified to express a surface glycoprotein of Zaire Ebola
Ebola Vaccines Show Promise in New Study [SEP] Ebola vaccine // were recruited for trial EBL01 by University of Oxford, U.K. Initial results were released in November 2014; all 20 volunteers developed antibodies against Ebola and there were no significant concerns raised about safety. In December 2014, University of Oxford expanded the trial to include a booster vaccine based on MVA-BN, a strain of Modified vaccinia Ankara, developed by Bavarian Nordic, to investigate whether it can help increase immune responses further. The trial which has enrolled a total of 60 volunteers will see 30 volunteers vaccinated with the booster vaccine. As of April 2015, Phase 3 trial with a single dose
Ebola Vaccines Show Promise in New Study [SEP] RVSV-ZEBOV vaccine // governments. In 2005, a single intramuscular injection of the EBOV or MARV vaccine was found to induce completely protective immune responses in nonhuman primates (crab-eating macaques) against corresponding infections with the otherwise typically lethal EBOV or MARV. In 2010, PHAC licensed the intellectual property on the vaccine to a small U.S. company called Bioprotection Systems, which was a subsidiary of NewLink Genetics; Newlink had funding from the U.S. Defense Threat Reduction Agency to develop vaccines. In December 2013, the largest-ever Ebola epidemic started in West Africa, specifically, in Guinea. In September or October 2014, Newlink formed a steering committee among
Ebola Vaccines Show Promise in New Study [SEP] Ebola vaccine // February 2015, Novavax had completed 2 primate studies on baboons and macaques and had initiated a Phase 1 clinical trial in Australia. The Lipid nanoparticle (LNP)-encapsulated siRNAs rapidly adapted to target the Makona outbreak strain of EBOV and are able to protect 100% of rhesus monkeys against lethal challenge when treatment was initiated at 3 days postexposure while animals were viremic and clinically ill. The top line Phase 1 human trial results showed that the adjuvanted Ebola GP Vaccine was highly immunogenic at all dose levels. On November 5, 2014, the "Houston Chronicle" reported that a research team at the
EPA watchdog: Health monitoring after Harvey was lacking. [SEP] Range Resources // the hearing, but did not. In March 2012, the EPA dropped its order against the company. In December 2013, the federal Office of the Inspector General, addressing complaints by six US senators, issued a report concluding that the EPA had been justified in issuing its 2010 emergency order, and had acted reasonably in withdrawing the order after the company had agreed to groundwater quality monitoring. The top EPA official from Region 6 who oversaw the Parker County water contamination case resigned in 2012 amidst a video surfacing of him advocating for the "crucifying" of oil companies. In 2018, a study
EPA watchdog: Health monitoring after Harvey was lacking. [SEP] New York City Department of Environmental Protection // 2003, the Office of Environmental, Health and Safety Compliance (EHS) was formed to administer the DEP's comprehensive safety and compliance efforts, which included the EHS Employee Concerns Program. In 2006, the term of probation was extended and the BWT was included under the federal monitor's oversight following a discharge of untreated sewage into the East River after emergency generators failed to operate during the August 2003 blackout. On December 25, 2009, probation and federal oversight of the DEP ended. Facilitates DEP employee reporting of observed environmental violations and unsafe employee conditions. Helps employees identify and prevent the harassment and intimidation
EPA watchdog: Health monitoring after Harvey was lacking. [SEP] Hurricane Harvey // related storm damage and releases of hazardous pollutants. Two oil storage tanks owned by Burlington Resources Oil and Gas collectively spilled 30,000 gallons of crude in DeWitt County. An additional 8,500 gallons of wastewater was spilled in the incidents. On August 30, the CEO of Arkema warned one of its chemical plants in Crosby, Texas, could explode or be subject to intense fire due to the loss of "critical refrigeration" of materials. All workers at the facility and residents within were evacuated. Eight of the plant's nine refrigeration units failed without power, enabling the stored chemicals to decompose and become
EPA watchdog: Health monitoring after Harvey was lacking. [SEP] Michael Dourson // bronze medals for his work on IRIS, ambient water criteria, sewage sludge rulemaking, and developing risk methodology during his 15-year tenure with the agency. He also served as a member of EPA’s Science Advisory Board for six years. Dourson worked in various roles in Cincinnati, Chicago, and Washington D.C. before founding the nonprofit Toxicology Excellence for Risk Assessment (TERA) in 1995. TERA determines the risk profile of chemicals, and maintained the International Toxicity Estimates for Risk (ITER) database until TERA was absorbed by the University of Cincinnati in 2015. The National Institutes of Health (NIH) Toxicology Data Network (TOXNET) includes
EPA watchdog: Health monitoring after Harvey was lacking. [SEP] BioWatch // that, as EPA filters are located based on different policies than what would provide optimum locations for counter-bioterrorism sensors, the BioWatch filters may not be optimally located. Furthermore, the BioWatch system may miss releases that take place within the gaps in coverage. The House of Representatives also concluded that models used to predict the spread of an infectious agent after release and detection may be inaccurate. The Congressional Report also raises concerns as to whether BioWatch can detect pathogens in large, polluted cities, as well as issues relating to the BioWatch filter reporting harmful pathogens that are actually within safe
EPA watchdog: Health monitoring after Harvey was lacking. [SEP] Flint water crisis // Leader Jim Ananich, Democrat of Flint, said, "There's been a failure at all levels to accurately assess the scale of the public health crisis in Flint, and that problem is ongoing. However, the EPA's Miguel Del Toral did excellent work in trying to expose this disaster. Anyone who read his memo and failed to act should be held accountable to the fullest extent of the law." Del Toral later told "The Flint Journal", "I was stunned when I found out they did not have corrosion control in place. In my head, I didn't believe that. I thought: That can't be
EPA watchdog: Health monitoring after Harvey was lacking. [SEP] Health effects arising from the September 11 attacks // Bush has been faulted by the Sierra Club for allegedly interfering with the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) interpretations and pronouncements regarding air quality. On September 18, 2001, EPA administrator Christine Todd Whitman told the public, via a press release, "We are very encouraged that the results from our monitoring of air-quality and drinking-water conditions in both New York and near the Pentagon show that the public in these areas is not being exposed to excessive levels of asbestos or other harmful substances" and that "Given the scope of the tragedy from last week, I am glad to reassure
EPA watchdog: Health monitoring after Harvey was lacking. [SEP] Food & Water Watch // organization’s campaigns. It has supported work opposing the use of pollution trading to solve environmental challenges as well as calls for more regulations of concentrated animal feeding operations. Food & Water Watch sued the USDA’s Farm Service Agency in 2017 for “failing to adequately consider environmental impacts before supporting a loan guarantee for a poultry operation on Maryland’s Eastern Shore.” The organization's lawyers also backed the Environmental Protection Agency in a 2016 suit that challenged the agency’s practice of making public the location of permitted concentrated animal feeding operations. BP Whistleblower Following the 2010 Deepwater Horizon Oil Disaster, a subcontractor
EPA watchdog: Health monitoring after Harvey was lacking. [SEP] Hurricane Harvey // on Mexico's Gulf Coast, on September 9, 2017. Venezuela offered $5 million through the state-owned Citgo Petroleum, which operates a refinery in Corpus Christi. The floodwaters contain a number of hazards to the environment and human health. The Houston Health Department stated that "millions of contaminants" were present in floodwaters. These include "E. coli" and coliform bacteria; measurements of colony-forming units showed the concentrations were so high that there were risks of contracting flesh-eating disease from the water. Houston officials stated that the Houston drinking water and sewer systems were intact; however, "hundreds of thousands of people across the 38
EPA watchdog: Health monitoring after Harvey was lacking. [SEP] Newburgh, New York // leaving the office vacant until her successor Torrance Harvey was appointed the following month. In May 2016, the city requested help for its PFOS contaminated water supply under Superfund; The source of the contamination was foam used during firefighting drills held by the Stewart Air National Guard Fire Department. Representative Sean Patrick Maloney demanded Emergency Action after EPA announced PFOA and PFOS Standards for Drinking Water, and called Stewart Air National Guard Base being "the most likely source" of contamination. Tensions flared during the city's hotly contested 1995 mayoral election. Allegations of electoral fraud had dogged the city's first African-American
West Virginia women have chance for sweep in US House races. [SEP] 2010 United States House of Representatives elections in West Virginia // the state, has been represented by Republican Congresswoman Shelley Moore Capito since 2001. Although Moore Capito faced serious challenges to her re-election in 2006 and 2008, she was not seen as vulnerable this year. The Congresswoman faced Democratic nominee Virginia Lynch Graf and Constitution Party candidate Phil Hudok in the general election, whom she was able to defeat in an overwhelming landslide to win a sixth term in Congress. Incumbent Democratic Congressman Nick Rahall had represented this conservative-leaning district, based in the southern portion of the state, since he was initially elected in 1976. Rahall had not faced many serious
West Virginia women have chance for sweep in US House races. [SEP] 2014 United States Senate election in West Virginia // Shelley Moore Capito. It was the thirteenth U.S. Senate election that involved two major party female nominees in U.S. history. Capito defeated Tennant and became the first female Senator elected in West Virginia's history as well as the first Republican elected to the Senate from West Virginia in 58 years. Not only was the 27.4 percent margin the largest for a Republican in a statewide race in West Virginia history, but Tennant's 34.5 percent was the lowest ever recorded for a Democrat in a Senate race in West Virginia. The results of this election were a near complete flip from
West Virginia women have chance for sweep in US House races. [SEP] West Virginia's 3rd congressional district // Trump defeating Democrat Hillary Clinton (wife of Bill Clinton, who carried the district by significant margins in the 1992 and 1996 presidential elections), by a massive margin of 72.5% to 23.3%. Election results from presidential races: The Third District as originally formed in 1863 included Kanawha, Jackson, Mason, Putnam, Cabell, Clay, Wayne, Logan, Boone, Braxton, Nicholas, Roane and McDowell counties. It was essentially the successor of Virginia's 12th congressional district. In 1882, the district was reformed of Logan, Wyoming, McDowell, Mercer, Raleigh, Boone, Kanawha, Fayette, Clay, Nicholas, Greenbrier, Monroe, Summers, Webster, Pocahontas, and Upshur counties. In 1902, Logan, Wyoming, McDowell,
West Virginia women have chance for sweep in US House races. [SEP] 2016 United States House of Representatives elections in West Virginia // Pendleton, Putnam, Randolph, Roane, Upshur, and Wirt counties, including the cities of Charleston and Martinsburg. The incumbent was Republican Alex Mooney, who had represented the 2nd district since 2015. He defeated Marc Savitt in the Republican primary on May 10, 2016. Mark Hunt, a former Democratic state representative, won the Democratic primary. The 3rd district was located in southern West Virginia and consisted of Boone, Cabell, Fayette, Greenbrier, Lincoln, Logan, Mason, McDowell, Mercer, Mingo, Monroe, Nicholas, Pocahontas, Raleigh, Summers, Wayne, Webster, and Wyoming counties, including the cities of Huntington and Beckley. The incumbent was Republican Evan Jenkins, who had represented
West Virginia women have chance for sweep in US House races. [SEP] 2014 United States House of Representatives elections in West Virginia // expressed some interest in running for Senate, he later declared he would not run. He filed for re-election to his House seat on January 15, 2014. Glen Gainer III, the West Virginia State Auditor, sought the Democratic nomination unopposed. Republican Shelley Moore Capito, who had represented West Virginia's 2nd congressional district since 2001, won her seventh term in Congress with almost 70 percent of the vote in 2012. She announced that she would not run for re-election, so that she could run for the United States Senate seat held by retiring Democrat Jay Rockefeller. In 2014, Democrat Nick Rahall, who
West Virginia women have chance for sweep in US House races. [SEP] 2006 United States Senate election in West Virginia // the 2000 election, Republican Shelley Moore Capito, the daughter of Former West Virginia Governor Arch A. Moore, Jr., won a surprise victory over Democrat Jim Humphreys for West Virginia's 2nd Congressional District seat to the United States House of Representatives. She would become the first Republican in West Virginia to hold a Congressional office for more than one term since her father in 1969. Before these two major victories for national and West Virginia Republicans, it was difficult to find a Republican who could mount a formidable campaign against Democrats running for public office in West Virginia. President Bush won
West Virginia women have chance for sweep in US House races. [SEP] Shelley Moore Capito // ran for governor in 2000, Capito ran as a Republican in the open seat in West Virginia's 2nd district, which was anchored in Charleston and stretched from the Ohio River in the west to the Eastern Panhandle, which borders with Virginia and Maryland. She narrowly defeated the Democratic nominee, lawyer Jim Humphreys, 48%–46%. She was the first Republican to represent West Virginia in Congress since 1983, as well as the first woman elected to Congress from West Virginia who was not the widow of a member of Congress. She won re-election to a second term, defeating Humphreys in rematch 60%–40%.
West Virginia women have chance for sweep in US House races. [SEP] Ruth Rowan // garnered 72% of the vote, despite the endorsement of a well-funded challenger by several popular state and local elected officials. Ruth Rowan Ruth Rowan (born September 12, 1948) is an American politician from the U.S. state of West Virginia. She is a member of the Republican Party and is currently the West Virginia House of Delegates member from the 57th District, which represents parts of Mineral County and Hampshire County in West Virginia's Eastern Panhandle. In 2004 she defeated the embattled House Delegate Jerry Mezzatesta for his seat after he was embroiled in a political scandal in 2003-2004. Rowan was
West Virginia women have chance for sweep in US House races. [SEP] 2016 United States House of Representatives elections in West Virginia // the 3rd district since 2015. Former United States Secret Service agent Matt Detch was the Democratic nominee. 2016 United States House of Representatives elections in West Virginia The 2016 United States House of Representatives elections in West Virginia were held on November 8, 2016, to elect the three U.S. Representatives from the state of West Virginia, one from each of the state's three congressional districts. The elections coincided with the 2016 U.S. presidential election, as well as other elections to the House of Representatives, elections to the United States Senate and various state and local elections. The primaries were held
West Virginia women have chance for sweep in US House races. [SEP] 2008 United States Senate election in West Virginia // of Former West Virginia Governor Arch A. Moore, Jr., won a surprise victory over Democrat Jim Humphreys for West Virginia's 2nd Congressional District seat to the United States House of Representatives. She is the first Republican in West Virginia to hold a Congressional office for more than one term since her father (1957–1969). Before these two major victories for national and West Virginia Republicans, it was difficult to find a Republican who could mount a formidable campaign against Democrats running for public office in West Virginia. President Bush won West Virginia again in the 2004 presidential election over John F.
Italy “went against the WHO's ‘law’” against COVID-19 autopsies and “discovered covid is not a virus, but a bacterium” that “clots the blood and reduces the oxygen saturation.” [SEP] Duilio Poggiolini // for the presence of viruses or treated with viral inactivation, which led to the distribution and sale of infectious material and patients were infected. On 27 December 2007, Maria Vittoria De Simone, ordered the Public Prosecutor of Naples to charge Duilio Poggiolini and 10 other suspects for manslaughter. Consequently, 25 years after the first deaths from AIDS among hemophiliacs, a historic criminal trial commenced for hundreds of dead Italians. On 31 July 2008 the Public Prosecutor of Naples requested the indictment e Duilio Poggiolini and 10 other defendants for manslaughter and the Court of Naples was set 6 October 2008.
Italy “went against the WHO's ‘law’” against COVID-19 autopsies and “discovered covid is not a virus, but a bacterium” that “clots the blood and reduces the oxygen saturation.” [SEP] Negri bodies // at a meeting of the Società Medico-Chirurgica of Pavia. The American pathologist Anna Wessels Williams made the same discovery, but because Negri published his results first, the bodies bear his name. Negri was convinced the inclusions were a parasitic protozoon and the etiologic agent of rabies. Later that same year, however, Paul Remlinger and Rifat-Bey Frasheri in Constantinople and, separately, Alfonso di Vestea in Naples showed that the etiologic agent of rabies is a filterable virus. Negri continued until 1909 to try to prove that the intraneuronal inclusions named after him corresponded to steps in the developmental cycle of a
Italy “went against the WHO's ‘law’” against COVID-19 autopsies and “discovered covid is not a virus, but a bacterium” that “clots the blood and reduces the oxygen saturation.” [SEP] Maiztegui National Human Viral Disease Institute // 1,000 people annually and claimed up to a 30% mortality rate in its early years. One of its researchers, Dr. Julio Isidro Maiztegui, developed breakthrough in the treatment of the disease in 1971 when he devised the introduction of blood plasma from recovered patients in saline solution to those whose exposure had taken place under eight days earlier. The treatment, which reduced motality rates from 30% to around 1% of those infected, led to greater support for the work at CEMIC, and in 1978, the National Institute of Hemorrhagic Viruses (INVH) was established in Pergamino, with Dr. Maiztegui as its
Italy “went against the WHO's ‘law’” against COVID-19 autopsies and “discovered covid is not a virus, but a bacterium” that “clots the blood and reduces the oxygen saturation.” [SEP] Baxter International // settle a lawsuit involving 200 Japanese haemophilia patients who had become infected with HIV as a result of using contaminated haemophilia products which were unheated. The Japanese courts ordered for each victim to receive $411,460 by March 29 that year. The Baxter Althane disaster in autumn 2001 was a series of 56 sudden deaths of renal failure patients in Spain, Croatia, Italy, Germany, Taiwan, Colombia and the USA (mainly Nebraska and Texas). All had received hospital treatment with Althane hemodialysis equipment, a product range manufactured by Baxter International, USA. In 2008, the quality of blood thinning products produced by Baxter
Italy “went against the WHO's ‘law’” against COVID-19 autopsies and “discovered covid is not a virus, but a bacterium” that “clots the blood and reduces the oxygen saturation.” [SEP] Contaminated haemophilia blood products // supplied by the Blood Transfusion Service Board. Angelo Magrini, the head of a hemophiliacs' association, said that as of 2001, 1,300 people, including almost 150 children, had died in Italy from infected blood infusions since 1985. An Italian court in Rome ordered the Health Ministry to pay damages to 351 people who contracted HIV and Hepatitis C through blood transfusions; the court said that the ministry was too slow to introduce measures to prevent the virus being spread by donated blood, and did not establish proper checks on plasma and plasma-derived products. Although almost 100 of the victims had already
Italy “went against the WHO's ‘law’” against COVID-19 autopsies and “discovered covid is not a virus, but a bacterium” that “clots the blood and reduces the oxygen saturation.” [SEP] Paolo Boffetta // studies with his participation are running in Germany, France, Denmark, Norway, Netherlands, Finland and Israel for lung cancer risk among asphalt workers; and in Iran for esophageal cancer. Other studies where he is the principal investigator are the retrospective mortality study and cohort study of alcohol-associated cancers in Western Siberia, Russia; the Case-only and case-control study of hepatocellular carcinoma within the International Liver Cancer Study (3 centers in Thailand, Egypt and Italy); or the Case-control study of esophageal cancer in high-risk populations (2 centers in Iran and India). Paolo Boffetta is a Member of the Steering Committee of the Asia
Italy “went against the WHO's ‘law’” against COVID-19 autopsies and “discovered covid is not a virus, but a bacterium” that “clots the blood and reduces the oxygen saturation.” [SEP] Infected blood scandal (France) // in 1985 that the heating of blood made the virus inactive. The book included evidence that as early as 1983, researchers had put forth this assumption. In 1999, the former socialist Prime Minister Laurent Fabius, former Social Affairs Minister Georgina Dufoix and former Health Minister Edmond Herve were charged with "manslaughter". The Court of Justice of Republic found Edmond Herve guilty, and acquitted Fabius and Dufoix. Although Herve was found guilty, he received no sentence. Infected blood scandal (France) France's Infected blood scandal began in April 1991 when doctor and journalist published an article in the weekly magazine the '
Italy “went against the WHO's ‘law’” against COVID-19 autopsies and “discovered covid is not a virus, but a bacterium” that “clots the blood and reduces the oxygen saturation.” [SEP] Clodoveo Ferri // involved in the clinical and laboratory investigations of different autoimmune and neoplastic diseases. In particular, he investigated the pathogenetic role of some viruses in mixed cryoglobulinemia (cryoglobulinemic vasculitis) and systemic sclerosis (scleroderma). In 1991, soon after the discovery of the hepatitis C virus (HCV), he demonstrated the presence of serum viral genome (HCV-RNA) in a large series of mixed cryoglobulinemia patients. This finding suggested a causative role for the same virus in other extrahepatic manifestations of HCV infections, including autoimmune and lymphoproliferative disorders. The association of HCV with B-cell non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma was first demonstrated in 1994. On the basis of
Italy “went against the WHO's ‘law’” against COVID-19 autopsies and “discovered covid is not a virus, but a bacterium” that “clots the blood and reduces the oxygen saturation.” [SEP] Trauma Team // it could be developed into a cure-all as it was so aggressive that after an infection all harmful bacteria was killed. Because the virus was discovered inside its natural host, CR-S01's adopted sister Rosalia Rossellini, it is named the "Rosalia Virus". CR-S01 states that they should be able to find a cure by locating Rosalia in Mexico and cultivating a sample of her blood. Albert is discovered to have died of the Rosalia Virus when Naomi and Gabriel reconstruct and examine his skeleton, which was found in a remote area and taken into government custody. Maria and Naomi fly to
Italy “went against the WHO's ‘law’” against COVID-19 autopsies and “discovered covid is not a virus, but a bacterium” that “clots the blood and reduces the oxygen saturation.” [SEP] Beatrice Hahn // skin cancer and unique form of pneumonia. Gallo's laboratory had been studying this new disease outbreak and Hahn joined the investigation. In 1983, George Shaw joined Gallo's laboratory and he and Hahn began to collaborate on their research. After a fellow researcher, Mikulas Popovic, successfully cultured and isolated the virus, Hahn and Shaw cloned the virus's genome. They were able to determine that the isolated retrovirus was the cause of AIDS. They went on to discover that HIV originated from chimpanzees, gorillas, and sooty mangabey strains of simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV). Contrary to the prevailing scientific opinion, Hahn found that
Increasing numbers of vaccines are associated with increasing rates of autism. [SEP] Epidemiology of autism // increased. These include certain foods, infectious disease, pesticides. There is overwhelming scientific evidence against the MMR hypothesis and no convincing evidence for the thiomersal (or Thimerosal) hypothesis, so these types of risk factors have to be ruled out. Although it is unknown whether autism's frequency has increased, any such increase would suggest directing more attention and funding toward changing environmental factors instead of continuing to focus on genetics. The prevalence of autism in Africa is unknown. The rate of autism diagnoses in Canada was 1 in 450 in 2003. However, preliminary results of an epidemiological study conducted at Montreal Children's
Increasing numbers of vaccines are associated with increasing rates of autism. [SEP] Epidemiology of autism // Hospital in the 200–2004 school year found a prevalence rate of 0.68% (or 1 per 147). A 2001 review of the medical research conducted by the Public Health Agency of Canada concluded that there was no link between MMR vaccine and either inflammatory bowel disease or autism. The review noted, "An increase in cases of autism was noted by year of birth from 1979 to 1992; however, no incremental increase in cases was observed after the introduction of MMR vaccination." After the introduction of MMR, "A time trend analysis found no correlation between prevalence of MMR vaccination and the incidence
Increasing numbers of vaccines are associated with increasing rates of autism. [SEP] Max Wiznitzer // that the rise in autism rates is due not to a real increase in the disorder's prevalence, but rather due to broadening of the diagnostic criteria, decreasing age at diagnosis, and other non-environmental factors. He has also stated that autistic children often show improvement over time, saying, "Over 3 to 5 years, you see an improvement in communication skills." Wiznitzer also considers autism to have a strong genetic basis, arguing that autism is genetic in about 10 to 15 percent of cases, and is of the firm opinion that vaccines do not cause autism as postulated by Andrew Wakefield in
Increasing numbers of vaccines are associated with increasing rates of autism. [SEP] Thiomersal controversy // search for an explanation for the apparent rise in diagnoses, including considering possible environmental factors. The dramatic increase in reported cases of autism during the 1990s and early 2000s is largely attributable to changes in diagnostic practices, referral patterns, availability of services, age at diagnosis, and public awareness, and it is unknown whether autism's true prevalence increased during the period. Nevertheless, some parents believed that there was a growing "autism epidemic" and connected these three factors to conclude that the increase in number of vaccines, and specifically the mercury in thiomersal in those vaccines, was causing a dramatic increase in
Increasing numbers of vaccines are associated with increasing rates of autism. [SEP] Epidemiology of autism // and rates of autism are not increasing. Attention has been focused on whether the prevalence of autism is increasing with time. Earlier prevalence estimates were lower, centering at about 0.5 per 1,000 for autism during the 1960s and 1970s and about 1 per 1,000 in the 1980s, as opposed to today's 1–2 per 1000. The number of reported cases of autism increased dramatically in the 1990s and early 2000s, prompting investigations into several potential reasons: The reported increase is largely attributable to changes in diagnostic practices, referral patterns, availability of services, age at diagnosis, and public awareness. A widely cited
Increasing numbers of vaccines are associated with increasing rates of autism. [SEP] Epidemiology of autism // Israeli children with a diagnosis of ASD receiving disability benefits rose from zero in 1982–1984 to 190 per million in 2004. It was not known whether these figures reflected true increases or other factors such as changes in diagnostic measures. Studies of autism frequency have been particularly rare in the Middle East. One rough estimate is that the prevalence of autism in Saudi Arabia is 18 per 10,000, slightly higher than the 13 per 10,000 reported in developed countries. In 1992, thiomersal-containing vaccines were removed in Denmark. A study at Aarhus University indicated that the rates of autism had stabilized
Increasing numbers of vaccines are associated with increasing rates of autism. [SEP] Epidemiology of autism // non-response, suggesting that methodological factors explain large variances in prevalence rates in different studies. The incidence and changes in incidence with time are unclear in the United Kingdom. The reported autism incidence in the UK rose starting before the first introduction of the MMR vaccine in 1989. However, a perceived link between the two arising from the results of a fraudulent scientific study has caused considerable controversy, despite being subsequently disproved. A 2004 study found that the reported incidence of pervasive developmental disorders in a general practice research database in England and Wales grew steadily during 1988–2001 from 0.11 to
Increasing numbers of vaccines are associated with increasing rates of autism. [SEP] MMR vaccine controversy // and 2001, which had concluded, "ADEM can be caused by natural measles, mumps, and rubella infections, as well as by measles, mumps, and rubella vaccines." In other cases, attorneys did not claim that vaccines caused autism; they sought compensation for encephalopathy, encephalitis, or seizure disorders. The number of reported cases of autism increased dramatically in the 1990s and early 2000s. This increase is largely attributable to changes in diagnostic practices; it is not known how much, if any, growth came from real changes in autism's prevalence, and no causal connection to the MMR vaccine has been demonstrated. In 2004, a
Increasing numbers of vaccines are associated with increasing rates of autism. [SEP] Epidemiology of autism // population of about 300,000 reported a cumulative incidence to age 7 years of 48 cases of ASD per 10,000 children in 1989, and 86 in 1990. After the vaccination rate of the triple MMR vaccine dropped to near zero and was replaced with MR and M vaccine, the incidence rate grew to 97 and 161 cases per 10,000 children born in 1993 and 1994, respectively, indicating that the combined MMR vaccine did not cause autism. A 2004 Japanese autism association reported that about 360.000 people have typical kanner type autism. A 2009 study reported that the annual incidence rate of
Increasing numbers of vaccines are associated with increasing rates of autism. [SEP] Folk epidemiology of autism // that the MMR vaccine causes autism led to a sharp drop in rates of vaccination in the UK and Ireland after 1998, creating a major public health risk. Lower vaccination rates were followed by increases in the incidence of measles and mumps, and the resulting cases of permanent disability and death. Public fears about vaccination have consumed resources that might otherwise have advanced research into the real causes of autism. There have been thirteen studies that properly followed the scientific method and contained large numbers of participants that failed to connect autism to the MMR vaccine. There have been seven
Nancy Mace Says Kamala Harris “advocated for restoring voting rights for the Boston bomber.” [SEP] Kamala Harris // Harris received the endorsements of United Farm Workers cofounder Dolores Huerta, United Educators of San Francisco, and San Francisco Firefighters Local 798. She also received the endorsement of Antonio Villaraigosa, Mayor of Los Angeles. In the general election, she faced Los Angeles County District Attorney Steve Cooley. On election night, November 2, 2010, Cooley prematurely declared victory, but many ballots remained uncounted. On November 24, as the count advanced, Harris was leading by more than 55,000 votes, and Cooley conceded. On January 3, 2011, Harris became the first female, Jamaican American, and Indian American attorney general in California. Harris announced
Nancy Mace Says Kamala Harris “advocated for restoring voting rights for the Boston bomber.” [SEP] Kamala Harris // getting guns off the streets was a priority. During her run for Senate, she was endorsed by former U.S. Representative Gabrielle Giffords, shot in Tucson in 2011. She was also endorsed by the Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence. In response to the 2017 Las Vegas shooting, Harris supported the call for more gun control. Believing that thoughts and prayers are inadequate answers to the shooting, she stated that "...we must also commit ourselves to action. Another moment of silence won't suffice." On August 30, 2017, Harris announced at a town hall in Oakland that she would co-sponsor fellow Senator
Nancy Mace Says Kamala Harris “advocated for restoring voting rights for the Boston bomber.” [SEP] Kamala Harris // the September and October 2018 Brett Kavanaugh Supreme Court confirmation hearings, Harris participated in questioning the FBI Director's limited scope of the investigation on Kavanaugh. Harris was one of the targets of the October 2018 United States mail bombing attempts. Kamala Harris has been considered a top contender for the 2020 Democratic nomination for President. She has publicly stated that she is "not ruling it out". Her spending on Facebook advertising is unusually high, and targeted to reach voters outside California. In July 2018, it was announced that she would publish a memoir, another sign of a possible run. She
Nancy Mace Says Kamala Harris “advocated for restoring voting rights for the Boston bomber.” [SEP] Kamala Harris // laws that are “unjust and unfair.” Harris is opposed to the death penalty, but has said that she would review each case individually. Her position was tested in April 2004, when SFPD Officer Isaac Espinoza was murdered in the Bayview district. Harris announced that she would not seek the death penalty for the man accused of his killing. The decision evoked protests from the San Francisco Police Officers Association, Senator Dianne Feinstein, and others. Those who supported her decision not to seek the death penalty included San Francisco Supervisors Tom Ammiano and Sophie Maxwell, in whose district the murder occurred.
Nancy Mace Says Kamala Harris “advocated for restoring voting rights for the Boston bomber.” [SEP] Kamala Harris // also stumped for candidates in Michigan, Pennsylvania, and South Carolina. Kamala Harris was named as part of the "Hell-No Caucus" by "Politico" in April 2018, along with Senators Cory Booker, Kirsten Gillibrand, Elizabeth Warren, and Bernie Sanders, all of whom overwhelmingly voted to reject Trump's nominees for administration jobs, including Rex Tillerson, Betsy DeVos, and Mike Pompeo; all were considered potential 2020 presidential contenders at that point in time. On December 1, 2018, Harris stated that she would decide whether or not to run in the 2020 presidential election "over the holiday." Source: "Los Angeles Times" Since her election to
Nancy Mace Says Kamala Harris “advocated for restoring voting rights for the Boston bomber.” [SEP] Rose Finkelstein Norwood // her to found a Boston chapter of the Child Study Association. She also took classes at the Boston Trade Union College. During the 1920s she was active in the Women's Trade Union League (WTUL), the Women's International League for Peace and Freedom, and groups defending the Italian-American anarchists Sacco and Vanzetti. As a member of the WTUL she campaigned for women's rights, including the right to continue working after marriage. In 1924, she moderated a forum in which Jennie Loitman Barron, then a young lawyer, spoke about the need to include women in juries. (Women were not allowed to serve
Nancy Mace Says Kamala Harris “advocated for restoring voting rights for the Boston bomber.” [SEP] Bev Harris // electronic voting systems was assisted by Kathleen Wynne and is featured in an HBO documentary, "Hacking Democracy". The film follows a series of investigations, many of them captured live on videotape by Kathleen Wynne. In a public records request, Harris discovered that counterfeit audit records had been provided to Black Box Voting. Harris subsequently found some of the original records in the garbage at a Volusia County warehouse. Florida Fair Elections Coalition founder Susan Pynchon and Broward Election Reform Coalition founder Ellen Brodsky found more original poll tapes in the garbage behind the Volusia County elections office. Harris, Wynne, and
Nancy Mace Says Kamala Harris “advocated for restoring voting rights for the Boston bomber.” [SEP] Bev Harris // An article by "Seattle Weekly" covered this. Bev Harris Bev Harris is an American writer, activist, and founder of Black Box Voting, a national, nonpartisan elections watchdog group. She helped popularize the term "black box voting", while authoring a book of that title. Original investigative work by Harris has been featured in "The New York Times", "The Washington Post", "Time", CNN, ABC, MSNBC, CBS, Fox News, and NBC, as well as by the Associated Press, NPR, and many other mainstream news outlets. In 2006, HBO released the documentary "Hacking Democracy", which follows Bev Harris and Kathleen Wynne, director and associate
Nancy Mace Says Kamala Harris “advocated for restoring voting rights for the Boston bomber.” [SEP] Margaret Foley (suffragist) // women were given the vote, she argued, they could become a major force in improving working conditions in factories and fighting government corruption. Foley worked as a speaker and organizer for the Massachusetts Woman Suffrage Association (MWSA) from 1906 to 1915. She was also involved with the Margaret Brent Suffrage Guild, a Massachusetts Catholic group, and the Boston Equal Suffrage Association for Good Government (BESAGG). Inspired by English suffragists such as the Pankhursts, Massachusetts suffragists began making open-air speaking tours in 1909. Most of the speakers were middle- or upper-class women who were ill at ease addressing crowds of mill
Nancy Mace Says Kamala Harris “advocated for restoring voting rights for the Boston bomber.” [SEP] Kamala Harris // U.S. leadership around the paired goals of reducing the global role and number of nuclear weapons and ensuring strategic stability with America's nuclear-armed adversaries" and calling on President Trump to continue arms negotiations. She opposed the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, and has called for a repeal of the bill's tax cuts for wealthy Americans. In 2018, she proposed a tax cut for the majority of working-class Americans. An analysis by the nonpartisan Tax Policy Center estimated that the bill would reduce federal revenue by $2.8 trillion over a decade. Harris proposed to pay for the tax cuts
A video shows a bolt of lightning striking a river, sparking a large explosion. [SEP] High-speed camera // of interest. Such triggering can also be used to synchronize recording across multiple cameras. The explosion of alkali metals on contact with water has been studied using a high-speed camera. Frame-by-frame analysis of a sodium/potassium alloy exploding in water, combined with molecular dynamic simulations, suggested that the initial expansion may be the result of a Coulomb explosion and not combustion of hydrogen gas as previously thought. Digital high-speed camera footage has strongly contributed to the understanding of lightning when combined with electric field measuring instrumentation and sensors which can map the propagation of lightning leaders through the detection of radio
A video shows a bolt of lightning striking a river, sparking a large explosion. [SEP] Static electricity // (10 kV/cm) depending on humidity. The discharge superheats the surrounding air causing the bright flash, and produces a shock wave causing the clicking sound. The lightning bolt is simply a scaled-up version of the sparks seen in more domestic occurrences of static discharge. The flash occurs because the air in the discharge channel is heated to such a high temperature that it emits light by incandescence. The clap of thunder is the result of the shock wave created as the superheated air expands explosively. Many semiconductor devices used in electronics are very sensitive to the presence of static electricity and
A video shows a bolt of lightning striking a river, sparking a large explosion. [SEP] Stonados // the stones hits a car. Joe, Lee and Maddy investigate finding that the stone is extremely cold, it explodes and shatters destroying the car. The biggest tornado yet forms in the Charles river basin, throwing out stones on both sides of the river, causing widespread destruction and killing a lot of people. Lee and his cameraman televise this event, and advise people to stay in their homes. The Field Operating Agency (FOA) see this announcement and want to organize a widespread evacuation of the coastal areas. Joe predicts that the tornados might start spreading inland, causing even more destruction. A
A video shows a bolt of lightning striking a river, sparking a large explosion. [SEP] Lightning strike // steam explosion can cause rock disintegration and shift boulders. It may be a significant factor in erosion of tropical and subtropical mountains that have never been glaciated. Evidence of lightning strikes includes erratic magnetic fields. Telephones, modems, computers and other electronic devices can be damaged by lightning, as harmful overcurrent can reach them through the phone jack, Ethernet cable, or electricity outlet. Close strikes can also generate electromagnetic pulses (EMPs) – especially during "positive" lightning discharges. Lightning currents have a very fast rise time, on the order of 40 kA per microsecond. Hence, conductors of such currents exhibit marked skin
A video shows a bolt of lightning striking a river, sparking a large explosion. [SEP] Lightning strike // single lightning event is a "flash", which is a complex, multi-stage process, some parts of which are not fully understood. Most cloud to ground flashes only "strike" one physical location, referred to as a "termination". The primary conducting channel, the bright coursing light that may be seen and is called a "strike", is only about one inch in diameter, but because of its extreme brilliance, it often looks much larger to the human eye and in photographs. Lightning discharges are typically miles long, but certain types of horizontal discharges can be upwards of tens of miles in length. The entire
A video shows a bolt of lightning striking a river, sparking a large explosion. [SEP] Lightning // channel. The core temperature of the plasma during the return stroke may exceed 50,000 K, causing it to brilliantly radiate with a blue-white color. Once the electric current stops flowing, the channel cools and dissipates over tens or hundreds of milliseconds, often disappearing as fragmented patches of glowing gas. The nearly instantaneous heating during the return stroke causes the air to expand explosively, producing a powerful shock wave which is heard as thunder. High-speed videos (examined frame-by-frame) show that most negative CG lightning flashes are made up of 3 or 4 individual strokes, though there may be as many as
A video shows a bolt of lightning striking a river, sparking a large explosion. [SEP] Ball lightning // fear of storms." British occultist Aleister Crowley reported witnessing what he referred to as "globular electricity" during a thunderstorm on Lake Pasquaney in New Hampshire in 1916. He was sheltered in a small cottage when he "noticed, with what I can only describe as calm amazement, that a dazzling globe of electric fire, apparently between six and twelve inches (15–30 cm) in diameter, was stationary about six inches below and to the right of my right knee. As I looked at it, it exploded with a sharp report quite impossible to confuse with the continuous turmoil of the lightning, thunder
A video shows a bolt of lightning striking a river, sparking a large explosion. [SEP] Lightning // Lightning Lightning is a sudden electrostatic discharge that occurs typically during a thunderstorm. This discharge occurs between electrically charged regions of a cloud (called intra-cloud lightning or IC), between two clouds (CC lightning), or between a cloud and the ground (CG lightning). The charged regions in the atmosphere temporarily equalize themselves through this discharge referred to as a flash. A lightning flash can also be a "strike" if it involves an object on the ground. Lightning creates light in the form of black body radiation from the very hot plasma created by the electron flow, and sound in the form
A video shows a bolt of lightning striking a river, sparking a large explosion. [SEP] Ball lightning // now assume that such a powerful streamer or spark discharge, in its passage through the air, happens to come upon a vacuous sphere or space formed in the manner described. This space, containing gas highly rarefied, may be just in the act of contracting, at any rate, the intense current, passing through the rarefied gas suddenly raises the same to an extremely high temperature, all the higher as the mass of the gas is very small. But although the gas may have been brought to vivid incandescence, yet its pressure may not be very great. If, upon the sudden passage
A video shows a bolt of lightning striking a river, sparking a large explosion. [SEP] Lightning // the late 1920s. The lightning bolt is a common insignia for military communications units throughout the world. A lightning bolt is also the NATO symbol for a signal asset. The Unicode symbol for lightning is ☇ U+2607 Lightning Lightning is a sudden electrostatic discharge that occurs typically during a thunderstorm. This discharge occurs between electrically charged regions of a cloud (called intra-cloud lightning or IC), between two clouds (CC lightning), or between a cloud and the ground (CG lightning). The charged regions in the atmosphere temporarily equalize themselves through this discharge referred to as a flash. A lightning flash can
California bill would create health care price controls. [SEP] Healthcare reform in the United States // Lara proposed a bill to establish single-payer healthcare within the state of California (SB 562), calling on fellow senators to act quickly in defense of healthcare. The legislation would implement “Medicare for All,” placing all levels of healthcare in the hands of the state. The bill proposed to the California Senate by Senator Lara lacked a method of funding required to finance the $400 billion-dollar policy. Despite this lack of foresight, the bill gained approval from the senate and will move on to await approval by the state assembly. In wake of the Affordable Care Act, the state of California
California bill would create health care price controls. [SEP] Single-payer healthcare // single-payer health care. California attempted passage of a single-payer bill as early as 1994, and the first successful passages of legislation through the California State Legislature, SB 840 or "The California Universal Healthcare Act" (authored by Sheila Kuehl), occurred in 2006 and again in 2008. Both times, Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger vetoed the bill. State Senator Mark Leno has reintroduced the bill in each legislative session since. On February 17, 2017, SB 562, which is also known as "The Healthy California Act" was introduced to the California State Senate. This bill is a $400 billion plan that was sponsored by the
California bill would create health care price controls. [SEP] Harvey Rosenfield // 2012, an initiative to control health insurance costs similarly to Prop 103 received over 800,000 signatures and earned a place on the 2014 ballot. In 1994, during the Clinton healthcare debate, Rosenfield began working to reform the HMO industry. He and his colleague Jamie Court created Californians for Quality Care (a division of Consumer Watchdog) to spearhead the effort. In 1996, the group worked to have the nation's first "patients' bill of rights" proposition placed on the California ballot. However, Proposition 216 failed to pass, garnering only 38.7% of the vote. In 1998, the group proposed additional HMO patient's rights
California bill would create health care price controls. [SEP] Ricardo Lara // In the 2017 legislative session, Senator Lara introduced the Healthy California Act (Senate Bill 562) with Senator Toni Atkins to create a single-payer healthcare plan that replaces private insurance with a publicly run plan that covers all Californians, including an estimated 2.7 million uninsured and as many as one-third of Californians who are underinsured. He is also joint author with Senator Holly Mitchell of a package of bills to reform criminal justice and juvenile justice laws by requiring minors consult with an attorney on a Miranda warning, ensure children under age 12 are not subject to juvenile court and seal
California bill would create health care price controls. [SEP] California Speaks // as the most likely health insurance expansion bill to be passed and signed by California’s governor in 2007. Another bill with substantial support in the legislature proposed a single payer system, SB840. It was similar to a bill that had passed the legislature in a previous session and been vetoed by the Governor. Much of the organizational ideas and effort were provided by AmericaSpeaks, a group which promotes deliberation as a community method in a variety of communities, regions and topics. California Speaks was designed as a non-partisan discussion about the major health insurance reforms in the state. Using neutral,
California bill would create health care price controls. [SEP] Single-payer healthcare // California Nurses Association to implement single-payer healthcare in California. Under this bill, which was co-authored by State Senators Ricardo Lara (D-Bell Gardens) and Toni Atkins (D-San Diego), Californians would have health coverage without having to pay any premiums, co-pays, or deductibles. Under this proposed bill, all California residents will be covered in the Healthy California Act SB 562 regardless of their immigration status. This bill will also include transient students that attend California institutions whom, purchased their healthcare program through the school. Services that will be covered by this bill will need to determine as medically necessary by the patient's
California bill would create health care price controls. [SEP] California Uninsured Patient Hospital Pricing Litigation // Year (CLAY) award. For years, health and consumer groups in California tried to generate media attention on the unfair pricing and collection practices of hospitals and other medical care providers and advocated for legislation that would have offered uninsured patients greater protection. Assembly Bill 774 was introduced to prevent hospital overcharging and other abusive collection practices. The legislation was opposed by the California Hospital Association. In 2004, Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger vetoed the bill, stating that voluntary guidelines adopted by hospitals to protect the uninsured were sufficient. The California uninsured patient hospital pricing litigation demonstrated that the voluntary guidelines were not
California bill would create health care price controls. [SEP] California Speaks // complex set of requirements that employers provide health insurance or pay into a state insurance pool, that health care providers and insurers pay a new fee, and that all individuals be legally required to carry health insurance. The state would use the new fees to expand free or low-cost health insurance to those with low incomes, would allow higher income individuals to purchase “catastrophic” insurance, and would require insurance companies to sell insurance to any applicant (called guaranteed issue) By mid-year, two different Democratic proposals that overlapped the Governor’s proposal had merged into Assembly Bill 8 (AB8) and were seen
California bill would create health care price controls. [SEP] John Pérez // Affordable Care Act, Pérez introduced AB 1602 in January 2010 which created the California Health Benefit Exchange, the first such state based program in the nation created to assist with implementation of the Affordable Care Act. This gives individuals and small businesses access to a broad range of insurance products and cost saving options. AB 1602 passed in the Assembly with 51 votes in favor and 27 votes against with 0 not voting; in the Senate the bills passed with 21 votes in favor and 13 votes against with 5 not voting. States across the nation have used AB 1602
California bill would create health care price controls. [SEP] Harvey Rosenfield // legislation. To bring attention to the issue, the group dumped a truck load of pinto beans at an HMO industry conference to emphasize Consumer Watchdog's opposition to HMO "bean counters" overriding doctors' decisions. Most of the legislative package later passed with the help of the California Nurses Association in November 1998. As a result, California has the strongest HMO patient protection laws in America. Many of the provisions of California's bill were included in the national U.S. Patients' Bill of Rights act, which passed Congress in 2001. In the 2000s, Consumer Watchdog worked to extend Proposition 103's rate protections to
'Universal' blood test for earlier diagnosis of cancer moves closer to market [SEP] Cancer screening // Cancer screening Cancer screening aims to detect cancer before symptoms appear. This may involve blood tests, urine tests, DNA tests other tests, or medical imaging. The benefits of screening in terms of cancer prevention, early detection and subsequent treatment must be weighed against any harms. Universal screening, also known as mass screening or population screening, involves screening everyone, usually within a specific age group. Selective screening identifies people who are known to be at higher risk of developing cancer, such as people with a family history of cancer. Screening can lead to false positive results and subsequent invasive procedures. Screening
'Universal' blood test for earlier diagnosis of cancer moves closer to market [SEP] Cancer screening // cancer and be subjected to potentially dangerous investigations. Cancer screening Cancer screening aims to detect cancer before symptoms appear. This may involve blood tests, urine tests, DNA tests other tests, or medical imaging. The benefits of screening in terms of cancer prevention, early detection and subsequent treatment must be weighed against any harms. Universal screening, also known as mass screening or population screening, involves screening everyone, usually within a specific age group. Selective screening identifies people who are known to be at higher risk of developing cancer, such as people with a family history of cancer. Screening can lead to
'Universal' blood test for earlier diagnosis of cancer moves closer to market [SEP] Cancer // noticeable symptoms appear. This may involve physical examination, blood or urine tests or medical imaging. Cancer screening is not available for many types of cancers. Even when tests are available, they may not be recommended for everyone. "Universal screening" or "mass screening" involves screening everyone. "Selective screening" identifies people who are at higher risk, such as people with a family history. Several factors are considered to determine whether the benefits of screening outweigh the risks and the costs of screening. These factors include: The U.S. Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) issues recommendations for various cancers: Screens for gastric cancer using
'Universal' blood test for earlier diagnosis of cancer moves closer to market [SEP] Biopsy // on the stage of tumor progression, treatment effectiveness, and cancer metastasis risk. This technological development could make it possible to diagnose and manage cancer from repeated blood tests rather than from a traditional biopsy. Circulating tumor cell tests are under development by Epic Sciences. The tests analyze circulating tumor cells (CTCs) Analysis of individual CTCs demonstrated a high level of heterogeneity seen at the single cell level for both protein expression and protein localization and the CTCs reflected both the primary biopsy and the changes seen in the metastatic sites. Analysis of cell-free circulating tumor DNA (cfDNA) has an advantage
'Universal' blood test for earlier diagnosis of cancer moves closer to market [SEP] Cancer research // usually more difficult to treat in later stages. Accurate detection of cancer is also important because false positives can cause harm from unnecessary medical procedures. Some screening protocols are currently not accurate (such as prostate-specific antigen testing). Others such as a colonoscopy or mammogram are unpleasant and as a result some patients may opt out. Active research is underway to address all these problems. One approach is blood screening for a wide variety of tumor markers. Research published in "Cell" suggests future cancer diagnostics to be accomplished at an early stage with a single drop of blood. Emerging topics of
'Universal' blood test for earlier diagnosis of cancer moves closer to market [SEP] Cancer screening // women for breast cancer in an attempt to achieve an earlier diagnosis. The assumption is that early detection will improve outcomes. A number of screening tests have been employed, including clinical and self breast exams, mammography, genetic screening, ultrasound, and magnetic resonance imaging. The use of mammography in universal screening for breast cancer is controversial as it may not reduce all-cause mortality and for causing harms through unnecessary treatments and medical procedures. Many national organizations recommend it for most older women. Cervical screening by the Pap test or other methods is highly effective at detecting and preventing cervical cancer, although
'Universal' blood test for earlier diagnosis of cancer moves closer to market [SEP] Molecular diagnostics // for lifetime risk of breast cancer. Also, some cancers are not always employed with clear symptoms. It is useful to analyze people when they do not show obvious symptoms and thus can detect cancer at early stages. For example, the ColoGuard test may be used to screen people over 55 years old for colorectal cancer. Cancer is a longtime-scale disease with various progression steps, molecular diagnostics tools can be used for prognosis of cancer progression. For example, the OncoType Dx test by Genomic Health can estimate risk of breast cancer. Their technology can inform patients to seek chemotherapy when necessary
'Universal' blood test for earlier diagnosis of cancer moves closer to market [SEP] Biopsy // test. A 2014 study of the blood of 846 patients with 15 different types of cancer in 24 institutions was able to detect the presence of cancer DNA in the body. They found tumor DNA in the blood of more than 80 percent of patients with metastatic cancers and about 47 percent of those with localized tumors. The test does not indicate the tumor site(s) or other information about the tumor. The test did not produce false positives. Such tests may also be useful to assess whether malignant cells remain in patients whose tumors have been surgically removed. Up to
'Universal' blood test for earlier diagnosis of cancer moves closer to market [SEP] Circulating tumor cell // biopsy" which reveals metastasis in action, providing live information about the patient's disease status. Analysis of blood samples found a propensity for increased CTC detection as the disease progressed in individual patients. Blood tests are easy and safe to perform and multiple samples can be taken over time. By contrast, analysis of solid tumors necessitates invasive procedures that might limit patient compliance. The ability to monitor the disease progression over time could facilitate appropriate modification to a patient's therapy, potentially improving their prognosis and quality of life. The important aspect of the ability to prognose the future progression of the
'Universal' blood test for earlier diagnosis of cancer moves closer to market [SEP] Cancer prevention // sugar molecules attached made by their tumors, suggesting that antitumor antibodies in the blood may be a source of sensitive biomarkers for cancer detection 2010 - Initial Results of the Lung Cancer Screening Trial (NLST) Released. Initial results show that screening with low-dose helical computerized tomography (CT) reduced lung cancer deaths by about 20% among current and former heavy smokers 2011 - Lung Results from the Prostate, Lung, Colorectal and Ovarian (PLCO) Cancer Screening Trial Released 2011 - Ovarian Results from the Prostate, Lung, Colorectal and Ovarian (PLCO) Cancer Screening Trial Released. PLCO results show that screening for ovarian cancer
Oxford professor of Islamic studies Tariq Ramadan said "we are here to colonize the U.S. and Canada" with Sharia law. [SEP] Faisal Kutty // recommended that the Ontario government permit the adoption of sharia tribunals for Muslims who wished to have family arbitration disputes settled in that manner. Kutty commented on this report on behalf of various Muslim groups. Kutty wrote that the purported banning of faith-based arbitration was a delayed opportunity for the indigenization of Islamic law in the North American context. Some critics claim that he is an Islamist supporter and terrorist sympathizer. He has acted for or represented many individuals and groups accused of terror connections. IRFAN-Canada, an organization that had its charitable status revoked was represented by another lawyer associated
Oxford professor of Islamic studies Tariq Ramadan said "we are here to colonize the U.S. and Canada" with Sharia law. [SEP] Tariq Ramadan // been arbitrary and myopic. But I am encouraged by the unwavering support I have received from ordinary Americans, civic groups and particularly from scholars, academic organizations, and the ACLU. I am heartened by the emerging debate in the U.S. about what has been happening to our countries and ideals in the past six years. And I am hopeful that eventually I will be allowed to enter the country so that I may contribute to the debate and be enriched by dialogue." On 17 July 2009, the US federal appeals court reversed the ruling of the lower district court. The three-judge
Oxford professor of Islamic studies Tariq Ramadan said "we are here to colonize the U.S. and Canada" with Sharia law. [SEP] Sharia // federal ban on sharia law. The issue of "liberty versus Sharia" was called a "momentous civilisational debate" by right-wing pundit Diana West. In 2008 in Britain, the future Prime Minister (David Cameron) declared his opposition to "any expansion of Sharia law in the UK." In Germany, in 2014, the Interior Minister (Thomas de Maizière) told a newspaper ("Bild"), "Sharia law is not tolerated on German soil." Some countries and jurisdictions have explicit bans on sharia law. In Canada, for example, sharia law has been explicitly banned in Quebec by a 2005 unanimous vote of the National Assembly, while the province
Oxford professor of Islamic studies Tariq Ramadan said "we are here to colonize the U.S. and Canada" with Sharia law. [SEP] Tariq Ramadan // the American Association of University Professors and the PEN American Center – three groups who had planned on meeting with Ramadan in the US – for revoking Ramadan's visa under the "ideological exclusion provision". The ACLU and NYCLU argued that the ideological exclusion provision was in violation of the First Amendment and Fifth Amendment rights of those three groups and that the government's actions violated the Administrative Procedures Act. After two months had passed without a decision being made, the plaintiffs filed a motion for a preliminary injunction. Pursuant to the injunction, the United States District Court for the Southern
Oxford professor of Islamic studies Tariq Ramadan said "we are here to colonize the U.S. and Canada" with Sharia law. [SEP] Political positions of Newt Gingrich // he stated: "The fight against sharia and the maddrassas and mosques which teach hatred and fanaticism is the heart of the enemy movement from which the terrorists spring forth. ... One of the things I am going to suggest today is a federal law which says no court anywhere in the United States under any circumstance is allowed to consider Sharia as a replacement for American law." During a town hall meeting in South Carolina, after being asked whether he would endorse a Muslim for president, he replied that he would only do so if the person denounced sharia law
Oxford professor of Islamic studies Tariq Ramadan said "we are here to colonize the U.S. and Canada" with Sharia law. [SEP] Tariq Ramadan // ACLU National Security Project and lead attorney in the case, stated: "The government's shifting positions only underscore why meaningful judicial review – the kind of oversight that the district court failed to provide – is so important. In Professor Ramadan's case and many others, the government is using immigration laws to stigmatize and exclude its critics and to censor and control the ideas that Americans can hear. Censorship of this kind is completely inconsistent with the most basic principles of an open society." Ramadan himself remarked: "The U.S. government's actions in my case seem, at least to me, to have
Oxford professor of Islamic studies Tariq Ramadan said "we are here to colonize the U.S. and Canada" with Sharia law. [SEP] Application of Islamic law by country // against it in 2005 by the National Assembly of Quebec, while the province of Ontario allows family law disputes to be arbitrated only under Ontario law. The country has a common law system. The country has a civil law system. In the United States, various states have outlawed sharia, or passed some form of ballot measure which "prohibits the states courts from considering foreign, international or religious law." these include Alabama, Arizona, Kansas, Louisiana, North Carolina, South Dakota and Tennessee. Criminal law in Afghanistan continues to be governed in large part by Islamic law. The Criminal Law of September 1976
Oxford professor of Islamic studies Tariq Ramadan said "we are here to colonize the U.S. and Canada" with Sharia law. [SEP] Tariq Ramadan // held a lectureship in Religion and Philosophy at the University of Fribourg from 1996 to 2003, something the University publicly denied in 2018. He was appointed a professor at the University of Notre Dame in the United States in 2004 before his visa had been revoked by the Bush administration because of the Patriot Act. In October 2005 he began teaching at St Antony's College, Oxford on a visiting fellowship. In 2005 he was a senior research fellow at the Lokahi Foundation. In 2007 he successfully applied for the professorship in Islamic studies at the University of Leiden. This led
Oxford professor of Islamic studies Tariq Ramadan said "we are here to colonize the U.S. and Canada" with Sharia law. [SEP] Faisal Kutty // vice-chair of the Canadian Council on American Islamic Relations and general counsel for the Canadian Muslim Civil Liberties Association. At the one-hour meeting at the Royal York Hotel, they were told that "Canada is neither a breeding ground nor a safe haven for terrorists." Kutty told Robert Benzie of the Toronto Star that "we basically said you have to look at the root causes of these things." He added that you can have security concerns,"but if you don't (act) within the confines of the rule of law and due process and within a democratic model, you're going to breed more
Oxford professor of Islamic studies Tariq Ramadan said "we are here to colonize the U.S. and Canada" with Sharia law. [SEP] Ban on sharia law // of shariah law. During the lead-up to Newt Gingrich's presidential campaign 2012, he described sharia law as a "mortal threat" and called for its ban throughout America. Sarah Palin has been quoted as saying that if shariah law “were to be adopted, allowed to govern in our country, it will be the downfall of America.” At a press conference in the U.S. Capitol, some Republican members of the United States Congress endorsed a new memorandum, based on a Center for Security Policy (CSP) report, "Shariah: The Threat to America". A 2013 report by the Brennan Center for Justice warned that
In 2019, a U.S. District Court judge ruled that girls in an Illinois school district "must shower with boys" and had no right to privacy. [SEP] Boyertown Area School District // first violated without any notice or consent in a place traditionally--and by state statute--reserved for persons of one biological sex. Attorney Randall Wenger of the Independence Law Center said, "Students shouldn’t be forced into situations where their personal privacy is violated. We, in society, have long recognized that we have a right to our bodily privacy when it comes to a person of the opposite sex." "After the male student was exposed involuntarily to an undressed female student while he was changing in his school’s locker room in October," attorney Kellie Fiedorek of The Alliance Defending Freedom stated, "Our laws
In 2019, a U.S. District Court judge ruled that girls in an Illinois school district "must shower with boys" and had no right to privacy. [SEP] Township High School District 211 transgender student incidents // misrepresented the accommodations the district had made for her. In January 2018, PFP and the Thomas More Society successfully intervened in Maday's lawsuits as defendants. Maday sought an injunction which would temporarily remove the requirement that she change in private in the girls' locker room. On January 25, 2018, Judge Thomas Allen denied her request because the Illinois Human Rights Act required only "access" to school facilities, instead of "full and equal access" which was removed from the final draft of the bill. Maday appealed the ruling of Judge Allen. Although Maday graduated in May 2018, the appellate court took
In 2019, a U.S. District Court judge ruled that girls in an Illinois school district "must shower with boys" and had no right to privacy. [SEP] Township High School District 211 transgender student incidents // 2013, a student from William Fremd High School, a part of District 211, filed a complaint under Title IX with the Office for Civil Rights. The student, named only as "Student A," was born male but identified as female at an early age. From the filing of the complaint onward, she was represented by the ACLU of Illinois. Student A's complaint alleged that the district had discriminated against her because she was denied use of the girls' locker room and was required to dress in a separate, private bathroom. D211 said that in making their decision to deny access, they
In 2019, a U.S. District Court judge ruled that girls in an Illinois school district "must shower with boys" and had no right to privacy. [SEP] Bathroom bill // guidance stated that for the purpose of Title IX, the Department of Justice and the Department of Education treat a student's gender identity as their sex. The guidance was followed by a formal "Dear Colleague" letter on May 13. In October 2016, the U.S. Supreme Court agreed to take up the case of Gavin Grimm, a transgender male student who was barred from using the boys' bathrooms at his high school in Gloucester County, Virginia. The U.S. Court of Appeals for the 4th Circuit had previously ruled that Grimm could use these restrooms, but the Supreme Court stayed that decision
In 2019, a U.S. District Court judge ruled that girls in an Illinois school district "must shower with boys" and had no right to privacy. [SEP] Gender identity under Title IX // In September 2016, a federal district court decided that the school district must let him use the boys' restroom. The school district appealed, and a three-judge panel of the Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals unanimously ruled in the student's favor, finding that "a policy that requires an individual to use a bathroom that does not conform with his or her gender identity punishes that individual for his or her gender non‐conformance, which in turn violates Title IX." On March 23, 2016, North Carolina enacted the Public Facilities Privacy & Security Act. Among the provisions of the Act is a requirement
In 2019, a U.S. District Court judge ruled that girls in an Illinois school district "must shower with boys" and had no right to privacy. [SEP] Township High School District 211 transgender student incidents // that discrimination based on transgender status or gender identity is sex discrimination, and is therefore prohibited under Title IX. The letter spoke specifically on transgender student use of bathrooms and locker rooms, citing Student A's case resolution: On May 4, 2016, a group of D211 students and parents sued the district, Department of Education, and Department of Justice in federal court, alleging that allowing Student A access to the girls' locker room was a violation of their civil rights. The group, Parents for Privacy (sometimes called D211 Parents for Privacy, Students and Parents for Privacy, or simply PFP), said that
In 2019, a U.S. District Court judge ruled that girls in an Illinois school district "must shower with boys" and had no right to privacy. [SEP] Gender identity under Title IX // inconceivable [that courts] would decide that transgender bias is sex discrimination under Title IX, but not under Title VII." On May 22, U.S. District Judge Arenda Wright Allen of the U.S. District Court of the Eastern District of Virginia denied the Gloucester County School Board's motion to dismiss the case and ruled that Grimm had a valid claim. In July 2016, Ash Whitaker, a transgender boy, filed suit against the Kenosha Unified School District in Wisconsin because the district denied him access to the boys' restrooms in violation of Title IX and the Equal Protection Clause of the U.S. Constitution.
In 2019, a U.S. District Court judge ruled that girls in an Illinois school district "must shower with boys" and had no right to privacy. [SEP] Transgender legal history in the United States // transgender male student Gavin Grimm, which marked the first ruling by an appeals court to find that transgender students are protected under federal laws that ban sex-based discrimination. The ruling came on a challenge to the Gloucester County School Board's policy of making transgender students use alternative restroom facilities. However, later in 2016 the U.S. Supreme Court agreed to put that ruling on hold. Then in 2017 the U.S. Supreme Court vacated the decision of the 4th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals and refused to hear the case. Later in 2017, it was announced that the 4th Circuit would send
In 2019, a U.S. District Court judge ruled that girls in an Illinois school district "must shower with boys" and had no right to privacy. [SEP] Township High School District 211 // College of DuPage, as well as with the University of Illinois. High School District 211 was named among the elite school districts in Illinois by Expansion Management magazine, a publication for corporate re-location, in 1999, 2001, 2003, 2005, and again in 2007. On November 2, 2015, the New York Times reported that the Federal Government determined that District 211 violated anti-discrimination laws because "it did not allow a transgender student who identifies as a girl and participates on a girls’ sports team to change and shower in the girls’ locker room without restrictions." The New York Times added that the
In 2019, a U.S. District Court judge ruled that girls in an Illinois school district "must shower with boys" and had no right to privacy. [SEP] Township High School District 211 transgender student incidents // the federal government violated the students' privacy rights as well as the parents' constitutional rights to "instill moral standards and values in their children." The Thomas More Society and the Alliance Defending Freedom supported PFP in the suit. On May 26, 2016, Student A, two younger transgender students (called Students B and C), and the Illinois Safe Schools Alliance filed a motion to intervene in the PFP lawsuit. Student B and Student C both attended feeder schools to D211. All three students were represented by the ACLU. In June, Judge Jorge Alonso granted the motion. The district did not oppose.
New drug ‘may turn back the clock on heart disease’ [SEP] Rosiglitazone // after the story first broke in 2007, dropping from $2.5 billion in 2006 to less than $408 million in 2009 in the US. In response to the rise in risk of heart attacks, the Indian government ordered GSK to suspend its research study, called TIDE, in 2010. The FDA also halted the TIDE study in the United States. Three doctors' groups, the Endocrine Society, the American Diabetes Association and the American Association of Clinical Endocrinologists, urged patients to continue to take the drug as it would be much worse to stop all treatment, despite any associated risk, but that patients
New drug ‘may turn back the clock on heart disease’ [SEP] Tamas Bartfai // for 'heartburn', as a consultant to Roche, the catechol-O-methyltransferase inhibitor (Tasmar-tolcapone) used in Parkinson's Disease, the first benzodiazepine–antagonist (flunitrazepam) for treatment of benzodiazepine overdoses, and as a consultant to Novartis the sphingosine 1-phosphate agonist gilenya-fingolimod as the first oral multiple sclerosis drug. He has also worked on four current drug candidates that as of 2015, are in phase 2 and 3 clinical trials. One of the most promising ones is the amyloid Αβ antibody that the Banner Alzheimer's Institute, Roche and the U.S. government are testing in Colombia for prevention of Alzheimer's disease in a large cohort with a familial
New drug ‘may turn back the clock on heart disease’ [SEP] Peter Davies (scientist) // currently approved drugs for Alzheimer’s disease: Aricept, Exelon, and Razodyne. Davies is interested in the pathway of Alzheimer’s disease and has said that the disease may be a process of cell cycle division gone wild. He has evidence that the switch that drives the cell cycle of neurons, which is a one-time event when the neuron is born, is somehow tripped and reactivated late in life. He and his team designed an experiment to turn on the cell cycle in laboratory models. They put a viral oncogene into differentiated neurons and watched as pathological events unfolded. Davies and his collaborators
New drug ‘may turn back the clock on heart disease’ [SEP] Giovanna Mallucci // over-activated a natural defence mechanism, ‘switching off’ the vital production of new proteins in brain cells. Switching protein production back on with an experimental drug halted neurodegeneration but the drug tested was toxic to the pancreas and not suitable for testing in humans. But in a study published in Brain, the researchers revealed how they identified a number of suitable candidates after testing 1,040 compounds from the National Institute for Neurological Disorders and Stroke, initially in worms, which have a functioning nervous system. Testing on mice with prion disease and a form of familial tauopathy or frontotemporal dementia (FTD) identified
New drug ‘may turn back the clock on heart disease’ [SEP] Catecholaminergic polymorphic ventricular tachycardia // the heart, reducing the chance of abnormal heart rhythms developing. Of all the beta blockers, Nadolol may be the most effective for treating CPVT. This drug lowers the heart rate to a greater extent than other beta blockers and only needs to be taken once daily, reducing the chance of missed doses. Nadolol may be difficult to obtain and is not available in all countries, and an alternative beta blocker suitable for use in CPVT is Propranolol. Flecainide is a class 1c antiarrhythmic drug that is recommended for those with CPVT who experience abnormal heart rhythms despite taking a beta
New drug ‘may turn back the clock on heart disease’ [SEP] Regeneron // will help reduce cholesterol up to 72% more than the leading brands. The new drug targets the PCSK9 gene. In July 2015, the company announced a new global collaboration with Sanofi to discover, develop, and commercialise new immuno-oncology drugs, which could generate more than $2 billion for Regeneron, with $640 million upfront, $750 million for proof of concept data and $650 million from the development of REGN2810. REGN2810 was later named cemiplimab. ARCALYST (rilonacept) for specific, rare autoinflammatory conditions. Approved by the FDA in February 2008. EYLEA (aflibercept injection) Approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in November
New drug ‘may turn back the clock on heart disease’ [SEP] Rosiglitazone // of the heart risks of its drug, and that the FDA knew of the dangers months before it informed the public." It reports, "the FDA is investigating whether GSK broke the law by failing to fully inform the agency of Avandia's heart risks", according to deputy FDA commissioner Dr. Joshua Sharfstein. GSK threatened academics who reported adverse research results, and received multiple warning letters from the FDA for deceptive marketing and failure to report clinical data. The maker of the drug, GlaxoSmithKline, has dealt with serious backlash against the company for the drug's controversy. Sales on the drug dropped significantly
New drug ‘may turn back the clock on heart disease’ [SEP] Ezetimibe/simvastatin // small and unique patient population, 720 patients in an Amsterdam hospital with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia. Merck and Schering Plough have reported that they have three trials underway to focus on outcomes, measuring the drug's effect on heart attacks and strokes in patients. These results were presented in full at the American College of Cardiology meeting on 30 March 2008, two years after the last patient completed the study. The House Committee on Energy and Commerce conducted an inquiry into the delayed disclosure of the study data. In the United States, Vytorin featured a television advertising campaign showing a series of
New drug ‘may turn back the clock on heart disease’ [SEP] Rosiglitazone // Medicines Control Council of South Africa on July 5, 2011 stated that it had resolved on July 3, 2011 to withdraw all rosiglitazone-containing medicines from the South African market due to safety risks. It disallowed all new prescriptions of Avandia. Following the reports in 2007 that Avandia can significantly increase the risk of heart attacks, the drug has been controversial. A 2010 article in "Time" uses the Avandia case as evidence of a broken FDA regulatory system that "may prove criminal as well as fatal". It details the disclosure failures, adding, "Congressional reports revealed that GSK sat on early evidence
New drug ‘may turn back the clock on heart disease’ [SEP] James Black (pharmacologist) // beta adrenergic receptor antagonist that revolutionised the medical management of angina pectoris, is considered to be one of the most important contributions to clinical medicine and pharmacology of the 20th century. Propranolol has been described as the greatest breakthrough in heart disease treatments since the 18th century discovery of digitalis and has benefited millions of people. Black's method of research, his discoveries about adrenergic pharmacology, and his clarification of the mechanisms of cardiac action are all strengths of his work. He was greatly involved in the synthesis of cimetidine, at the time a revolutionary drug for the treatment and prevention
Illegal immigrants were arrested for starting the October 2017 California wildfires. [SEP] October 2007 California wildfires // When fleeing the fires, some were arrested, while others were turned away from shelters due to lack of adequate identification. Some Mexican firefighters expressed concern about their countrymen, while others felt the migrant workers were aware of the risks they were taking. <includeonly>coyotehowls</includeonly> Only a few cases of looting were documented. Six people were arrested for stealing supplies from Qualcomm stadium, another was arrested for theft after being found in possession of stolen goods in the Jamul fire area, and two were arrested near the Tecate border crossing. The concentration of particulate matter 10 micrometers and smaller (designated PM10) reached
Illegal immigrants were arrested for starting the October 2017 California wildfires. [SEP] Jesusita Fire // From May 5 to May 9, 2009, evacuees were also sheltered at San Marcos High School in Goleta. Much of the Santa Barbara Botanic Garden was destroyed on the night of May 7. On December 11, 2009, charges were filed against Craig Ilenstine and Dana Larsen citing them for operating a weed whacker without a hot work permit. As the DA could not prove a connection between the trail work and starting the fire, the two were not charged with the felony of starting the fire, but instead with the misdemeanor of not obtaining the proper permit for hot work.
Illegal immigrants were arrested for starting the October 2017 California wildfires. [SEP] October 2017 Northern California wildfires // October 2017 Northern California wildfires The October 2017 Northern California wildfires, also known as the Northern California firestorm, were a series of 250 wildfires that started burning across the state of California, United States, beginning in early October. Twenty-one became major fires that burned at least . The wildfires broke out throughout Napa, Lake, Sonoma, Mendocino, Butte, and Solano Counties during severe fire weather conditions, effectively leading to a major red flag warning for much of the Northern California area. Pacific Gas and Electric reported that red flag conditions existed in 44 of the 49 counties in its service area.
Illegal immigrants were arrested for starting the October 2017 California wildfires. [SEP] October 2017 Northern California wildfires // victims were elderly, though the ages of the victims ranged from 14 to 100 years old. On October 9, California governor Jerry Brown declared a state of emergency for the counties of Napa, Sonoma, Yuba, Butte, Lake, Mendocino, Nevada, and Orange, and sent a letter to the White House requesting a major disaster declaration. President Donald Trump approved the disaster declaration on October 10. That evening, Gov. Brown issued an emergency declaration for Solano County. Surveying the region, representative Mike Thompson of California's 5th congressional district said, "I fully expect this will be the worst fire disaster in California history."
Illegal immigrants were arrested for starting the October 2017 California wildfires. [SEP] December 2017 Southern California wildfires // Eric Garcetti declared a state of emergency for the city on December 6. U.S. President Donald Trump declared a state of emergency for the state of California on December 8. One civilian death was recorded, a 70-year-old woman, Virginia Pesola, from Santa Paula. In addition, Cory Iverson, a firefighter, perished while fighting the Thomas Fire. "This is a tragic reminder of the dangerous work that our firefighters do every day," said Los Padres National Forest Supervisor Teresa Benson in a release. "The Thomas Fire has many unprecedented conditions and complexities that challenge the already demanding job of fire suppression." The
Illegal immigrants were arrested for starting the October 2017 California wildfires. [SEP] Breitbart News // 2017, Breitbart News published a false story claiming that an undocumented immigrant was arrested in connection with the October 2017 Northern California wildfires. Sonoma County's sheriff department responded to Breitbart's reporting, "This is completely false, bad, wrong information that Breitbart started and is being put out into the public." Breitbart News Breitbart News Network (known commonly as Breitbart News, Breitbart or Breitbart.com) is a far-right syndicated American news, opinion and commentary website founded in mid-2007 by conservative commentator Andrew Breitbart, who conceived it as "the "Huffington Post" of the right." Its journalists are widely considered to be ideologically driven, and
Illegal immigrants were arrested for starting the October 2017 California wildfires. [SEP] October 2007 California wildfires // miles north of Tecate, Mexico. On October 23, the fire approached eastern Chula Vista. Many communities were evacuated, with evacuation centers set up at a nearby high school and community center. Thomas James Varshock, 52, of Potrero, died on his property during the Harris Fire on Sunday. His teenage son suffered burn injuries, along with four firefighters of the California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection, who had attempted to rescue them. The fire may also have caused the deaths of four migrant workers near the U.S.–Mexico border. An estimated 1,210 firefighters battled this fire. The Harris Fire also burned
Illegal immigrants were arrested for starting the October 2017 California wildfires. [SEP] 2016 California wildfires // Fire, and charged him with 17 counts of arson. Below is a list of all fires that exceeded during the 2016 California wildfire season, as well as the fires that caused significant damage. The information is taken from CAL FIRE's list of large fires, and other sources where indicated. On Thursday, May 5, 2016, shortly before 3 P.M. PDT, a small brush fire ignited off the 15000 block of Dove Creek Road, in a creek bed, in 4S Ranch, San Diego County. As the fire began spreading eastward, students and staff at the nearby Oak Valley Middle School were ordered
Illegal immigrants were arrested for starting the October 2017 California wildfires. [SEP] October 2007 California wildfires // of wildfires had begun to ignite. The October 2007 wildfires caused over $2 billion (2007 USD) in insured property damages. This is a list of the named fires that ignited as part of the October 2007 California firestorm, beginning in late October 2007. Most of these wildfires were managed by Cal Fire at some point in time. Of all the wildfires, the two largest ones were located in San Diego County. The largest, the Witch Creek Fire, burned areas in north and northeast San Diego County. The second largest, the Harris Fire, burned northwest from the U.S–Mexico border towards San
Illegal immigrants were arrested for starting the October 2017 California wildfires. [SEP] 2007 California wildfires // of the risks they were taking. <includeonly>coyotehowls</includeonly> Only a few cases of looting were documented. Six people were arrested for stealing supplies from Qualcomm stadium, another was arrested for theft after being found in possession of stolen goods in the Jamul fire area, and two were arrested near the Tecate border crossing. The concentration of particulate matter 10 micrometers and smaller (designated PM10) reached unhealthy levels as a result of the fires. PM10 particles are small enough to enter deep into the lungs, and possibly the bloodstream. San Diego city attorney Michael Aguirre, citing concerns over weather conditions and air
Donald Trump violated Palm Beach ordinances by putting up an outsized U.S. flag and pole, then donating the money he was fined to veterans' organizations. [SEP] Mar-a-Lago // dropped his lawsuit over the flag, and in exchange the town waived its fines. As part of a court-ordered mediation, Trump was allowed to file for a permit and keep a pole that was both shorter than the original pole and located on a different spot on his lawn. The agreement also required him to donate $100,000 to veterans’ charities, as well as resulted in a change to town ordinances allowing out-of-town enrollees in club membership. In December 1997, Trump filed a lawsuit in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Florida. In his suit Trump accused
Donald Trump violated Palm Beach ordinances by putting up an outsized U.S. flag and pole, then donating the money he was fined to veterans' organizations. [SEP] Legal affairs of Donald Trump // Beach began fining Trump $250 per day for ordinance violations related to his erection of an flagpole flying a American flag on his property. Trump sued the town for $25 million, saying that they abridged his free speech, also disputing an ordinance that local businesses be "town-serving". The two parties settled as part of a court-ordered mediation, in which Trump was required to donate $100,000 to veterans' charities. At the same time, the town ordinance was modified allowing Trump to enroll out-of-town members in his Mar-a-Lago social club. After the 2008 housing-market collapse, Deutsche Bank attempted to collect $40 million
Donald Trump violated Palm Beach ordinances by putting up an outsized U.S. flag and pole, then donating the money he was fined to veterans' organizations. [SEP] Mar-a-Lago // for health code violations. In January 2017, Florida inspectors noted 15 infraction that included unsafe seafood, insufficiently refrigerated meats, rusty shelving, and cooks without hairnets. Since 2013, it has faced 51 health code violations. On October 3, 2006, Trump raised a American flag on an flagpole at Mar-a-Lago. Town zoning officials asked Trump to adhere to town zoning codes that limit flagpoles to a height of . This dispute led the town council of Palm Beach to charge Trump $1,250 for every day that the flag stayed up. Trump filed a lawsuit against the Town of Palm Beach. Trump eventually
Donald Trump violated Palm Beach ordinances by putting up an outsized U.S. flag and pole, then donating the money he was fined to veterans' organizations. [SEP] Donald J. Trump Foundation // violated the height restrictions but were not similarly fined. It also alleged that a shorter flagpole "would fail to appropriately express the magnitude of Donald J. Trump's…patriotism." Trump eventually reached a legal settlement with Palm Beach after, according to the "Sun Sentinel," "secret, court-ordered negotiations." Settlement documents show that Trump, in return for discharging the club's obligations to Palm Beach, had agreed to personally donate $100,000 to Fischer House, a charity benefitting veterans and military families. However, Trump then made the grant using foundation money, not his own. Trump's foundation paid $158,000 to the Martin B. Greenberg Foundation as a
Donald Trump violated Palm Beach ordinances by putting up an outsized U.S. flag and pole, then donating the money he was fined to veterans' organizations. [SEP] Donald J. Trump Foundation // 2006 legal dispute between the Town of Palm Beach, Florida, and Trump's Mar-a-Lago country club. The town said that the club's flagpole violated town height limit rules and levied a daily accruing fine against the club. The club's flagpole was 80 feet tall, 38 feet above limits imposed by the town. Palm Beach began fining Trump $1,250 per day for the violation. Trump countersued Palm Beach for $25 million on US constitutional grounds for restricting his 1st amendment rights of free speech and his 14th amendment rights of equal protection. The suit alleged that at least 20 other properties had
Donald Trump violated Palm Beach ordinances by putting up an outsized U.S. flag and pole, then donating the money he was fined to veterans' organizations. [SEP] Mar-a-Lago // the town of discriminating against Mar-a-Lago for allowing black and Jewish members, groups not typically welcome in the area's other clubs. According to "Vanity Fair", "Trump and his attorney had already implied that he and his club had been discriminated against because many of its members were Jewish, and, worse, that the council members who had placed the conditions on him had not placed those restrictions on their own clubs." Trump has repeatedly filed lawsuits against Palm Beach County over aircraft going to and from Palm Beach International Airport (PBI) allegedly affecting Mar-a-Lago. Trump first filed such a lawsuit in
Donald Trump violated Palm Beach ordinances by putting up an outsized U.S. flag and pole, then donating the money he was fined to veterans' organizations. [SEP] Kappa Alpha Order // in New Orleans, Louisiana, constructed a sand-bag wall around its house that contained spray-painted slogans in reference to Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump's proposal to build a wall between the U.S. and Mexico. The chapter said that the wall had been built for an annual "capture the flag" game and that the pro-Trump slogans were satirical and not in support of the candidate or his message. Some students protested that the wall was offensive and anti-immigrant or anti-Latino. The wall was later forcefully dismantled, allegedly in part by members of the Tulane football team. In 1980, several students at Vanderbilt
Donald Trump violated Palm Beach ordinances by putting up an outsized U.S. flag and pole, then donating the money he was fined to veterans' organizations. [SEP] Political positions of Donald Trump // Bill. In January 2016, Trump hosted a fundraising rally for veterans (skipping a televised Republican debate to do so). Weeks later, after the "Wall Street Journal" inquired with the Trump campaign when veterans' groups would receive their checks, the funds began to be disbursed. In April, the "Journal" reported that the funds had yet to be fully distributed. In May, NPR confirmed directly with 30 recipient charities that they had received their funds, "accounting for $4.27 million of the $5.6 million total," while the remaining 11 charities did not answer the question. in February 2018, the Trump administration initiated a
Donald Trump violated Palm Beach ordinances by putting up an outsized U.S. flag and pole, then donating the money he was fined to veterans' organizations. [SEP] Donald Trump 2016 presidential campaign // "The Washington Post" reported in September 2016 that foundation was fined $2,500 by the IRS for using the funds to make a political contribution to Bondi's PAC. Video and accompanying audio were released by "The Washington Post" on October 7, 2016, in which Trump referred obscenely to women in a 2005 conversation with Billy Bush while they were preparing to film an episode of "Access Hollywood". Trump said that he could grab women "by the pussy" and get away with it, because he is a "star". The audio was met with a reaction of disbelief and disgust from the media.
Donald Trump violated Palm Beach ordinances by putting up an outsized U.S. flag and pole, then donating the money he was fined to veterans' organizations. [SEP] Jupiter, Florida // around here, because they're the same as the pole. And my pole is a portable pole. And the state government says I can do it." George Andres won and was allowed to display his flag in his front lawn with the use of a flagpole. During the last week of July 2006, President George W. Bush signed the Freedom to Display the American Flag Act of 2005, allowing residents to display the flag on their residential property despite any homeowners association rules. In 2014, American Television Show "American Horror Story" premiered its fourth season titled "'"' set in 1950s Jupiter,
Photograph shows a KKK member being treated by an all-black emergency room staff. [SEP] Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union // and the end of racist treatment by white hospital workers. White doctors and nurses openly referred to black hospital workers as 'monkey grunts' and 'niggers,' and hospital administrators paid white staff more for the same jobs done by blacks. Working conditions at the hospital were described by organizers as similar to the 'plantation overseer-slave relationship.' In the late winter of 1968, the hospital's nonprofessional workers, led by Naomi White, contacted the Southern Christian Leadership Council (SCLC) for assistance. The SCLC asked Local 1199 - which had extensive links with the civil rights movement - to help the workers form a
Photograph shows a KKK member being treated by an all-black emergency room staff. [SEP] Gary Thomas Rowe // life-threatening injuries either from the beatings done by the Ku Klux Klan, or from prolonged exposure to the smoke and fumes from the destroyed bus, and were sent to Anniston Memorial Hospital for immediate attention. When an ambulance arrived, some of the black Freedom Riders were refused a ride to the hospital by the driver until several white Freedom Riders who were injured, got off the bus and only came if their fellow Riders who were black could be allowed to ride. When the injured Freedom Riders arrived at the hospital there was no doctor present, only nurses to provide
Photograph shows a KKK member being treated by an all-black emergency room staff. [SEP] Union Correctional Institution // significant, however, after a review of public records and court files revealed over 100 black agency employees were involved in lawsuits alleging rampant racism and discrimination in the prison system. Perhaps worst of these allegations, a black recreation manager once arrived at his desk to find across his bulletin board the letters "KKK". The report also included the story of a 1993 incident; inmates on death-row were exposed to a man wearing a KKK-style white sheet walking by their cells. Union Correctional Institution The Union Correctional Institution, formerly referred to as Florida State Prison, Raiford Prison and State Prison Farm
Photograph shows a KKK member being treated by an all-black emergency room staff. [SEP] Akinwale Arobieke // a visit to GMP headquarters on 9 December 2013, a staff member "came from behind the counter and confronted him in a threatening manner". The report said CCTV was viewed and "the conduct of the counter clerk was overly confrontational and likely to cause offence". The staff member "has been formally advised about his conduct". In 2016, police began investigating an allegation against the BBC of incitement to racial hatred after Arobieke complained that the 2016 documentary, "The Man Who Squeezes Muscles: Searching for Purple Aki," was racist. In the film he is referred to as a “big black” man
Photograph shows a KKK member being treated by an all-black emergency room staff. [SEP] The Problem We All Live With // is written the racial slur "nigger" and the letters "KKK"; a smashed and splattered tomato thrown against the wall is also visible. The white protesters are not visible, as the viewer is looking at the scene from their point of view. The painting is oil on canvas and measures high by wide. The painting was originally published as a centerfold in the January 14, 1964 issue of "Look". Rockwell had ended his contract with the "Saturday Evening Post" the previous year due to frustration with the limits the magazine placed on his expression of political themes, and "Look" offered him
Photograph shows a KKK member being treated by an all-black emergency room staff. [SEP] Paramedics incident in Oslo 2007 // considered the paramedics to be disrespectful towards Ali Farah owing to his ethnicity, and therefore also racists. The case was widely covered in Norwegian media and a heated national debate ensued. Most of the media articles focused on the failure of the paramedics to properly deal with the victim, and hence portrayed this incident as one of racial discrimination. The photograph that the media used to strengthen this claim showed an injured victim lying on the ground bleeding heavily from the nose. This picture clearly contradicted the paramedic's version of events in which they claimed that Farah was standing up
Photograph shows a KKK member being treated by an all-black emergency room staff. [SEP] Gary Franks // burned down by the Ku Klux Klan, and that after he sued a hospital following the death of his sister, the "hospital has taken it upon itself to retaliate in this manner, working through one or two newspapers to spread these stories that are just so fictitious and so libelous, and so hateful". In 2015, Franks was featured in the Wall Street Journal piece ""Making the Republican Case for Black Support."" Franks says, "Yes, you’ve got to show up but it’s more than that. You’ve got to explain that participating in only one half of a [two-party] system doesn’t work.
Photograph shows a KKK member being treated by an all-black emergency room staff. [SEP] Black Skinhead // The user's cursor changes to that of a black hand giving the middle finger when interacting with the video. Pitchfork Media noted that apart from interactivity, the video itself is identical to the version that was leaked ahead of release. The video opens with three figures wearing black conical hoods, reminiscent of those worn by the Ku Klux Klan; their hoods form a black border that envelops most of the screen, while the silhouettes of the outlying cones stay on each end. The primary action of the video takes place in the middle portion of the screen, which is occupied
Photograph shows a KKK member being treated by an all-black emergency room staff. [SEP] The Modern Samson // draft riots of New York City, the Ku Klux Klan, and the Reconstruction race riots in Memphis and New Orleans; wearing another Ku Klux Klan breastplate, former Confederate Rear Admiral Raphael Semmes; and 23rd New York Governor John Hoffman with a generic Catholic Irish-American under his arm. On the far right, a statue of President Andrew Johnson is likened to a "Moses" of the black Americans holding a tablet labeled "veto" to remind the audience of his recent Reconstruction legislation veto. Under the statue is a snake with horns similar to the hair of the depiction of Seymour, alluding to
Photograph shows a KKK member being treated by an all-black emergency room staff. [SEP] Dying While Black // Randall states that they are a direct result of slavery and the lack of health care that was provided from the time of slavery to the Jim Crow laws, the Affirmative Action time, and to the Racial Entrenchment time of the present. She points out the racial barriers to the access of health care, nursing homes, hospitals, physicians, and other professionals. In addition, she acknowledges a lack of minority health professionals and thus a shortage of minority input into the health care system. She insists that the health care system rid itself of intentional and inadvertent racism. The managed care
Edith Jones, who integrated southern medical schools, dies. [SEP] Edith Irby Jones // Edith Irby Jones Edith Irby Jones (born December 23, 1927) is an American physician who was the first African American to be accepted as a non-segregated student at the University of Arkansas Medical School and the first black student to attend racially mixed classes in the American South. She was the first African American to graduate from a southern medical school, first black intern in the state of Arkansas, and later first black intern at Baylor College of Medicine. Jones was the first woman president of the National Medical Association. She has been honored by many awards, including induction into
Edith Jones, who integrated southern medical schools, dies. [SEP] Edith Irby Jones // her service in 2015. Two international hospitals also are named in her honor: Dr. Edith Irby Jones Clinic in Vaudreuil, Haiti, which she helped found in 1991, and the Dr. Edith Irby Jones Emergency Clinic in Veracruz, Mexico. Edith Irby Jones Edith Irby Jones (born December 23, 1927) is an American physician who was the first African American to be accepted as a non-segregated student at the University of Arkansas Medical School and the first black student to attend racially mixed classes in the American South. She was the first African American to graduate from a southern medical school, first
Edith Jones, who integrated southern medical schools, dies. [SEP] Edith Irby Jones // Mary Holmes College (1989), Lindenwood College (1991), and Knoxville College (1992); Southeast Memorial Hospital renamed its ambulatory center in her honor (1998); recipient of the 2001 Oscar E. Edwards Memorial Award for Volunteerism and Community Service from the American College of Physicians; inducted into the University of Arkansas College of Medicine Hall of Fame (2004); US Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee nominated Jones as a Local Legend for the National Library of Medicine; induction into the inaugural class of women honored by the Arkansas Women's Hall of Fame in 2015; and received a commendation from the Texas House of Representatives for
Edith Jones, who integrated southern medical schools, dies. [SEP] Edith Irby Jones // trips with teams of workers from the NAACP to enroll members for the organization. She graduated with her BS from Knoxville College in 1948 and then completed a graduate course at Northwestern University in Evanston, Illinois to prepare for Medical School. Upon her graduation, Jones returned to Hot Springs and practiced medicine there for six years. When tension over the Little Rock Nine polarized Arkansas, and newspapers began to spotlight her again, in 1959, they moved to Houston, Texas, where she was accepted as the first black woman intern at the Baylor College of Medicine Affiliated Hospitals. The segregated staff
Edith Jones, who integrated southern medical schools, dies. [SEP] Edith Irby Jones // both the University of Arkansas College of Medicine Hall of Fame and the inaugural group of women inducted into the Arkansas Women's Hall of Fame. Edith Mae Irby was born on December 23, 1927, near Conway in Faulkner County, Arkansas, to Mattie (née Buice) and Robert Irby. At the age of eight, she lost her father, an older sister died at 12 years of age from typhoid fever, and Irby herself suffered from rheumatic fever as a child. These were motivating factors in her desire to help those who were underserved and impoverished and which propelled her toward a career
Edith Jones, who integrated southern medical schools, dies. [SEP] Edith Irby Jones // in medicine. Her mother relocated the family to Hot Springs, where Irby graduated from Langston Secondary School in 1944. After winning a scholarship, she studied chemistry, biology and physics at Knoxville College in Knoxville, Tennessee. Irby was well aware of the role she was playing and obligation she had for the black community. One of her teachers had helped her attain the scholarship, members of the local African American community collected change and the black press ran a campaign in the "Arkansas State-Press" which they donated to help with her tuition and living expenses. During her schooling, she secretly made
Edith Jones, who integrated southern medical schools, dies. [SEP] Edith Irby Jones // graduate courses at the West Virginia College of Medicine in 1965 and the Cook County Graduate School of Medicine in Chicago in 1966. In 1969, she was honored by the Houston Chapter of "Theta Sigma Phi" professional women with the Matrix Award for Medicine. In 1964, Jones was elected to serve as second vice president of the National Medical Association (NMA). In 1975, she became the first woman to chair the Council on Scientific Assembly for the NMA and then a decade later, she was elected as the first woman president of the organization. In 1986, "Edith Irby Jones Day"
Edith Jones, who integrated southern medical schools, dies. [SEP] Edith Irby Jones // was proclaimed by the City of Houston and in 1988 she was named Internist of the Year by the American Society of Internal Medicine. She was one of the founders of Mercy Hospital in Houston and one of the 12 physician owners and developers of the Park Plaza Hospital. Jones also supervises residents at the University of Texas Health Science Center and is active on the board of Planned Parenthood and the Houston School Board. Throughout her career, Jones has received many awards and honors for both her professional and volunteer work, including Honorary Doctorates from Missouri Valley College (1988),
Edith Jones, who integrated southern medical schools, dies. [SEP] Edith Irby Jones // at the hospital and limited patient rosters in Texas, caused her to finish her last three months of residency at Freedman's Hospital in Washington, D.C. In 1962, she founded her private practice in Houston's "third ward", part of the inner city of Houston, to help those who could not access care elsewhere. That same year, she became the chief of cardiology at St. Elizabeth’s Hospital in Houston. She also became an associate chief of medicine at Riverside General Hospital. In 1963, she accepted a post as a Clinical Assistant Professor at Baylor College of Medicine. Continuing her education, Jones completed
Edith Jones, who integrated southern medical schools, dies. [SEP] Sarah Garland Boyd Jones // practiced medicine in Richmond. With her husband, who also became a physician, she opened Richmond Hospital, which was also known as the Women's Central Hospital. Jones died May 11, 1905. Her sister, who also became a physician, married her brother-in-law, the widower, Miles Berkley Jones, The Sarah G. Jones Memorial Hospital, Medical College and Training School for Nurses was named in her honor in 1922. Sarah Garland Boyd Jones Sarah Garland Boyd Jones (née Sarah Garland Boyd; 1866 – May 11, 1905) was an African American physician from the U.S. state of Virginia. She was the first woman to receive
Alzheimer’s May Show Up in Saliva [SEP] Dementia // There is limited evidence that links poor oral health to cognitive decline. However, failure to perform tooth brushing and gingival inflammation can be used as dementia risk predictors. The link between Alzheimer's and gum disease is oral bacteria. In the oral cavity, a large number of bacterial species can be found including "P. gingivalis", "F. nucleatum", "P. intermedia", and "T. forsythia". Six oral trepomena spirochetes have also been examined in the brains of Alzheimer's patients. Spirochetes are neurotropic in nature, meaning they act to destroy nerve tissue and create inflammation. Inflammatory pathogens are an indicator of Alzheimer's disease and bacteria
Alzheimer’s May Show Up in Saliva [SEP] Dementia // related to gum disease have been found in the brains of Alzheimer's disease individuals. The bacteria invade nerve tissue in the brain, increasing the permeability of the blood-brain barrier and promoting the onset of Alzheimer's among the elderly population. It has also been found that individuals with a plethora of tooth plaque have a risk of cognitive decline. Poor oral hygiene can also have an adverse effect on speech and nutrition causing general and cognitive health decline. Herpes simplex virus (HSV) has been found in over 70% of the 50 and older population. HSV persists in the peripheral nervous system
Alzheimer’s May Show Up in Saliva [SEP] Avid Radiopharmaceuticals // with symptoms of Alzheimer's disease detected plaque in a PET scan in areas where it was typically found in the brain. Further tests found that the scans detected plaque in patients with Alzheimer's, didn't find it in those without the diagnosis and found intermediate amounts in patients with early signs of dementia. The tests found amyloid plaque in 20% of its test patients over age 60 that had been in the normal range, but had performed worse than a control group on tests of mental acuity. In order to confirm if the dye was accurate in detecting Alzheimer's, an advisory
Alzheimer’s May Show Up in Saliva [SEP] Alzheimer's disease // evidence that exposure to air pollution may be a contributing factor to the development of Alzheimer's disease. Gum disease: An infection with Spirochetes (a bacterium) in gum disease may cause dementia and may be involved in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. A fungal infection may also be a factor. One hypothesis posits that dysfunction of oligodendrocytes and their associated myelin during aging contributes to axon damage, which then causes amyloid production and tau hyper-phosphorylation as a side effect. Retrogenesis is a medical hypothesis about the development and progress of Alzheimer's disease proposed by Barry Reisberg in the 1980s. The hypothesis
Alzheimer’s May Show Up in Saliva [SEP] Saliva testing // early detection of pancreatic cancer.” In 2008 Emekli-Alturfan, et al., compared saliva from breast cancer patients to that from healthy individuals and observed, notably, that breast cancer patients’ samples contained dysplastic cells and reduced lipid peroxides. A 2000 study compared the salivary levels of a breast cancer marker (HER2/neu) in healthy women, women with benign breast lesions, and women with breast cancer. Researchers found that the salivary (as well as serum) level of this marker was significantly higher in women with breast cancer than in healthy women and women with benign breast lesions; they went on to state that the
Alzheimer’s May Show Up in Saliva [SEP] Oral manifestations of systemic disease // simplex, histoplasmosis, and reactive arthritis (formerly known as Reiter's Syndrome). Oral manifestations of systemic disease Oral manifestations of systematic disease are signs and symptoms of disease occurring elsewhere in the body detected in the oral cavity and oral secretions. High blood sugar can be detected by sampling saliva. Saliva sampling may be a non-invasive way to detect changes in the gut microbiome and changes in systemic disease. The association between the salivary microbiome and with Polycystic Ovarian Syndrome has been characterized. "[S]aliva microbiome profiles correlate with those in the stool, despite the fact that the bacterial communities in the two
Alzheimer’s May Show Up in Saliva [SEP] Dementia // most common symptoms of Alzheimer's disease are short-term memory loss and word-finding difficulties. People with Alzheimer's disease also have trouble with visual-spatial areas (for example, they may begin to get lost often), reasoning, judgment, and insight. Insight refers to whether or not the person realizes he/she has memory problems. Common early symptoms of Alzheimer's include repetition, getting lost, difficulties keeping track of bills, problems with cooking especially new or complicated meals, forgetting to take medication, and word-finding problems. The part of the brain most affected by Alzheimer's is the hippocampus. Other parts of the brain that show shrinking (atrophy) include
Alzheimer’s May Show Up in Saliva [SEP] Alzheimer's disease // to eat or how to drink from a glass) are affected to a lesser degree than new facts or memories. Language problems are mainly characterised by a shrinking vocabulary and decreased word fluency, leading to a general impoverishment of oral and written language. In this stage, the person with Alzheimer's is usually capable of communicating basic ideas adequately. While performing fine motor tasks such as writing, drawing or dressing, certain movement coordination and planning difficulties (apraxia) may be present, but they are commonly unnoticed. As the disease progresses, people with AD can often continue to perform many tasks independently, but
Alzheimer’s May Show Up in Saliva [SEP] Alzheimer's disease // Lewy bodies are not rare in the brains of people with AD. Alzheimer's disease has been identified as a protein misfolding disease (proteopathy), caused by plaque accumulation of abnormally folded amyloid beta protein and tau protein in the brain. Plaques are made up of small peptides, 39–43 amino acids in length, called amyloid beta (A). A is a fragment from the larger amyloid precursor protein (APP). APP is a transmembrane protein that penetrates through the neuron's membrane. APP is critical to neuron growth, survival, and post-injury repair. In Alzheimer's disease, gamma secretase and beta secretase act together in a proteolytic
Alzheimer’s May Show Up in Saliva [SEP] Pick's disease // neuronal surface glycoside (A2B5) specific stains. Moreover, βII tubulin proteins are suspected in playing a role in the formation of phosphor-tau aggregates that are seen in PiD as well as AD. In Alzheimer's disease, all six isoforms of tau proteins are expressed. In addition, the presence of neurofibrillary tangles that are a hallmark of Alzheimer’s can be stained with antibodies to basic fibroblast growth factor, amyloid P, and heparan sulfate glycosaminoglycan. Another difference is that in Pick's disease, a personality change occurs before any form of memory loss, unlike Alzheimer's, where memory loss typically presents first. This is used clinically
Italy's coronavirus deaths surge as Lombardy seeks tougher curbs. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // United Kingdom, France, Germany, and the United Arab Emirates. According to a European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) publication, on April 2014, Tunisia had a total of 3 cases with 1 fatality. In May 2015, the first case in South Korea was confirmed in a man who had visited several Middle Eastern countries. As of 16 June 2015, a total of 150 cases has been infected, including 18 deaths, according to the World Health Organization (WHO). As of 29 June 2015, 32 people in South Korea have died from this outbreak, with 182 confirmed cases of infection. There
Italy's coronavirus deaths surge as Lombardy seeks tougher curbs. [SEP] Coronavirus // 2013, a case of contamination from human to human in France was confirmed by the French Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. In addition, cases of person-to-person transmission have been reported by the Ministry of Health in Tunisia. Two confirmed cases seem to have caught the disease from their late father, who became ill after a visit to Qatar and Saudi Arabia. By Oct. 30 2013, there were 124 cases and 52 deaths in Saudi Arabia. After the Dutch Erasmus Medical Centre sequenced the virus, the virus was given a new name, Human Corona Virus-Erasmus Medical Centre (HCoV-EMC). The final
Italy's coronavirus deaths surge as Lombardy seeks tougher curbs. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // MERS had infected at least 60 people with cases reported in Jordan, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates (UAE), Tunisia, Germany, the United Kingdom (UK), France and Italy, with a death toll of 38. Saudi officials expressed great concern that millions of Muslims from around the world would potentially be exposed to the virus during the autumn Hajj, or pilgrimage to Mecca. In May 2014, the WHO said it was monitoring the situation as global cases of MERS appeared to be on the rise, but said the situation did not yet constitute a health emergency. On 3 June 2014,
Italy's coronavirus deaths surge as Lombardy seeks tougher curbs. [SEP] Health in Italy // 8.3 and 6.7. In 2015 Liguria had the highest cancer mortality of any region in Europe, at 377 per 100,000 population. The Italian vaccination system is complex because services and decisions are delivered by 21 separate regional authorities creates many variations. There is a National committee on immunizations that updates the national recommended immunization schedule, with input from the ministry of health representatives, regional health authorities, national institute of health, and other scientific societies. Regions may add more scheduled vaccinations, but cannot exempt citizens from nationally mandated or recommended ones. A nationwide plan for eliminating measles and rubella began in
Italy's coronavirus deaths surge as Lombardy seeks tougher curbs. [SEP] Epidemiology of chikungunya // Nadu. As of August 2006, nearly 100,000 people were infected in Tamil Nadu. Chennai, capital of Tamil Nadu is one of the worst affected. On 24 August 2006, "The Hindu" newspaper reported that the Indian states of Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and Kerala had reported 1.1 million (11 lakh) cases. The government's claim of no deaths is questioned. In September 2007, 130 cases were confirmed in the province of Ravenna, Northern Italy, in the contiguous towns of Castiglione di Cervia and Castiglione di Ravenna. One person died. The source of the outbreak was an Indian
Italy's coronavirus deaths surge as Lombardy seeks tougher curbs. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // government, in November 2013, reported a woman in Spain, who had recently traveled to Saudi Arabia for the Islamic pilgrimage, contracted the disease. On 14 April 2014, one Filipino paramedic died in the United Arab Emirates, with six other reported to be infected with the virus. On 17 April, the UAE Ministry of Health reported another fatality and four additional cases, including the Filipino medical worker who travelled to the Philippines on 16 April. On 21 April 2014, the Health Ministry of UAE reported an additional 9 cases. In April 2012, six hospital workers were diagnosed with acute respiratory failure
Italy's coronavirus deaths surge as Lombardy seeks tougher curbs. [SEP] Virus (novel) // in the Alps. Although some local communities have been reporting small animals suddenly dropping dead in their area, an Italian matinee idol's death in an auto crash in early March sparks media attention. His girlfriend dies shortly after a press conference eight days later, but not before she reveals that the actor died of a heart attack just before the accident despite being in good health. Several European countries are also reporting sudden deaths of important livestock. Over the second quarter, outbreaks of influenza and polio take place around the world, and news of random heart attacks even hog the
Italy's coronavirus deaths surge as Lombardy seeks tougher curbs. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // Saudi Arabia. In the latest cluster of infections, 15 cases had been confirmed, and nine of those patients had died. Ten of the 22 people who died and 22 of 44 cases reported were in Saudi Arabia. An unconfirmed case in another Saudi citizen, for which no clinical information was available, was also reported around this time. On 22 September 2012, the Saudi Ministry of Health (MOH) announced that the two cases involving Saudi citizens, caused by what they termed a "rare pattern of coronavirus," had both proven fatal. Two of the Saudi Arabia cases were from the same family
Italy's coronavirus deaths surge as Lombardy seeks tougher curbs. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // being followed up. On 31 May 2013, the Italian health ministry announced its first case of MERS-CoV in a 45-year-old man who had traveled to Jordan. The patient is being currently treated in a hospital in Tuscany and his condition was reported as not life-threatening. On 1 November 2013, a woman who had recently traveled to Saudi Arabia for the Hajj, contracted the disease. She is stated to be in stable condition, and investigators from the World Health Organization are investigating whom she came in contact with. In February 2013, the first UK case of the novel coronavirus was confirmed
Italy's coronavirus deaths surge as Lombardy seeks tougher curbs. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // deaths." On 31 October 2013, the WHO announced that three patients in Saudi Arabia died of MERS. The patients were one woman and two men and "all had underlying medical conditions but all reported having had no contact with animals before falling ill". Early of 23 April 2014, 11 new cases including a first case for Mecca were reported by the Health Ministry. An additional 13 cases were reported on the same day. With the additional reported cases, there are now a total of 285 cases with 83 deaths in the Kingdom. A hospital-related outbreak in Riyadh brought the total
A coronavirus-related health advisory graphic issued by the World Health Organization warned against unprotected sex with farm animals. [SEP] Coronavirus // Coronaviruses also cause a range of diseases in farm animals and domesticated pets, some of which can be serious and are a threat to the farming industry. In chickens, the infectious bronchitis virus (IBV), a coronavirus, targets not only the respiratory tract but also the uro-genital tract. The virus can spread to different organs throughout the chicken. Economically significant coronaviruses of farm animals include porcine coronavirus (transmissible gastroenteritis coronavirus, TGE) and bovine coronavirus, which both result in diarrhea in young animals. Feline Coronavirus: two forms, Feline enteric coronavirus is a pathogen of minor clinical significance, but spontaneous mutation of this
A coronavirus-related health advisory graphic issued by the World Health Organization warned against unprotected sex with farm animals. [SEP] Bovine coronavirus // nasal washes – which identifies the viral antigen. The haemagglutination inhibition test can be used to establish the strain of coronavirus. Animals should be treated symptomatically. The disease can be controlled by vaccinating the dam with a live vaccine (ATCvet code QI02) whilst she is pregnant as this provides antibodies to the virus in the colostrum. Additional management factors such as ensuring adequate colostrum intake in newborn calves, using appropriate hygiene methods and ventilation of housing reduce disease incidence. Bovine coronavirus Bovine coronavirus (BCV) is as a member of the Coronaviridae family which are enveloped, single-stranded, positive-sense RNA viruses with
A coronavirus-related health advisory graphic issued by the World Health Organization warned against unprotected sex with farm animals. [SEP] Veterinary virology // arteritis virus (EAV), porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus (PRRSV), lactate dehydrogenase elevating virus (LDV) of mice and simian haemorrhagic fever virus (SHFV). Coronaviruses are enveloped viruses with a positive-sense RNA genome and with a nucleocapsid of helical symmetry. They infect the upper respiratory and gastrointestinal tract of mammals and birds. They are the cause of a wide range of diseases in cats, dog, pigs, rodents, cattle and humans. Transmission is by the faecal-oral route. Torovirus is a genus of viruses within the family "Coronaviridae", subfamily "Torovirinae" that primarily infect vertebrates and include Berne virus of horses and Breda virus
A coronavirus-related health advisory graphic issued by the World Health Organization warned against unprotected sex with farm animals. [SEP] Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus // Qatar barn, which was linked to two confirmed human cases who have since recovered. The presence of MERS-CoV in the camels was confirmed by the National Institute of Public Health and Environment (RIVM) of the Ministry of Health and the Erasmus Medical Center (WHO Collaborating Center), the Netherlands. None of the camels showed any sign of disease when the samples were collected. The Qatar Supreme Council of Health advised in November 2013 that people with underlying health conditions, such as heart disease, diabetes, kidney disease, respiratory disease, the immunosuppressed, and the elderly, avoid any close animal contacts when visiting farms
A coronavirus-related health advisory graphic issued by the World Health Organization warned against unprotected sex with farm animals. [SEP] Canine coronavirus // Canine coronavirus Canine coronavirus is a virus of the family "Coronaviridae" that causes a highly contagious intestinal disease worldwide in dogs. It was discovered in 1971 in Germany during an outbreak in sentry dogs. The virus invades and replicates in the villi of the small intestine. Intestinal disease may be related to virus-induced apoptosis (programmed cell death) of cells of the epithelial mucosa of the small intestine. Canine coronavirus was originally thought to cause serious gastrointestinal disease, but now most cases are considered to be very mild or without symptoms. A more serious complication of canine coronavirus occurs when the
A coronavirus-related health advisory graphic issued by the World Health Organization warned against unprotected sex with farm animals. [SEP] Coronavirus // 2013, a case of contamination from human to human in France was confirmed by the French Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. In addition, cases of person-to-person transmission have been reported by the Ministry of Health in Tunisia. Two confirmed cases seem to have caught the disease from their late father, who became ill after a visit to Qatar and Saudi Arabia. By Oct. 30 2013, there were 124 cases and 52 deaths in Saudi Arabia. After the Dutch Erasmus Medical Centre sequenced the virus, the virus was given a new name, Human Corona Virus-Erasmus Medical Centre (HCoV-EMC). The final
A coronavirus-related health advisory graphic issued by the World Health Organization warned against unprotected sex with farm animals. [SEP] Transmissible gastroenteritis coronavirus // projections and an envelop. The viruses are mainly circular in shape with a diameter ranging from 100 to 150 nm including the surface projections. The projections were mainly petal-shaped attached by a very narrow stalk. The projections seemed to be very easily detached from the virus and were only found on select areas. TGEV infects pigs. However, in young pigs, the mortality rate is close to 100%. The pathology of TGEV is similar to that of other coronaviruses. Coronaviruses enter the host by first attaching to the host cell using the spike glycoprotein. The S protein interacts with the porcine
A coronavirus-related health advisory graphic issued by the World Health Organization warned against unprotected sex with farm animals. [SEP] Bovine coronavirus // Bovine coronavirus Bovine coronavirus (BCV) is as a member of the Coronaviridae family which are enveloped, single-stranded, positive-sense RNA viruses with a club-shaped surface. Infection causes calf enteritis and contributes to the enzootic pneumonia complex in calves. It can also cause winter dysentery in adult cattle. It can infect both domestic and wild ruminants and has a worldwide distribution. Transmission is horizontal, via oro-fecal or respiratory routes. Infection normally occurs in calves between the ages of one week and three months. Gastrointestinal signs include profuse diarrhea, dehydration, depression, reduced weight gain and anorexia. Respiratory infection in the calf produces a
A coronavirus-related health advisory graphic issued by the World Health Organization warned against unprotected sex with farm animals. [SEP] Coronaviridae // responsible for the helical symmetry of the nucleocapsid that encloses the genomic RNA. Group: ssRNA(+) There are currently a total of 25 species assigned to this family, twenty of which belong to the subfamily "Coronavirinae". Coronaviruses are transmitted by faecal-oral route or by aerosols of respiratory secretions. Coronaviruses infect a wide range of mammals and birds and occur worldwide. Although most diseases are mild, sometimes they can cause more severe situations in humans, such as, for example, the infection of the respiratory tract known as Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS). They can also cause enteric infections in very young infants
A coronavirus-related health advisory graphic issued by the World Health Organization warned against unprotected sex with farm animals. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // of unknown origin. Of the six, two died. All the cases were reported to the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC). After the September identification of a novel CoV strain, a retroactive analysis of the hospital workers was performed. Epidemiologists discovered the Jordan cases. Using stored laboratory samples for all six, it was found that samples from the two patients who had died tested positive for nCoV. On 24 April 2014, a 25-year-old male was found positive for the coronavirus. He had history of exposure to camels and had consumed camel milk. The Ministry of Health and Medical
Anti-Gravity Treadmill helps injured get moving again [SEP] AlterG // players Kobe Bryant and LeBron James and marathon record holder Paula Radcliffe use the Anti-Gravity Treadmill for physical therapy and training. Tom Brady, quarterback for the New England Patriots, purchased two of the Anti-Gravity Treadmills. The company's products are used in medical centers and physical therapy clinics for various types of rehabilitation. In the United States, the products are used by Johns Hopkins Medicine, the Mayo Clinic,University of San Francisco and Stanford Medical Center. AlterG AlterG, Inc. is an American medical device company founded in 2005 by Sean Whalen in Fremont, California. The company makes mobility enhancement products for physical
Anti-Gravity Treadmill helps injured get moving again [SEP] AlterG // for use in medical facilities, hospitals, physical therapy clinics, and skilled nursing facilities. Like the other models, the M320 can reduce a user's body weight by up to 80%. The company released the Anti-Gravity Treadmill F320 in 2013. This device is classified as a fitness product and does not meet some of the electrical interference requirements designated by some hospitals. The Pro Anti-Gravity Treamills are used in professional athlete training and conditioning because of their high top speed of 18 mph. Bob Horst developed the technology behind the Bionic Leg, which contains sensors and robotics that detect and provide force
Anti-Gravity Treadmill helps injured get moving again [SEP] AlterG // for uses in rehabilitation. Since then the company's Anti-Gravity Treadmill has been used for rehabilitating lower extremity injury or surgery, aerobic conditioning, weight control, gait training for neurological conditions, strengthening and conditioning the elderly. The company named Steve Basta as CEO in 2011. Steve is a graduate of the Johns Hopkins program. In 2013, AlterG acquired the Tibion Corporation, and took over production and sales of its flagship product, the Bionic Leg. All of AlterG's products are manufactured and assembled at the company’s headquarters in Fremont, CA. The company’s line of Anti-Gravity Treadmills and its Bionic Leg both use patented
Anti-Gravity Treadmill helps injured get moving again [SEP] AlterG // when a patient’s weight shifts. The Bionic Leg is a battery-operated external brace that uses information from foot sensors to predict the user’s movements while the user walks, sits, and stands. The company's Anti-Gravity Treadmill is used by professional sports teams and university sports programs, including the Seattle Seahawks, Miami Heat, Boston Red Sox, Detroit Tigers, Washington Wizards, Golden State Warriors, Oakland Raiders, New York Jets, Texas Rangers, Green Bay Packers, Arizona Diamondbacks, Detroit Lions, Milwaukee Brewers, Los Angeles Dodgers, Buffalo Bills, Pittsburgh Steelers, Toronto Blue Jays and Philadelphia 76ers. US Olympic Training Centers also use the Anti-Gravity Treadmill. NBA
Anti-Gravity Treadmill helps injured get moving again [SEP] Weight-bearing // is of the utmost importance for recovery to get the right amount of weight-bearing when moving around with crutches or frames. The grades of weight bearing for each phase of recovery will be determined by the surgeon. The Anti-Gravity Treadmill can allow testing of weight bearing by lowering effective body weight in 1% increments from 100-20% of body weight. Weight-bearing In orthopedics, weight-bearing is the amount of weight a patient puts on an injured body part. Generally, it refers to a leg, ankle or foot that has been fractured or upon which surgery has been performed, but the term can
Anti-Gravity Treadmill helps injured get moving again [SEP] AlterG // AlterG AlterG, Inc. is an American medical device company founded in 2005 by Sean Whalen in Fremont, California. The company makes mobility enhancement products for physical therapy and athletic training. The first product, the Anti-Gravity Treadmill, now includes a product line including the M/F320, Via 400 and 400X, and Pro 200 and 500. In 2013 the company acquired Tibion Corporation and added the Bionic Leg to its list of products. Charles Remsberg is CEO. Sean Whalen and his father developed the original prototype of the Anti-Gravity Treadmill in the family garage. They used technology developed by NASA to create a
Anti-Gravity Treadmill helps injured get moving again [SEP] AlterG // treadmill that unweights a user through "differential air pressure". The Nike Oregon Project, runner and coach Alberto Salazar, the Oakland Raiders and the Golden State Warriors tested and used the prototype. In 2007, the Washington Wizards were the first professional sports team to purchase the P200 model, and by 2008, the Miami Heat, Golden State Warriors, Chicago Bulls, Houston Rockets, Houston Texans, and Phoenix Suns all purchased the P200 for their training rooms. In 2008, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) cleared the Anti-Gravity Treadmill, which at the time went by the name G-Trainer, as a medical device applicable
Anti-Gravity Treadmill helps injured get moving again [SEP] Treadmill // rehabilitation clinics also offer underwater treadmill therapy as part of their services provided to clients' pets. Advanced applications are so called omnidirectional treadmills. They are designed to move in two dimensions and are intended as the base for a "holodeck". There are several solutions which were proposed and research continues because some issues remain unsolved, such as large size, noise and vibration. There are parallel developments being conducted by researchers working on projects sponsored by the Department of Veterans Affairs to create virtual reality environments for a wheelchair trainer in order to promote therapeutic exercise. Treadmill A treadmill is a
Anti-Gravity Treadmill helps injured get moving again [SEP] Treadmill with Vibration Isolation Stabilization // within the micro-gravity allocation limits that are defined for the ISS. Refinements to the treadmill and harness system, which ultimately led to development of the COLBERT model, were studied after this first flight. One goal of the treadmill design is to offer the possibility of generating 1 g-like loads on the lower extremities while preserving the micro-gravity environment of the ISS for structural safety and vibration free experimental conditions. The treadmills are intended to help astronauts stay fit, fighting off the bone loss (spaceflight osteopenia) and muscle decay that otherwise comes with space travel. Astronauts use bungee cords to strap
Anti-Gravity Treadmill helps injured get moving again [SEP] Rehabilitation in spinal cord injury // can be used by individuals with a spinal cord injury for cross-country or downhill skiing. The patient's living environment can also be modified to improve independence. For example, ramps or lifts can be added to a patient's home, and part of rehabilitation involves investigating options for returning to previous interests as well as developing new pursuits. Community participation is an important aspect in maintaining quality of life. Body weight supported treadmill training is another intervention that physiotherapists may assist with. Body weight supported treadmill training has been researched in an attempt to prevent bone loss in the lower extremities in
London bans junk food ads on public transport to fight child obesity. [SEP] Junk food // rates of childhood obesity." In the UK, efforts to increasingly limit or eliminate advertising of foods high in sugar, salt or fat at any time when children may be viewing are ongoing. The UK government has been criticized for failing to do enough to stop advertising and promotion of junk food aimed at children. A UK parliamentary select committee recommended that cartoon characters advertising unhealthy food to children should be banned, supermarkets should have to remove unhealthy sweets and snacks from ends of isles and checkout areas, local authorities should be able to limit the number of fast food outlets
London bans junk food ads on public transport to fight child obesity. [SEP] Healthcare in London // which reported in October 2014 proposed the toughest measures seen in the UK to tackle the "obesity emergency" that leaves one in three 10-year-olds overweight or obese including Ofsted-style ratings highlighting the best and worst schools at promoting healthy eating, and requiring chain restaurants to include "traffic light" calorie warnings on menus. He called for the Mayor to rewrite the London Plan to give borough councils greater protecting in banning takeaways from within 400m of the school gates. London is submitting proposals for greater local control of the NHS and social care following developments in Manchester. Capital funding for the
London bans junk food ads on public transport to fight child obesity. [SEP] Obesity in Mexico // children and reducing childhood obesity. Decio de Maria Serrano, the president of the Mexican soccer federation, said: "We are excited with this new campaign. All the people that are involved in this amazing sport have to contribute to combat childhood obesity it is a big responsibility because it is a big problem in this country. (Mexico) It is a task that deserves support" Congress's lower house of Congress passed a special tax on junk food that is seen as potentially the broadest of its kind, part of an ambitious Mexican government effort to contain runaway rates of obesity and diabetes.
London bans junk food ads on public transport to fight child obesity. [SEP] Childhood obesity // the Obesity Health Alliance has called on whichever party wins the general election to take measures to reduce childhood obesity, for example by banning advertisements for unhealthy foods before 9:00 pm and banning sports sponsorship by manufacturers of unhealthy foods. The failure of the present UK government to cut sugar, fat and salt content in foods has been criticised. Health experts, the health select committee and campaigners described Conservative plans over childhood obesity as, "weak" and "watered down". Physical inactivity of children has also shown to be a serious cause, and children who fail to engage in regular physical activity
London bans junk food ads on public transport to fight child obesity. [SEP] Junk food // of caffeine per 100 ml. Norway taxes refined sugar, and Mexico has various excises on unhealthy food. On April 1, 2015, the first fat tax in the US, the Navajo Nation's Healthy Diné Nation Act of 2014, mandating a 2% junk food tax, came into effect, covering the of Navajo reservation; the Act targeted problems with obesity and diabetes among the Navajo population. Junk food that is targeted at children is a contentious issue. In "The Impact of Advertising on Childhood obesity", the American Psychological Association reports: "Research has found strong associations between increases in advertising for non-nutritious foods and
London bans junk food ads on public transport to fight child obesity. [SEP] Broadcasting Act 2009 // junk food during children television viewing periods will also be added when this bill is enacted in an effort to reduce the problems of obesity in Irish society that junk food adverts may encourage. Television licence fee evaders are to face significantly heavier fines but will get a last chance to avoid a court appearance. In its current form, it removes the existing ban on advertising directed towards religious ends, replacing it with a ban on advertising that refers to the benefits or otherwise of belonging to or believing in a particular religion. A date of between September 2012 and
London bans junk food ads on public transport to fight child obesity. [SEP] Obesity in Australia // to develop consistent urban planning guidelines that focus on creating environments that encourage Australians to be healthy and active. The former ALP government under Prime Minister Julia Gillard wanted to tackle the obesity problem in Australia by giving tax subsidies which would fund gym memberships to people who wish to lose weight. Her watchdog group, the National Preventative Health Taskforce, also wants to target childhood obesity by banning ads for junk food during the daytime when most children's television programs air. In August 2008, the government of New South Wales announced that it would pay for morbidly obese patients to
London bans junk food ads on public transport to fight child obesity. [SEP] Obesity in the Middle East and North Africa // of lectures aimed at teenagers and covered topics such as smoking, obesity, and losing weight. The Abu Dhabi Food Control Authority, addressed the rising rates of obesity by banning all junk food from school canteens. This included burgers, shawarma, sugary drinks, and energy drinks. Parents were supportive of the decision, as one in eight children is obese. On October 8–9, 2010, the Ministry of Health sponsored the International Diabetes Summit in Dubai. The purpose of the conference was to "highlight the rising prevalence of diabetes and its complications in the world in general and the Middle East in particular". One
London bans junk food ads on public transport to fight child obesity. [SEP] Junk food // in their area, brands associated with unhealthy foods should be banned from sponsoring sports clubs, youth leagues and tournaments, and social media like Facebook should cut down junk food advertising to children—all are currently just recommendations. Controversy over junk food promotions during Australian cricket matches was reported in the news media in early 2015. A Wollongong University study showed that junk food sponsors were mentioned over 1,000 times in a single match broadcast, which included ads and branding worn on players' uniforms and on the scoreboard and pitch. A coalition of Australian obesity, cancer and diabetes organizations called on Cricket
London bans junk food ads on public transport to fight child obesity. [SEP] Ara Darzi, Baron Darzi of Denham // reported in October 2014 proposed the toughest measures seen in the UK to tackle the "obesity emergency" that leaves one in three 10-year-olds overweight or obese, including Ofsted-style ratings highlighting the best and worst schools at promoting healthy eating, and requiring chain restaurants to include "traffic light" calorie warnings on menus. He called for the Mayor to rewrite the London Plan to give borough councils greater protecting in banning takeaways from within 400m of the school gates. Also in 2013, Lord Darzi hosted the World Innovation Summit for Health in Doha, Qatar, under the Patronage of Her Highness Sheikha Moza
Knee Braces Ease Osteoarthritis Pain [SEP] Osteoarthritis // manual therapy is inconclusive. Functional, gait, and balance training have been recommended to address impairments of position sense, balance, and strength in individuals with lower extremity arthritis as these can contribute to a higher rate of falls in older individuals. For people with hand osteoarthritis, exercises may provide small benefits for improving hand function, reducing pain, and relieving finger joint stiffness. Lateral wedge insoles and neutral insoles do not appear to be useful in osteoarthritis of the knee. Knee braces may help but their usefulness has also been disputed. For pain management heat can be used to relieve stiffness, and
Knee Braces Ease Osteoarthritis Pain [SEP] Orthotics // case of conditions affecting the ligaments or cartilage of the knee, a KO can provide stabilization to the knee by replacing the function of these injured or damaged parts. For instance, knee braces can be used to relieve pressure from the part of the knee joint affected by diseases such as arthritis or osteoarthritis by realigning the knee joint into valgus or varus. In this way a KO may help reduce osteoarthritis pain, however, there is no clear evidence to advise people with osteoarthritis of the knee about the most effective orthosis to use or the best approach to rehabilitation.
Knee Braces Ease Osteoarthritis Pain [SEP] Knee arthritis // chair or standing in place. They are performed so that additional stress or weight is not placed on the knee joint. Water exercises are highly recommended along with the use of elastic bands. A Cochrane review could not conclude whether high-intensity exercises provide better results than low-intensity exercises. Supportive devices like knee braces can be used. In most cases, the arthritis is centered on a single side of the knee, so braces are effective in providing stability to one side. Two different forms of braces are available. A support brace provides the aid the entire knee requires, where an up-loader
Knee Braces Ease Osteoarthritis Pain [SEP] Orthotics // resisting medial and lateral collateral ligament tears. Functional braces are designed for use by people who have already experienced a knee injury and need support to recover from it. They are also indicated to help people who are suffering from pain associated with arthritis. They are intended to reduce the rotation of the knee and support stability. They reduce the chance of hyperextension, and increase the agility and strength of the knee. The majority of these are made of elastic. They are the least expensive of all braces and are easily found in a variety of sizes. Rehabilitation braces are
Knee Braces Ease Osteoarthritis Pain [SEP] Orthotics // A knee brace is not meant to treat an injury or disease on its own, but is used as a component of treatment along with drugs, physical therapy and possibly surgery. When used properly, a knee brace may help an individual to stay active by enhancing the position and movement of the knee or reducing pain. Prophylactic braces are used primarily by athletes participating in contact sports. Evidence about prophylactic knee braces, the ones football linemen wear that are often rigid with a knee hinge, indicates they are ineffective in reducing anterior cruciate ligament tears, but may be helpful in
Knee Braces Ease Osteoarthritis Pain [SEP] Knee arthritis // brace shifts the pressure away from the specific part of the knee that is experiencing the pain. Shoes or inserts that are considered to be energy absorbing are found useful for some patients as well as walking devices like a cane. Shoe insoles that are fitted to correct flat feet have provided relief to many patients. The use of oral steroids and anti-inflammatory medicines help to reduce the amount of inflammation and pain felt in the knee. If over the counter medicines like ibuprofen or naproxen are not strong enough, prescription strength medicines are used. If oral medicine and physical
Knee Braces Ease Osteoarthritis Pain [SEP] Orthotics // used to limit the movement of the knee in both medial and lateral directions- these braces often have an adjustable range of motion stop potential for limiting flexion and extension following ACL reconstruction. They are primarily used after injury or surgery to immobilize the leg. They are larger in size than other braces, due to their function. Scoliosis, a condition describing an abnormal curvature of the spine, may in certain cases be treated with spinal orthoses, such as the Milwaukee brace, the Boston brace, and Charleston bending brace. As this condition develops most commonly in adolescent females who are undergoing
Knee Braces Ease Osteoarthritis Pain [SEP] Knee replacement // and ligament tears. Debilitating pain from osteoarthritis is much more common in the elderly. Knee replacement surgery can be performed as a partial or a total knee replacement. In general, the surgery consists of replacing the diseased or damaged joint surfaces of the knee with metal and plastic components shaped to allow continued motion of the knee. The operation typically involves substantial postoperative pain, and includes vigorous physical rehabilitation. The recovery period may be 6 weeks or longer and may involve the use of mobility aids (e.g. walking frames, canes, crutches) to enable the patient's return to preoperative mobility. Knee
Knee Braces Ease Osteoarthritis Pain [SEP] Össur // its portfolio, together with 119 US and 239 pending applications world. The company operates in three markets: bracing & support, compression therapy, and prosthetics including bionics technology. It manufactures a range of braces and support products for arms, legs, and torso. Products include Unloader One, a brace that provides mechanical support to reduce the knee pain caused by osteoarthritis. It's designed to separate bones when ligaments and cartilage are damaged, and to prevent further damage to the joint. The firm also makes the CTi (formerly sold as the CTi2), a ligament brace for knees used for both rehabilitation and for
Knee Braces Ease Osteoarthritis Pain [SEP] Osteotomy // the first two months after surgery may jeopardize healing. Patients must exercise extreme caution during all activities, including walking, until healing is complete. After rehabilitation, preventing osteoarthritis involves slowing the progression and spread of the disease. Maintaining aerobic cardiovascular fitness has been an effective method for preventing the progression of osteoarthritis. Light, daily exercise is much better for an arthritic knee than occasional, heavy exercise. It is especially important to avoid any serious knee injuries, such as torn ligaments or fractured bones, because arthritis can complicate knee injury treatment. High-impact or repetitive stress sports, like football and distance running, should
Tokyo hospital trainees test positive for coronavirus after party. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // said virus. The Evangelista Medical Hospital in San Pedro, Laguna, the facility where the patient was first admitted, was temporarily closed by DOH for fourteen days. On 17 February 2015, all those who had exposure or had contact with the said nurse were tested negative of the said virus. On 6 March 2015, The Department of Foreign Affairs confirmed three Filipino female healthcare workers in Saudi Arabia who were infected with MERS-CoV. On 6 July 2015, DOH confirmed the second detected case of MERS-CoV in the country. The patient who had contracted the virus was from the Middle East and
Tokyo hospital trainees test positive for coronavirus after party. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // decided to perform a test on him, and fortunately, as well for the comfort of everybody, the findings of our Research Institute for Tropical Medicine, he tested negative." In the said press release, DOH also announced that they are tracking all other 414 passengers of Etihad Airways Flight 424 (the flight the OFW took from Abu Dhabi, UAE to Manila) in order to be tested. On 11 February 2015, a 32-year-old Filipino nurse from Saudi Arabia, who was also 1 month pregnant, was the country's first MERS-CoV case, DOH confirmed after the test turned out to be positive of the
Tokyo hospital trainees test positive for coronavirus after party. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // had contact with the Filipino paramedic who had died recently in the said country. The OFW together with four of his family members who fetched him at the airport were quarantined. In a press release on 19 April, DOH announced that the OFW who UAE doctors found positive for MERS-CoV was found negative for the virus in an subsequent test by Research Institute for Tropical Medicine (RITM). Explaining further with the test, Secretary Enrique Ona explained, "Since ten days had lapsed from the reported testing date at the UAE, our task force right away got in touch with him and
Tokyo hospital trainees test positive for coronavirus after party. [SEP] Human coronavirus HKU1 // these cases, French investigators utilized improved techniques for recovering the virus from nasopharyngeal aspirates and from stool samples. Human coronavirus HKU1 Human coronavirus HKU1 (HCoV-HKU1) is a positive-sense, single-stranded RNA virus with the HE gene, which distinguishes it as a group 2, or betacoronavirus. It was discovered in January 2005 in two patients in Hong Kong. HCoV-HKU1 was first identified in January, 2005, in a 71-year-old man who was hospitalized with an acute respiratory distress and radiolographically confirmed bilateral pneumonia. The man had recently returned to Hong Kong from Shenzhen, China. Woo, et al., were unsuccessful in their attempts to
Tokyo hospital trainees test positive for coronavirus after party. [SEP] Health care system in Japan // for 2007, which got a lot of attention when it was released in 2009, cited several such incidents in the Tokyo area, including the case of an elderly man who was turned away by 14 hospitals before dying 90 minutes after being finally admitted, and that of a pregnant woman complaining of a severe headache being refused admission to seven Tokyo hospitals and later dying of an undiagnosed brain hemorrhage after giving birth. The so-called "tarai mawashi" (ambulances being rejected by multiple hospitals before an emergency patient is admitted) has been attributed to several factors such as medical imbursements set
Tokyo hospital trainees test positive for coronavirus after party. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // of unknown origin. Of the six, two died. All the cases were reported to the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC). After the September identification of a novel CoV strain, a retroactive analysis of the hospital workers was performed. Epidemiologists discovered the Jordan cases. Using stored laboratory samples for all six, it was found that samples from the two patients who had died tested positive for nCoV. On 24 April 2014, a 25-year-old male was found positive for the coronavirus. He had history of exposure to camels and had consumed camel milk. The Ministry of Health and Medical
Tokyo hospital trainees test positive for coronavirus after party. [SEP] Human coronavirus HKU1 // The children were also tested for Human respiratory syncytial virus (RSV), parainfluenza viruses (types 1–3), influenza A and B viruses, and adenovirus by direct immunofluorescence assay as well as human metapneumovirus and HCoV-NH by Real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). All tested negative. Out of the 851 children, two tested positive for HCoV-HKU1. The researchers reported that the strain identified in New Haven is similar to the strain found in Hong Kong. This strain found in New Haven is sometimes referred to as HCoV-NH, for New Haven where it was discovered. In July 2005, six cases were reported in France. In
Tokyo hospital trainees test positive for coronavirus after party. [SEP] Middle East respiratory syndrome // pneumonia and acute renal failure. After routine diagnostics failed to identify the causative agent, Zaki contacted Ron Fouchier, a leading virologist at the Erasmus Medical Center (EMC) in Rotterdam, the Netherlands, for advice. Fouchier sequenced the virus from a sample sent by Zaki. Fouchier used a broad-spectrum "pan-coronavirus" real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) method to test for distinguishing features of a number of known coronaviruses (such as OC43, 229R, NL63, and SARS-CoV), as well as for RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp), a gene conserved in all coronaviruses known to infect humans. While the screens for known coronaviruses were all negative, the
Tokyo hospital trainees test positive for coronavirus after party. [SEP] Middle East respiratory syndrome // RdRp screen was positive. On 15 September 2012, Dr. Zaki's findings were posted on ProMED-mail, the Program for Monitoring Emerging Diseases, a public health on-line forum. The United Kingdom's Health Protection Agency (HPA) confirmed the diagnosis of severe respiratory illness associated with a new type of coronavirus in a second patient, a 49-year-old Qatari man who had recently been flown into the UK. He died from an acute, serious respiratory illness in a London hospital. In September 2012, the UK HPA named it the London1 novel CoV/2012 and produced the virus' preliminary phylogenetic tree, the genetic sequence of the virus
Tokyo hospital trainees test positive for coronavirus after party. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // a nurse who came in contact with the deceased patient are suspected to have contracted the disease. The victim's son-in-law is also reported to have been infected. According to Dr. Gooya, the infection of 1 out of the 3 suspected patients is confirmed and more tests are under way to determine the situation of the other two patients. On 7 May 2013, a case was confirmed in Nord departement of France in a man who had previously traveled to Dubai, United Arab Emirates. On 12 May 2013, in a case of human to human transmission, a man previously hospitalized in
Spooked by Modi's plastics ban, India Inc seeks clarity, exemptions. [SEP] Plastic pollution // has restricted the usage of plastic water bottles (in government functions and meetings) and styrofoam products. The state of Bihar has banned the usage of plastic water bottles in governmental meetings. The 2015 National Games of India, organised in Thiruvananthapuram, was associated with green protocols. This was initiated by Suchitwa Mission that aimed for "zero-waste" venues. To make the event "disposable-free", there was ban on the usage of disposable water bottles. The event witnessed the usage of reusable tableware and stainless steel tumblers. Athletes were provided with refillable steel flasks. It is estimated that these green practices stopped the generation
Spooked by Modi's plastics ban, India Inc seeks clarity, exemptions. [SEP] Indian Petrochemicals Corporation Limited // Indian Petrochemicals Corporation Limited Indian Petrochemicals Corporation Limited (IPCL) was a petrochemicals company in India. It was established on 22 March 1969, with a view to promote and encourage the use of plastics in India. Its business consists of polymers, synthetic fibre, fibre intermediaries, solvents, surfactants, industrial chemicals, catalysts, adsorbents, and polyesters. The Company operated three petrochemical complexes, a naphtha based complex at Vadodara and gas based complex each at Nagothane near Mumbai and at Dahej on Narmada estuary in bay of Khambhat. The Company also operates a catalyst manufacturing facility at Vadodara. Its turnover for the financial year 2005-06
Spooked by Modi's plastics ban, India Inc seeks clarity, exemptions. [SEP] Phase-out of lightweight plastic bags // all polythene bags less than 50 microns on 18 March 2016. Due to poor implementation of this regulation, regional authorities(states and municipal corporations), have had to implement their own regulation. In 2016, Sikkim, India's first fully organic state, banned the use of not only packaged drinking water bottles in any government meetings or functions but also food containers made from polystyrene foam all over the state. Himachal Pradesh was the first state to ban plastic bags less than 30 µm. The Karnataka state became first state to ban all forms of plastic carry bags, plastic banners, plastic buntings, flex, plastic
Spooked by Modi's plastics ban, India Inc seeks clarity, exemptions. [SEP] Animal welfare and rights in India // justify not using non-animal alternatives. A 2013 amendment bans the use of live animal experiments in medical education. In 2014 India became the first country in Asia to ban all testing of cosmetics on animals and the import of cosmetics tested on animals. In 2013 India made it illegal to use captive dolphins for public entertainment. In 2017 The Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change has released four new Gazette notifications under the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960 to regulate dog breeders , animal markets, and aquarium and “pet” fish shop owners . India has a grade
Spooked by Modi's plastics ban, India Inc seeks clarity, exemptions. [SEP] Indian Petrochemicals Corporation Limited // Fibres Limited (AFL), Central India Polyesters Limited (CIPL), India Polyfibres Limited (IPL), Orissa Polyfibres Limited (OPL), Recron Synthetics Limited (RSL) and Silvassa Industries Private Limited (SIPL) have been amalgamated with IPCL. This marks the entry of the Company in the polyester sector. The polyester units are based in Hoshiarpur (Punjab), Nagpur (Maharashtra), Barabanki (Uttar Pradesh), Baulpur (Orissa), Allahabad (Uttar Pradesh) and Silvassa (Dadra and Nagar Haveli). Indian Petrochemicals Corporation Limited Indian Petrochemicals Corporation Limited (IPCL) was a petrochemicals company in India. It was established on 22 March 1969, with a view to promote and encourage the use of plastics in
Spooked by Modi's plastics ban, India Inc seeks clarity, exemptions. [SEP] Greenathon // for the show, which is an all-day-long program on NDTV channels. The Greenathon helps villages with electricity, cleaning up rivers, recycling plastic bags. There is also an incident where 32–50 kg of plastics found in each stomach of 36 cows. So the India's Supreme Court has shown consideration on total ban of plastic consumptions. Priyanka Chopra started the campaign on 9 April 2014 on the banks of Yamuna River, Agra by cleaning up plastic bags called as "plastic clean-up drive". Like in previous Greenathons this year also the actor Milind Soman has taken up arms for this cause by a
Spooked by Modi's plastics ban, India Inc seeks clarity, exemptions. [SEP] SS France (1961) // environmentalist and an anti-asbestos activist, filed an application before the Supreme Court of India to ensure that the ship, reportedly containing asbestos, complied with the Court's 14 October 2003 order which sought prior decontamination of ships in the country of export before they could be allowed entry into Indian waters. On 17 May 2006, Kalraj Mishra expressed his concern to the Indian Parliament over possible hazards the "Blue Lady" presented, and requested that the government put a halt to the ship's entry. As the Indian Supreme Court had lifted any ban on the ship's entry, the "Blue Lady" was anchored
Spooked by Modi's plastics ban, India Inc seeks clarity, exemptions. [SEP] Lim Guan Eng // led by Lim, enforced the ban on free plastic bags throughout the state on 1 January 2010, despite an initial lukewarm response from retail outlets. Lim said the move would reduce the state's garbage production and carbon footprint. Retail stores, food outlets and hawker stalls statewide are required to adhere to the rulings to ensure renewal of business licences. The proceedings from the sale of plastic bags went to the "Partners Against Poverty" Special Fund to assist the state's hardcore poor. This initiative was the first of its kind in Malaysia. On 11 December 2011, Lim initiated the Car Free
Spooked by Modi's plastics ban, India Inc seeks clarity, exemptions. [SEP] 2015 Priya Pillai offloading // protests that had brought down India's GDP by 2-3%. In September 2014, a British greenpeace activist was deported from India despite having a valid visa. The Ministry of Home Affairs was given a week to respond, but sought several extensions. Eventually, the Ministry filed an affidavit stating that the action was based on a look-out circular issued the day before her flight, at the request of the Intelligence Bureau. The reason given was that Pillai "would project the image of Indian Government 'negatively' at the international level." The government claimed that "in-person testimony of local activists" dealing with sensitive subjects
Spooked by Modi's plastics ban, India Inc seeks clarity, exemptions. [SEP] Asbestos and the law // Asbestos Free India to safeguard the health of the present and future generations amidst the misinformation campaign of the White Chrysotile Industry. On 5th May 2017, India opposed listing of asbestos under the Prior Informed Consent (PIC) list of hazardous substances during the 2017 United Nations Rotterdam Convention. becoming the second Democracy (After Russian Federation) to have such a stand in the world. Besides India, Russia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Syria, and Zimbabwe also opposed the listing. While, all the other countries opposing are producers of asbestos; India ("where mining is banned") is the sole ("and largest") consumer and importer of asbestos
While the smoking rate nationally has fallen, more than 18 percent of Georgians still light up. [SEP] Smoking in Greece // smoke-free environment on all school grounds across the country. Smoking in Greece Smoking in Greece was at the highest rate of tobacco consumption (more than 40%) in the European Union in 2010. In 2014, Greece had the highest rate of smoking in the European Union. According to a survey published by the European Commission Day for World No Tobacco Day in 2017, 37% of Greeks are smokers and only 44% of Greeks have never smoked a cigarette, the smallest percentage in the EU. After Greece, France and Bulgaria have the next largest number of smokers with 36%. At 7%, Sweden
While the smoking rate nationally has fallen, more than 18 percent of Georgians still light up. [SEP] Women and smoking // of cities, municipalities, and states have passed legislation prohibiting smoking in public places, such as bars, restaurants, and an assortment of other public venues. This is a growing phenomenon, which will help to reduce smoking rates in the United States. The overall smoking rate in the United States has dropped from approximately 46% in 1950 to approximately 21% in 2004. In Edo period or earlier than it, tobacco had come to Japan. were the main smokers among Japanese women by the early 19th century. In 2010 the Hamas-led Islamist government of Gaza imposed a ban on women smoking the popular
While the smoking rate nationally has fallen, more than 18 percent of Georgians still light up. [SEP] Health in Israel // Israel Central Bureau of Statistics, the smoking rate in the Israeli adult population in 2009 was 20.9%, down from 34% in 2000. A Ministry of Health nationwide survey conducted in 2011 found that 20.6% of the population aged 21 and older were smokers. The highest percentage of smokers was among Arab males, 44% percent of whom smoked, though this figure is down from 50% in 1996. In 2014 19.8% of adult Israelis smoked, 26.3% in the Arab population and 18.4% in the Jewish population. 35% of non-smoking respondents to the World Health Survey reported that they had been exposed to
While the smoking rate nationally has fallen, more than 18 percent of Georgians still light up. [SEP] Smoking in Greece // Smoking in Greece Smoking in Greece was at the highest rate of tobacco consumption (more than 40%) in the European Union in 2010. In 2014, Greece had the highest rate of smoking in the European Union. According to a survey published by the European Commission Day for World No Tobacco Day in 2017, 37% of Greeks are smokers and only 44% of Greeks have never smoked a cigarette, the smallest percentage in the EU. After Greece, France and Bulgaria have the next largest number of smokers with 36%. At 7%, Sweden had the lowest rate. 2010 Smoking Ban Since older
While the smoking rate nationally has fallen, more than 18 percent of Georgians still light up. [SEP] Cigarette // one-seventh of the world population. While smoking rates have leveled off or declined in developed nations, they continue to rise in developing parts of the world. Smoking rates in the United States have dropped by more than half from 1965 to 2016, falling from 42% to 15.5% of US adults. In the developing world, tobacco consumption is rising by 3.4% per year. Smoking rates in Australia have dropped 4.9% in the year that ended in March 2014. Consumption of cigarettes and tobacco dropped 7.6% in the first quarter in Australia, and 0.1% of the nation’s gross domestic product was clipped
While the smoking rate nationally has fallen, more than 18 percent of Georgians still light up. [SEP] Prevalence of tobacco use // basis among men older than 15 years, was approximately 19.4% and only 3.0% for women. Figures from 2013 show that proportion of the British population (UK excluding Northern Ireland) who smoke has fallen to 19%. The Health Survey for England in 2002 found a smoking rate of 26%. By 2007 the proportion of adult smokers in England had declined four percentage points to 22%. In 2015, it was reported smoking rates in England had fallen to only 16.9%, a record low. Overall, the numbers of smokers in the UK in 2007 was estimated at 13.7 million. The rate of smoking
While the smoking rate nationally has fallen, more than 18 percent of Georgians still light up. [SEP] Chronic disease in China // years. The decrease in smoking is the only encouraging risk factor trend, and is consistent with the plateau of tobacco consumption over this same period in the face of a rising adult population, as has occurred in other countries where tobacco taxes have been raised sharply. In 1999 the first Global Youth Tobacco Survey in China showed that 22% of students aged 13–15 years had ever tried to smoke; the current smoking rate was only 5%. China's first comprehensive survey in the fields of nutrition and health was done in 2002. 71,971 households were chosen from 132 counties of 31
While the smoking rate nationally has fallen, more than 18 percent of Georgians still light up. [SEP] Health in Iran // issues as their biggest worries. Iran has implemented a strict smoking ban in all public places. By 2007, smoking decreased to 11%. However, the rate of smokers in the general population increased again significantly in recent years. As of 2018, this rate stands at 14%. According to the new law, smoking is prohibited in all public organizations, hotels, restaurants, tea houses and coffee shops. Also forbidden is the offering and smoking of "ghalyun", the traditional Persian waterpipe, which is a must in Iranian tea houses. A smoking ban for all car drivers nationwide was implemented since March 2006, and although
While the smoking rate nationally has fallen, more than 18 percent of Georgians still light up. [SEP] Smoking in Finland // elements in the successful tobacco policy is the traditional collaboration between the health authorities and non-governmental organisations, and intensive health promotion. Smoking in Finland has reduced, the smoking rates among adults in Finland in 2009 stood at 18.6%, lower than the OECD average of 22.3%. In more recent study conducted in 2014 smoking rates for men was 17% and 14% for women. Despite the decreasing trend the health effects of tobacco smoking are considerable and smoking can still be considered as a public health issue since it is still a significant cause of avoidable premature death and illness. The sale
While the smoking rate nationally has fallen, more than 18 percent of Georgians still light up. [SEP] Smoking in Latvia // Global Youth Tobacco Survey (GYTS) in 2011 found that 40.5% of children in grades 7 through 9 reported current tobacco use, while 31.5% were smoking cigarettes. The percentage of children smoking tobacco decreased between the years of 2011 and 2014, where another GYTS survey indicated that 24.7% of youth from grades 7 through 9 regularly smoked tobacco. Currently, Latvia upholds the smoking standards set by the World Health Organization by following the FCTC MPOWER tobacco control methods. These measures include monitoring tobacco usage, protecting the public from passive smoking, offering the means to quit smoking, warning the public of the
For Cold Virus, Zinc May Edge Out Even Chicken Soup [SEP] Zinc and the common cold // common viral pathogen in humans – is the predominant cause of the common cold. The hypothesized mechanism of action by which zinc reduces the severity and/or duration of cold symptoms is the suppression of nasal inflammation and the direct inhibition of rhinoviral receptor binding and rhinoviral replication in the nasal mucosa. Zinc has been known for many years to have an effect on cold viruses in the laboratory. Some lozenge formulations do not contain enough zinc to effectively reduce the lengths of colds; some of them contain ingredients that bind zinc, like citric acid, which prevent the zinc from working.
For Cold Virus, Zinc May Edge Out Even Chicken Soup [SEP] Zinc and the common cold // of muscle ache by 54%, but there was no significant effect on the duration of headache and fever. A 2013 review found that zinc supplementation at doses in excess of 75 mg/day within 24 hours of the onset of cold symptoms reduced the average duration of symptoms by 1 day. It also found that the likelihood of experiencing cold symptoms 1 week after the onset of symptoms was lower in individuals who used supplemental zinc relative to those who did not. A 2012 systematic review suggested that "zinc formulations may shorten the duration of symptoms of the common cold", but
For Cold Virus, Zinc May Edge Out Even Chicken Soup [SEP] Zinc and the common cold // Zinc and the common cold The human rhinovirus – the most common viral pathogen in humans – is the predominant cause of the common cold. The hypothesized mechanism of action by which zinc reduces the severity and/or duration of cold symptoms is the suppression of nasal inflammation and the direct inhibition of rhinoviral receptor binding and rhinoviral replication in the nasal mucosa. A 2016 meta-analysis on zinc acetate-lozenges and the common cold found that colds were 2.7 days shorter by zinc lozenge usage. This estimate is to be compared with the 7 day average duration of colds in the three
For Cold Virus, Zinc May Edge Out Even Chicken Soup [SEP] Zinc and the common cold // Zinc and the common cold The human rhinovirus – the most common viral pathogen in humans – is the predominant cause of the common cold. The hypothesized mechanism of action by which zinc reduces the severity and/or duration of cold symptoms is the suppression of nasal inflammation and the direct inhibition of rhinoviral receptor binding and rhinoviral replication in the nasal mucosa. A 2016 meta-analysis on zinc acetate-lozenges and the common cold found that colds were 2.7 days shorter by zinc lozenge usage. This estimate is to be compared with the 7 day average duration of colds in the three
For Cold Virus, Zinc May Edge Out Even Chicken Soup [SEP] Chicken soup // which may have an anti-inflammatory effect that could "hypothetically" lead to temporary ease from symptoms of illness. However, since these results have been obtained from purified cells (and directly applied), the diluted soup "in vivo" effect is debatable. "The New York Times" reviewed the University of Nebraska study, among others, in 2007 and concluded that "none of the research is conclusive, and it is not known whether the changes measured in the laboratory really have a meaningful effect on people with cold symptoms." It has also been shown that chicken soup contains the Amino acid cysteine, which is very similar
For Cold Virus, Zinc May Edge Out Even Chicken Soup [SEP] Zinc and the common cold // that further research was needed and that possible adverse effects needed to be studied. The effects of zinc supplementation on the duration and severity of cold symptoms in individuals with AIDS/HIV or chronic illness is not known due to a lack of studies involving these populations. There have been several cases of people using zinc nasal sprays and suffering a loss of sense of smell. In 2009 the US Food and Drug Administration issued a warning that people should not use nasal sprays containing zinc. Adverse effects of lozenges include bad taste and nausea. The human rhinovirus – the most
For Cold Virus, Zinc May Edge Out Even Chicken Soup [SEP] Zinc and the common cold // trials. A 2015 meta-analysis on zinc lozenges and the common cold found no difference in the effects of zinc acetate lozenges on diverse respiratory symptoms. Although zinc lozenges most probably lead to highest concentration of zinc in the pharyngeal region, a subsequent meta-analysis showed that the effects of high-dose zinc acetate lozenges did not significantly differ in their effects on pharyngeal and nasal symptoms. The duration of nasal discharge was shortened by 34%, nasal congestion by 37%, sneezing by 22%, scratchy throat by 33%, sore throat by 18%, hoarseness by 43%, and cough by 46%. Zinc lozenges shortened the duration
For Cold Virus, Zinc May Edge Out Even Chicken Soup [SEP] Common cold // be effective in reducing the transmission of cold viruses, especially among children. Whether the addition of antivirals or antibacterials to normal hand washing provides greater benefit is unknown. Wearing face masks when around people who are infected may be beneficial; however, there is insufficient evidence for maintaining a greater social distance. It is unclear if zinc supplements affect the likelihood of contracting a cold. Routine vitamin C supplements do not reduce the risk or severity of the common cold, though they may reduce its duration. Gargling with water was found useful in one small trial. Treatment for the common cold
For Cold Virus, Zinc May Edge Out Even Chicken Soup [SEP] Cold medicine // is mixed with respect to cough, and a 2011 Cochrane review concluded that zinc "administered within 24 hours of onset of symptoms reduces the duration and severity of the common cold in healthy people". A 2003 review concluded: "Clinical trial data support the value of zinc in reducing the duration and severity of symptoms of the common cold when administered within 24 hours of the onset of common cold symptoms." Zinc gel in the nose may lead to long-term or permanent loss of smell. The FDA therefore discourages its use. A number of accidental overdoses and well-documented adverse effects suggested
For Cold Virus, Zinc May Edge Out Even Chicken Soup [SEP] Common cold // nose. There is no vaccine for the common cold. The primary methods of prevention are hand washing; not touching the eyes, nose or mouth with unwashed hands; and staying away from sick people. Some evidence supports the use of face masks. There is also no cure, but the symptoms can be treated. Zinc may reduce the duration and severity of symptoms if started shortly after the onset of symptoms. Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as ibuprofen may help with pain. Antibiotics, however, should not be used and there is no good evidence for cough medicines. The common cold is the
Bill Gates is quoted in the February 1997 issue of George magazine as saying an "over-populated planet" would be "choked to extinction by a lung-attacking virus. [SEP] Munich Security Conference // in a few years, according to epidemiologists, terrorists might be capable of developing genetically modified species of deadly agents on the computer screen. Such highly infectious viruses could spread very quickly and kill more than 30 million people in less than a year, Gates warned, recalling the "Spanish flu", which had claimed up to 50 million victims worldwide in 1918. According to the Microsoft founder, the world is currently not prepared for such a threat in any way. In addition, the link between health issues and international security is ignored, even though constant biotechnological progress allows the development of new
Bill Gates is quoted in the February 1997 issue of George magazine as saying an "over-populated planet" would be "choked to extinction by a lung-attacking virus. [SEP] Epidemic // both common source and propagated outbreaks (sometimes referred as mixed outbreak). For example, secondary person-to-person spread may occur after a common source exposure or an environmental vectors may spread a zoonotic diseases agent. Microsoft founder and philanthropist Bill Gates wrote an essay published in the "New England Journal of Medicine" in March 2015. In the essay, Gates states that an epidemic caused by a natural disaster or bioterrorism is the most likely event that could kill 10 million or more people all at the same time. Gates and other experts suggest that the best way to prepare for an epidemic
Bill Gates is quoted in the February 1997 issue of George magazine as saying an "over-populated planet" would be "choked to extinction by a lung-attacking virus. [SEP] Phoenix Point // to the game. In 2022, Earth's scientists discovered an extraterrestrial virus in permafrost that had begun to melt. Only about one percent of the virus's genome matched anything recorded by scientists up to that time. Named the Pandoravirus, humans and animals who came into contact with it mutated into horrific abominations. By the late 2020s, a global apocalypse began when melting polar icecaps released the Pandoravirus into the world's oceans. The alien virus quickly dominated the oceans, mutating sea creatures of every size into hybrid alien monsters capable of crawling on to land. The oceans transformed in alien ways after
Bill Gates is quoted in the February 1997 issue of George magazine as saying an "over-populated planet" would be "choked to extinction by a lung-attacking virus. [SEP] Munich Security Conference // This is the only way to gain experience on how diseases spread and how people react to such situations. According to Gates, research must be carried out on how to respond to the panic reactions of the general population and the over-congestion of transport or communication systems in order to ensure sufficient medical care at all times. The American philanthropist also highlighted what he regards as the three greatest global dangers: nuclear war, pandemics, and climate change. The world is the least prepared for pandemics, and Gates warned that this was a real problem. The President of Rwanda, Paul Kagame,
Bill Gates is quoted in the February 1997 issue of George magazine as saying an "over-populated planet" would be "choked to extinction by a lung-attacking virus. [SEP] Eric Pianka // the Earth would not survive unless its population was reduced by 95% suggesting that the planet would be "better off" if the human population were reduced and that a mutant strain of Ebola would be the most efficient means. Mims' affiliate at the Discovery Institute, William Dembski, then informed the Department of Homeland Security that Pianka's speech may have been intended to foment bioterrorism. This resulted in the Federal Bureau of Investigation interviewing Pianka in Austin. Pianka has stated that Mims took his statements out of context and that he was simply describing what would happen from biological principles alone
Bill Gates is quoted in the February 1997 issue of George magazine as saying an "over-populated planet" would be "choked to extinction by a lung-attacking virus. [SEP] Ian McHarg // in Portland, Oregon, called "Man: Planetary Disease". In the speech he asserted that, due to the views of man and nature that have infiltrated all of western culture, we are not guaranteed survival. Of man, McHarg said, "He treats the world as a storehouse existing for his delectation; he plunders, rapes, poisons, and kills this living system, the biosphere, in ignorance of its workings and its fundamental value." To this end man is a "planetary disease", who has lived with no regard for nature. He discusses how in the Judeo-Christian traditions, the Bible says that man is to have dominion
Bill Gates is quoted in the February 1997 issue of George magazine as saying an "over-populated planet" would be "choked to extinction by a lung-attacking virus. [SEP] Virus: It is Aware // but Sutter is killed. They eventually manage to blow up the ship and escape. The ending cinematic ominously zooms out to depict the infested space station. The back insert blurb of the game states ""The virus has arrived on earth to destroy the human race. This time bullets will be used to cure evil."" In the native French, it says that bullets will "have" to be used. In testing a beta version of the game on Jeuxvideo.com in July 1999, Kornifex gave it an overall score of 8 out of 20, mostly criticizing the very poor handling of the character,
Bill Gates is quoted in the February 1997 issue of George magazine as saying an "over-populated planet" would be "choked to extinction by a lung-attacking virus. [SEP] Bioterrorism // York Times" report, the Gates Foundation predicted that a modern outbreak similar to the Spanish Influenza pandemic (which killed between 50 million and 100 million people) could end up killing more than 360 million people worldwide, even considering widespread availability of vaccines and other healthcare tools. The report cited increased globalization, rapid international air travel, and urbanization as increased reasons for concern. In a March 9, 2017 interview with CNBC, former U.S. Senator Joe Lieberman, who was co-chair of the bipartisan Blue Ribbon Study Panel on Biodefense, said a worldwide pandemic could end the lives of more people than a
Bill Gates is quoted in the February 1997 issue of George magazine as saying an "over-populated planet" would be "choked to extinction by a lung-attacking virus. [SEP] Global catastrophic risk // lung cancer. The report warned that the pollution crisis was exceeding "the envelope on the amount of pollution the Earth can carry" and “threatens the continuing survival of human societies”. Romanian American economist Nicholas Georgescu-Roegen, a progenitor in economics and the paradigm founder of ecological economics, has argued that the carrying capacity of Earth — that is, Earth's capacity to sustain human populations and consumption levels — is bound to decrease sometime in the future as Earth's finite stock of mineral resources is presently being extracted and put to use; and consequently, that the world economy as a whole is
Bill Gates is quoted in the February 1997 issue of George magazine as saying an "over-populated planet" would be "choked to extinction by a lung-attacking virus. [SEP] Human overpopulation // home of humanity, suggesting this could happen within a few centuries. In "", John S. Lewis suggests that the resources of the solar system could support 10 quadrillion (10) people. In an interview, Stephen Hawking claimed that overpopulation is a threat to human existence and "our only chance of long-term survival is not to remain inward looking on planet Earth but to spread out into space." K. Eric Drexler, famous inventor of the futuristic concept of molecular nanotechnology, has suggested in "Engines of Creation" that colonizing space will mean breaking the Malthusian limits to growth for the human species. It
Three additives in peanut butter cups, soy lecithin, PGPR, and TBHQ, are inherently dangerous and should be avoided. [SEP] Peanut butter // zinc, and copper (table). Peanut butter is a moderate source (10–19% DV) of thiamin, iron, and potassium (table). Both crunchy/chunky and smooth peanut butter are sources of saturated (primarily palmitic acid, 21% of total fat) and monounsaturated fats, mainly oleic acid as 47% of total fat, and polyunsaturated fat (28% of total fat), primarily as linoleic acid). For people with a peanut allergy, peanut butter can cause a variety of possible allergic reactions, including life-threatening anaphylaxis. This potential effect has led to banning peanut butter, among other common foods, in some schools. Peanut butter is included as an ingredient in
Three additives in peanut butter cups, soy lecithin, PGPR, and TBHQ, are inherently dangerous and should be avoided. [SEP] Reese's Peanut Butter Cups // product's slogan was: "There's no wrong way to eat a Reese's." The current slogan, introduced in the mid-2000s, is: "Perfect". Reese's was an associate sponsor of Monster Energy NASCAR Cup Series drivers Mark Martin (1994), and Kevin Harvick (2007–2010). Reese's Peanut Butter Cups are made with the controversial ingredient PGPR (Polyglycerol polyricinoleate, E476, a.k.a. Palsgaard 4150), which is used as a replacement for cocoa butter. The FDA has determined it to be "safe for humans as long as you restrict your intake to 7.5 milligrams per kilogram of body weight". Reese's Peanut Butter Cups Reese's Peanut Butter Cups are an
Three additives in peanut butter cups, soy lecithin, PGPR, and TBHQ, are inherently dangerous and should be avoided. [SEP] Kit Kat // less of: soy lecithin, PGPR (emulsifier), yeast, artificial flavor, salt, and sodium bicarbonate. Milk chocolate (sugar, modified milk ingredients, cocoa butter, cocoa mass, whey powder, lactose, soya lecithin, polyglycerol polyricinoleate, natural flavour), wheat flour, sugar, modified palm oil, cocoa, sodium bicarbonate, soya lecithin, yeast, Natural Flavour. Dark chocolate (sugar, unsweetened chocolate, cocoa butter, milk ingredients, soya lecithin, salt, artificial flavour), wheat flour, sugar, modified palm oil, unsweetened chocolate or cocoa powder, sodium bicarbonate, soya lecithin, artificial flavour. May contain salt and/or yeast. In Japan, Kit Kats are produced at Nestlé-owned factories in Himeji and Kasumigaura. The milk chocolate used for
Three additives in peanut butter cups, soy lecithin, PGPR, and TBHQ, are inherently dangerous and should be avoided. [SEP] Kit Kat // emulsifier. The FDA has determined it to be safe for humans in amounts up to 7.5 milligrams per kilogram of body weight. "Liver and kidney enlargement was noticed at much higher doses." Original Kit Kat ingredients unless otherwise stated, listed by decreasing weight: milk chocolate (sugar, milk ingredients, cocoa butter, cocoa mass, whey powder, lactose, soya lecithin, polyglycerol polyricinoleate, natural flavour), wheat flour, sugar, modified palm oil, cocoa, sodium bicarbonate, soya lecithin, yeast, and natural flavour. Milk chocolate (66%) (sugar, cocoa butter, cocoa mass, dried whole milk, cocoa mass, lactose and proteins from whey, whey powder, emulsifier (sunflower lecithin), butterfat,
Three additives in peanut butter cups, soy lecithin, PGPR, and TBHQ, are inherently dangerous and should be avoided. [SEP] Chicken McNuggets // a New York University professor and author of "What to Eat," says that the ingredients in McNuggets probably pose no health risks. Before August 2016, dimethylpolysiloxane and TBHQ were listed as ingredients in the McNuggets cooking process. According to Lisa McComb, a media relations representative for McDonald's, dimethylpolysiloxane is used as a matter of safety to keep the frying oil from foaming. A review of animal studies by the World Health Organization found no adverse health effects associated with dimethylpolysiloxane. TBHQ is a common preservative for vegetable oils, cereals, nuts, cookies, chips and animal fats, found in other foods such
Three additives in peanut butter cups, soy lecithin, PGPR, and TBHQ, are inherently dangerous and should be avoided. [SEP] Peanut allergy // Practices and allergen control measures adopted are not sufficient to prevent the presence of accidental trace amounts. These allergens include wheat, rye, barley, oats and their hybrids, crustaceans, eggs, fish, peanuts, soybean, milk of all species of mammalians, almonds, hazelnuts, cashew nuts, Brazil nuts, macadamia nuts, walnuts, pecan nuts, pistaches, pine nuts, and chestnuts. Immunotherapy involves attempts to reduce or eliminate allergic sensitivity by repeated exposure. This active research concept involves swallowing small amounts of peanuts, holding a peanut product under the tongue - sublingual immunotherapy - skin patches or injections. None of these are considered ready for use in
Three additives in peanut butter cups, soy lecithin, PGPR, and TBHQ, are inherently dangerous and should be avoided. [SEP] Peanut butter // contain at least 90% peanuts; the remaining <10% usually consists of "...salt, a sweetener, and an emulsifier or hardened vegetable oil which prevents the peanut oil from separating". In the US, no product labelled as "peanut butter" can contain "artificial sweeteners, chemical preservatives, [or] natural or artificial coloring additives." Some brands of peanut butter are sold without emulsifiers that bind the peanut oils with the peanut paste, and so require stirring after separation. Most major brands of peanut butter add white sugar, but there are others that use dried cane syrup, agave syrup, or coconut palm sugar. Organic and artisanal
Three additives in peanut butter cups, soy lecithin, PGPR, and TBHQ, are inherently dangerous and should be avoided. [SEP] PB Max // stand for things such as "piggy banks, polka band, portly ballerina, platinum blonde, penguin black-belt, pig basketball, plow boy, pure bliss, parachuting buffalo," or "pink baboon" — but that it in fact stood for "peanut butter." According to former Mars executive Alfred Poe, PB Max was discontinued due to the Mars family's distaste for peanut butter, despite $50 million in sales. Peanut butter (peanuts, sugar, hydrogenated vegetable oil, salt), milk chocolate (sugar, cocoa butter, milk, chocolate, soy lecithin, vanillin), partially hydrogenated vegetable oil (canola, soybean and cottonseed), oats, flour, sugar, mono and diglycerides, baking soda, high fructose corn syrup, TBHQ.
Three additives in peanut butter cups, soy lecithin, PGPR, and TBHQ, are inherently dangerous and should be avoided. [SEP] Hostess CupCake // Syrup Solids, Calcium Carbonate, Corn Starch, Calcium Sulphate, Dextrose, Soy Lecithin, Polysorbate 60, Mono and Diglycerides, Cellulose Gum, Calcium Caseinate, Wheat Gluten, Agar, Gelatin, Sodium Stearoyl Lactylate, Caramel Color, Chocolate Liquor, Locust Bean Gum, Potassium Sorbate, and, Sorbic Acid, To Retain Freshness, Flavors Natural & Artificial Hostess CupCakes were marketed for a time by the animated character of Captain Cupcake, who was a companion in commercials to Twinkie the Kid and Fruit Pie the Magician. One marketing slogan that was used was "You get a big delight in every bite." Numerous commercials featured the slogan "Hey! Where's the cream filling?"
Three additives in peanut butter cups, soy lecithin, PGPR, and TBHQ, are inherently dangerous and should be avoided. [SEP] Sugar substitute // achieve satisfactory texture sensation. In the United States, six high-intensity sugar substitutes have been approved for use: aspartame, sucralose, neotame, acesulfame potassium (Ace-K), saccharin, and advantame. Food additives must be approved by the FDA, and sweeteners must be proven as safe via submission by a manufacturer of a GRAS document. The conclusions about GRAS are based on a detailed review of a large body of information, including rigorous toxicological and clinical studies. GRAS notices exist for two plant-based, high-intensity sweeteners: steviol glycosides obtained from stevia leaves ("Stevia rebaudiana") and extracts from "Siraitia grosvenorii", also called "Luo Han Guo" or monk
A notorious pedophile was killed by a mother who blew his head off with a shotgun when he tried to rape her 12-year-old child. [SEP] Shattered (Casey book) // school coach, and Belinda a teacher. They married and had one child, a 3-year-old boy. On January 11, 1999, Belinda, 30 years old and eight months pregnant with their second child, was killed by a single gunshot blast to her head. The weapon, a 12-gauge shotgun, was never found. The case remained long unsolved until the prosecutor determined that Temple, a football coach and teacher, had been an emotionally abusive husband involved in an extra-marital affair and, thus, had a motive for killing Belinda. Temple, represented by defense lawyer Dick DeGuerin, was convicted in November 2007 of murder in the
A notorious pedophile was killed by a mother who blew his head off with a shotgun when he tried to rape her 12-year-old child. [SEP] Murugesapillai Koneswary // that same day, Mrs. Koneswary, a mother of four, was allegedly raped and killed by the police after carrying her four-year-old daughter away. It is reported that her rapists killed her by exploding a grenade on her abdomen thus destroying the evidence of any rape. According to her neighbours, she had history of problems with the Central Camp police in the Kalmunai district in eastern Sri Lanka. During that time she had been subjected to alleged persistent harassment at the Central camp checkpoint. Two months before she was killed, some police officers had allegedly cut and took away a Margosa
A notorious pedophile was killed by a mother who blew his head off with a shotgun when he tried to rape her 12-year-old child. [SEP] Day-care sex-abuse hysteria // and terrorized them by forcing them to watch him mutilate birds, a lesson to children who might reveal the abuse. Fuster had been previously convicted for manslaughter and for molesting a 9-year-old child. Testimony from children in the case was elicited by University of Miami child psychologists Laurie and Joseph Braga, who resorted to coercive questioning of the alleged victims when the desired answers were not forthcoming. Fuster's wife recanted her court testimony in an interview with Frontline, saying that she had been kept naked in solitary confinement and subjected to other forms of physical and psychological duress until she
A notorious pedophile was killed by a mother who blew his head off with a shotgun when he tried to rape her 12-year-old child. [SEP] Yavuz Yapıcıoğlu // father defended himself with a pump-action shotgun. He fled from there to Edremit, where his maternal grandmother lived. Three days later, Yapıcıoğlu killed her by hitting her head with a crystal ashtray, because she had told him something about his mother (her daughter) that he did not like. His mother died of a heart attack two days later, upon learning about this incident. After another arrest, Bakırköy Psychiatric Hospital again found him to have diminished responsibility. He stayed in a mental hospital for treatment lasting about one year. Following his release, he continued with his murders. He killed three people
A notorious pedophile was killed by a mother who blew his head off with a shotgun when he tried to rape her 12-year-old child. [SEP] Homicidal sleepwalking // using an axe and a hammer on January 11, 2001. Nieto's daughter suffered a jaw fracture but was left alone after feigning death, and his son disarmed him after receiving a cut on the ear. Nieto claimed to have been asleep during the attack and dreaming that he was defending himself against aggressive ostriches. However, his children stated that he had recognized them and had even told his son to not turn on the lights because their mother (gravely injured already) was sleeping. In 2007 Nieto (already under psychiatric treatment) was sentenced to 10 years interment in a psychiatric hospital
A notorious pedophile was killed by a mother who blew his head off with a shotgun when he tried to rape her 12-year-old child. [SEP] Todd Kohlhepp // her with a .22-caliber revolver, brought her back to his home, tied her up, taped her mouth shut, and raped her. Afterwards, he walked her home and threatened to kill her younger siblings if she told anyone what happened. Kohlhepp was charged with kidnapping, sexual assault, and committing a dangerous crime against children. In 1987, he pled guilty to the kidnapping charge, and the other charges were dropped; he was sentenced to fifteen years in prison, and registered as a sex offender. According to court records, Kohlhepp was diagnosed with borderline personality disorder and had an IQ of 118, which
A notorious pedophile was killed by a mother who blew his head off with a shotgun when he tried to rape her 12-year-old child. [SEP] Russell Williams (criminal) // head while she and her baby were asleep in her house. The first day of trial revealed that Williams also had pedophiliac tendencies, stealing underwear of girls as young as nine years old. He made 82 fetish-related home invasions and attempted break-ins between September 2007 and November 2009. Williams had progressed from break-ins to sexual assaults with no penetration to rape and murder. He had kept detailed track of police reports of the crimes he was committing, logged his crimes, kept photos and videos, and had even left notes and messages for his victims. In a break-in into the bedroom
A notorious pedophile was killed by a mother who blew his head off with a shotgun when he tried to rape her 12-year-old child. [SEP] Richard Ramirez // by shooting the sleeping man in the head with a .25 caliber handgun, killing him instantly. He then repeatedly raped Somkid Khovananth, beating and sodomizing her. He bound the couple's terrified 8-year-old son before dragging Somkid around the house to reveal the location of any valuable items, which he stole. During his assault he demanded that she "swear to Satan" that she was not hiding any money from him. On August 6, 1985, Ramirez drove to Northridge and broke into the home of Chris and Virginia Peterson. Ramirez crept into the bedroom, startling Virginia, 27, prompting him to shoot her
A notorious pedophile was killed by a mother who blew his head off with a shotgun when he tried to rape her 12-year-old child. [SEP] Killing of Ronnie Paris // had repeatedly abused the child, slapping him in the back of the head, slamming him into walls, and forcing the child to participate in father-son boxing matches until the boy began to shake, cry, and wet himself. The child's father was charged with murder and aggravated child abuse. His mother was charged with child neglect and failing to get medical attention for her son. In July 2005, Ronnie Paris Sr. went on trial for his son's murder facing a maximum of 15 years for the death. During the trial witnesses testified the boy had been slapped around and thrown into
A notorious pedophile was killed by a mother who blew his head off with a shotgun when he tried to rape her 12-year-old child. [SEP] Manuel Octavio Bermúdez // as abusive. Bermúdez later had several kids of his own. Bermúdez raped and killed at least 21 children in several towns of Valle del Cauca from 1999 to 2003. He had worked as an ice cream vendor and would lure his victims to corn fields with offers of money for picking corn. Bermúdez would then rape and strangle them to death while sometimes injecting them with a syringe to weary their legs. The mother of 12-year-old Luis Carlos Gálvez reported his disappearance and Bermúdez had been seen with him. He was arrested on July 18, 2003. Investigators inspected a room
New Portable Scanner for Breast Cancer [SEP] Breast cancer screening // rate of false positives and lead to invasive procedures that are unlikely to benefit the patient. Molecular breast imaging is a nuclear medicine technique that is currently under study. It shows promising results for imaging people with dense breast tissue and may have accuracies comparable to MRI. It may be better than mammography in some people with dense breast tissue, detecting two to three times more cancers in this population. It however carries a greater risk of radiation damage making it inappropriate for general breast cancer screening. It is possible to reduce the dose of radiation used. An earlier alternative
New Portable Scanner for Breast Cancer [SEP] Portable ultrasound // Portable ultrasound Portable ultrasound is a modality of medical ultrasonography that utilizes small and light devices, compared to the console style ultrasound machines that preceded them. In most cases these mobile ultrasound systems could be carried by hand and in some cases even operated for a time on battery power alone. The first portable ultrasound machines arrived in the early 1980s but battery powered systems that could be easily carried did not arrive until the late 1990s. The ADR 2130, designed by Marty Wilcox was the first portable ultrasound unit commercially available in the United States, being released in 1975.
New Portable Scanner for Breast Cancer [SEP] Portable ultrasound // Centers and Humanitarian Relief Operations. Recently GE has come out with the VScan and Vscan dual probe, which offer almost a micro-ultrasound. Importantly, its price point is such that they can be issued to individual physicians. In November 2015, Philips launched a new era of portable ultrasound when it came out with the Lumify portable ultrasound machine, a first-of-its-kind portable ultrasound system that offers highly advanced transducers that connect via USB cable to off-the-shelf compatible Android devices. Ultrasound exams are performed on the free Lumify app, available at the Google Play Store, which offers features that most point-of-care ultrasound users
New Portable Scanner for Breast Cancer [SEP] History of computed tomography // can also be mounted inside large tractor trailers and driven from site to site and are known as "Mobile CT Scanners". "Portable CT Scanners" are lightweight, small, and mounted on wheels. These scanners often have built-in lead shielding and run from batteries or standard wall power. In 2008 Siemens introduced a new generation of scanner that was able to take an image in less than 1 second, fast enough to produce clear images of beating hearts and coronary arteries. CT replaced the more invasive pneumoencephalography for imaging of the brain, as well as most applications of focal plane tomography. Before
New Portable Scanner for Breast Cancer [SEP] Breast cancer screening // shown to detect cancers not visible on mammograms. The chief strength of breast MRI is its very high negative predictive value. A negative MRI can rule out the presence of cancer to a high degree of certainty, making it an excellent tool for screening in patients at high genetic risk or radiographically dense breasts, and for pre-treatment staging where the extent of disease is difficult to determine on mammography and ultrasound. MRI can diagnose benign proliferative change, fibroadenomas, and other common benign findings at a glance, often eliminating the need for costly and unnecessary biopsies or surgical procedures. The spatial
New Portable Scanner for Breast Cancer [SEP] Breast cancer screening // detected with conventional mammography, as a result, MRI screening for breast cancer is most affective as a combination with other tests and for certain breast cancer patients. In contrast, the use of MRIs are often limiting to patients with any body metal integration such as patients with tattoos, pacemakers, tissue expanders, and so on. Proposed indications for using MRI for screening include: In addition, breast MRI may be helpful for screening in women who have had breast augmentation procedures involving intramammary injections of various foreign substances that may mask the appearances of breast cancer on mammography and/or ultrasound. These substances
New Portable Scanner for Breast Cancer [SEP] Breast MRI // Breast MRI One alternative to mammography, Breast MRI or contrast enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), has shown substantial progress in the detection of breast cancer. The available literature suggests that the sensitivity of contrast-enhanced breast MRI in detection of cancer is considerably higher than that of either radiographic mammography or ultrasound and is generally reported to be in excess of 94%. The "specificity" (the confidence that a lesion is cancerous and not a false positive) is only fair ('modest'), (or 37%-97%) thus a "positive" finding by MRI should not be interpreted as a definitive diagnosis. The reports of 4,271 breast
New Portable Scanner for Breast Cancer [SEP] Reuben Foundation // new cancer Imaging Centre at the Royal Marsden Hospital in Chelsea. The new Reuben Foundation Imaging Centre opened to patients in 2014 and was officially opened in May 2015 by Simon Stevens, Chief Executive of NHS England. The centre now provides a specialist medical unit designed for the fast, thorough and accurate diagnosis of suspected cancers and other conditions, with new and increased numbers of state-of-the-art scanning machinery. It is one of the most advanced units of its kind in the UK. In March 2005 the Reuben Foundation opened a Comprehensive Breast Health Centre in the presence of the wife
New Portable Scanner for Breast Cancer [SEP] Cultural differences in breast cancer diagnosis and treatment // the first ACUSON S2000TM ABVS (Automated Breast Volume Scanner) in Africa. These are complemented by a 1.5-tesla MAGNETOM Symphony magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) system. Mammography can detect small, early-stage tumors that cannot be felt by touch. In particular, it detects micro-calcifications that may indicate tissue changes and a preliminary form of cancer. While mammography is still the standard diagnostic tool for detecting breast cancer in its early stages, the radiographers at Capital Radiology also use ultrasound, which is especially helpful in assessing dense breast tissue. If a mammography or ultrasound exam shows a suspected cancer, biopsies are carried out under
New Portable Scanner for Breast Cancer [SEP] BRCA mutation // deleterious "BRCA" mutations in order to detect new cancers as early as possible. A typical recommendation includes frequent breast cancer screening as well as tests to detect ovarian cancer. Breast imaging studies usually include a breast MRI (magnetic resonance imaging) once a year, beginning between ages 20 and 30, depending on the age at which any relatives were diagnosed with breast cancer. Mammograms are typically used only at advanced age as there is reason to believe that "BRCA" carriers are more susceptible to breast cancer induction by X-ray damage than general population. Alternatives include breast ultrasonography, CT scans, PET scans,
Nanoparticles loaded with component of common spice kill cancer cells [SEP] Gold nanoparticles in chemotherapy // difficult to access and avoids the drawbacks (adverse effects) of conventional methods, including the unnecessary destruction of healthy tissues. The cells are destroyed by exposure to light, rupturing membranes causing the release of digestive enzymes. AuNPs have high absorption cross sections requiring only minimal input of irradiation energy. Human breast carcinoma cells infused with metal nanoparticles in vitro have been shown to have an "increase" in morbidity with exposure to near infrared (NIR). Short term exposure in vivo (4–6 minutes) to NIR had undergone the same effect. "Hirsch et al" observed that extreme heating in tumours would cause irreversible tissue
Nanoparticles loaded with component of common spice kill cancer cells [SEP] Gold nanoparticles in chemotherapy // these molecules can act as tumor-targeting drug delivery systems. Once within the tumor microenvironment, these complexes dissociate and release the chemotherapeutic, allowing the drug to take effect and eventually cause apoptosis. Gold nanoparticles have their advantages in drug vectorization. They can pack several different sizes and types of dendrimers and several different types of ligands in order to effectively treat different types of cancers. For example, research shows that 80~90% of breast cancer’s tumor cells have estrogen receptors and 60~70% of prostate cancer’s tumor cells have androgen receptors. These significant amount of hormone receptors play a role in intermolecular actions.
Nanoparticles loaded with component of common spice kill cancer cells [SEP] Gold nanoparticles in chemotherapy // various biotechnological advances for in vivo delivery of drugs. To effectively target the malignant cells, the AuNPs were conjugated by polyethylene glycol, a process known as PEGylation. This masks the foreign particles from the immune system such that it arrives at its destination and increases circulation time in the system. Antibody conjugation lines the surface of the nanoparticle with cell markers to limit spread only to malignant cells. In vivo testing of mice that developed murine colon carcinoma tumour cells. They were injected with the solution of AuNPs that were allowed to spread after 6 hours. Surrounding cells were swabbed
Nanoparticles loaded with component of common spice kill cancer cells [SEP] Hadiyah-Nicole Green // of cancerous cells and decrease the amount of time it takes to target these cells. While conducting her doctoral research, Green was a member of a team that developed a laboratory method to insert nanoparticles into cancer cells while avoiding surrounding healthy cells. The tissue incorporating the nanoparticles heats up due to directed laser radiation, which then destroys the cancer cells. She first tested her ideas with cancer cells in a petri dish, then moved on to small animal models using mice. However much more research is needed to be able to extend this nanoparticle treatment to whole animals and
Nanoparticles loaded with component of common spice kill cancer cells [SEP] Gold nanoparticles in chemotherapy // cell type targeting. A tumor consists of a multitude of cell types, and thus targeting a single type of cell is ineffective and potentially dangerous. At most, this type of targeting would only have a minor effect on killing the tumor. Tumors are constantly changing and thus phenotype targeting is rendered useless. Two main problems persist: how to get to the target and how to destroy a variety of cells. A direct method of accessing and destroying tumour cells can be accomplished by photothermal cancer therapy or photodynamic therapy (PDT). This procedure is known to treat small tumours that are
Nanoparticles loaded with component of common spice kill cancer cells [SEP] Chemotherapy // accelerated approval for the treatment of refractory Hodgkin's lymphoma and systemic anaplastic large cell lymphoma. Nanoparticles are 1–1000 nanometer (nm) sized particles that can promote tumor selectivity and aid in delivering low-solubility drugs. Nanoparticles can be targeted passively or actively. Passive targeting exploits the difference between tumor blood vessels and normal blood vessels. Blood vessels in tumors are "leaky" because they have gaps from 200–2000 nm, which allow nanoparticles to escape into the tumor. Active targeting uses biological molecules (antibodies, proteins, DNA and receptor ligands) to preferentially target the nanoparticles to the tumor cells. There are many types of nanoparticle
Nanoparticles loaded with component of common spice kill cancer cells [SEP] Gold nanoparticles in chemotherapy // kill bacteria using laser. Studies has shown the effectiveness of this method on killing Staphylococcus aureus, which is significant human pathogen responsible for a wide range of diseases such as skin and wound infections, toxic shock syndrome, septic arthritis, endocarditis, and osteomyelitis. In this system, the bacteria damage is caused by inducing strong laser which leads to overheating effects accompanied by the bubble-formation phenomena around clustered gold nanoparticles. The selective targeting of S. aureus was performed using a monoclonal antibody to one of the major surface-clustered proteins, protein A (spa), which is linked to the peptidoglycan portion of the cell
Nanoparticles loaded with component of common spice kill cancer cells [SEP] Gold nanoparticles in chemotherapy // oxygen species (ROS) are formed within the treated cancer cells. While these species are not of concern to the dead cancer cells, they can cause oxidative stress in surrounding healthy cells if enough ROS are created leading to healthy cell death. This oxidative stress can be passivated using polymers as reducing agents (after degradation of the nanoparticle) and damage from ROS can be reduced using targeted uptake of the nanoparticles to the cancer cells. The mechanism for the oxidative stress caused by nanoparticles in the body is still the subject of study and provides a possible limitation when using gold
Nanoparticles loaded with component of common spice kill cancer cells [SEP] Nanocell // but has not proven to be fully successful, for tumor cells cut off from the blood supply can eventually develop “reactive resistance” to hypoxia. These resistant cancer cells could be killed by chemotherapeutic drugs, but once the vasculature to the tumor has been cut off, there is no way for chemotherapy to be delivered. Nanotechnology offers a way to deliver chemotherapeutic drugs and anti-angiogenic drugs in the same vehicle so that as the blood supply is shut off, chemotherapy is present to prevent any hypoxia-resistant cells from proliferating. Labs at MIT are in the process of developing nanocells capable of
Nanoparticles loaded with component of common spice kill cancer cells [SEP] Silver nanoparticle // and ester linkages that are not degraded immediately by natural metabolic enzymes. Recent chemotherapeutic applications have designed anti cancer drugs with a photo cleavable linker, such as an ortho-nitrobenzyl bridge, attaching it to the substrate on the nanoparticle surface. The low toxicity nanoparticle complex can remain viable under metabolic attack for the time necessary to be distributed throughout the bodies systems. If a cancerous tumor is being targeted for treatment, ultraviolet light can be introduced over the tumor region. The electromagnetic energy of the light causes the photo responsive linker to break between the drug and the nanoparticle substrate. The
North Carolina ultrasound abortion law ruled illegal by judge. [SEP] North Carolina Women's Right to Know Act // change in the people; this is a change in the leadership," he said". "An Oklahoma County judge has permanently blocked a state law that requires women seeking abortions to have an ultrasound and listen to a detailed description of the fetus before prior to the abortion. District Judge Brian Dixon handed down an order Wednesday ruling that the law is unconstitutional and unenforceable. The order says the statute passed in 2010 is an unconstitutional special law because it addresses only patients and physicians concerning abortions and not other medical care. Enforcement of the law has been blocked since shortly after
North Carolina ultrasound abortion law ruled illegal by judge. [SEP] North Carolina Women's Right to Know Act // Oklahoma. North Carolina is the third state to require a provider to place ultrasound images in a woman's line of sight and to describe them in detail". Abortion has historically been a very emotionally charged and divisive issue. The issue tends to be very partisan and is typically a topic of debate in most elections. States have attempted to control and regulate the practice in varying ways stopping just short of banning the practice. The constitutionality of banning the procedure was heard in the U.S Supreme Court in Roe v. Wade. It was decided that criminalizing the practice was in
North Carolina ultrasound abortion law ruled illegal by judge. [SEP] North Carolina Women's Right to Know Act // is the third state to approve a law requiring that a woman be shown an ultrasound before her abortion". "Barbara Holt, president of North Carolina Right to Life and a supporter of the new law, said the ultrasound requirement will help women make fully informed decisions."The ultrasound is a window into the womb and the opportunity for this mother to get scientifically accurate information about a procedure that is going to have great consequences for her and for her child. It's a life or death decision," Holt said. Supporters claim the law is an attempt to ensure that women are
North Carolina ultrasound abortion law ruled illegal by judge. [SEP] North Carolina Women's Right to Know Act // Nova Health Systems, operator of Reproductive Services of Tulsa, challenged its constitutionality in May 2010. It would have forced a woman seeking an abortion to undergo an ultrasound, have the image placed in front of her and then hear it described in detail" Wisconsin has recently passed a similarly restrictive law entitled "The Coercive and Web Cam Abortion Prevention Act". "The law, which took effect on Friday, requires women visit a doctor at least three times before having a drug-induced abortion, forces physicians to determine whether women are being coerced into having an abortion and prohibits women and doctors from
North Carolina ultrasound abortion law ruled illegal by judge. [SEP] North Carolina Women's Right to Know Act // Pledge of Allegiance and salute the flag, or compel people to display state mottoes on license plates". "She said the North Carolina abortion law "goes well beyond" requirements that patients give informed consent to medical procedures. The ultrasound provision could compel "an unwilling speaker to deliver visual and spoken messages to a listener who is not listening or looking," the judge wrote".". Aside from constitutional violations, groups against the law claim that it is simply a means of enforcing or advancing the ideologies of law makers."(The North Carolina law) turns doctors into mouthpieces for politicians' ideological message," said Bebe Anderson
North Carolina ultrasound abortion law ruled illegal by judge. [SEP] North Carolina Women's Right to Know Act // her. Neither the physician nor the pregnant woman shall be subject to any penalty if she declines to look at the presented ultrasound images." Other sections in the Bill include, Procedure in case of medical emergency, informed consent for a minor, reporting requirements, civil remedies, protection of privacy in court proceedings, assurance of informed consent and consent is freely given and severability." The ratified version of NC House Bill 854 changed the "ultrasound requirement" to the "Display of real-time view requirement"." The passage of North Carolina House Bill 854 has faced a lot of opposition. Governor Bev Perdue was among
North Carolina ultrasound abortion law ruled illegal by judge. [SEP] Catherine Eagles // charged with campaign finance violations. In January 2014, she struck down as unconstitutional a North Carolina law, similar to one ruled unconstitutional in Oklahoma, that would have required doctors and other authorized health care providers to perform an ultrasound, with the image placed in the woman's line of sight and describe the image to the woman, even if the woman and doctor both object. The case was brought by doctors, who objected to being forced to deliver what they viewed as partisan messages with which they disagreed. Catherine Eagles Catherine Caldwell Eagles (born August 30, 1958) is a United States
North Carolina ultrasound abortion law ruled illegal by judge. [SEP] North Carolina Women's Right to Know Act // who is senior counsel for the Center for Reproductive Rights, another group which filed suit against the State over the constitutionality of NC Right to Know Act.". The groups opposing the restrictions also point to the fact that other states have struck down similar laws. "Courts in Texas and Oklahoma have "already blocked enforcement of these kinds of ultrasound requirements because they radically intrude on women's private lives and violate basic constitutional rights," said Bebe Anderson". Another possible outcome of the legislation is an increase in the cost of service. ""The cost to the patient would go up, but we're
North Carolina ultrasound abortion law ruled illegal by judge. [SEP] North Carolina Women's Right to Know Act // could side against the state, said Maya Manian, a women's issues law professor at the University of San Francisco". Secondly, groups opposing the law claim that it is a violation of First Amendment rights to free speech. U.S. District Court Judge Catherine Eagles ordered a preliminary injunction against the ultrasound requirement as she believes it could prove to violate First Amendment rights to free speech. "The First Amendment prohibits government directives on "both what to say and what not to say," she wrote". Eagles also stated, "the U.S. Supreme Court has struck down statutes that require students to recite the
North Carolina ultrasound abortion law ruled illegal by judge. [SEP] Types of abortion restrictions in the United States // allowed to have the procedure. Mandatory transvaginal ultrasounds have been particularly controversial. In Texas, for instance, even if previous ultrasounds had indicated severe congenital defects, a woman seeking an abortion was required under a 2012 law to have another ultrasound done, "administered by her abortion doctor, and [she had to] listen to a state-mandated description of the fetus she was about to abort", though state-issued guidelines later did away with that ultrasound if the fetus had an "irreversible medical condition". On November 12, 2013, the U.S. Supreme Court declined to hear an appeal by the state of Oklahoma to the
There’s a “direct correlation” between North Carolina’s mask requirement and COVID-19 stabilization. [SEP] Multiple patterning // according to the polarity. Neither exposure patterns the target features directly. This approach was also implemented by IMEC as two "keep" masks for the M0A layer in their 7nm SRAM cell. Self-aligned blocking or cutting is currently being targeted for use with SAQP for sub-30 nm pitches. The lines to be cut are divided into two materials, which can be etched selectively. One cut mask only cuts every other line made of one material, while the other cut mask cuts the remaining lines made of the other material. Although EUV has been projected to be the next-generation lithography of choice,
There’s a “direct correlation” between North Carolina’s mask requirement and COVID-19 stabilization. [SEP] Multiple patterning // reduction expected with Moore's Law. EUV is more expensive than three 193i exposures (i.e., LELELE), considering the throughput. Moreover, EUV is more liable to print smaller mask defects not resolvable by 193i. Some aspects of other considered multi-patterning techniques are discussed below. Self-aligned triple patterning has been considered as a promising successor to SADP, due to its introduction of a second spacer offering additional 2D patterning flexibility and higher density. A total of two masks (mandrel and trim) is sufficient for this approach. The only added cost relative to SADP is that of depositing and etching the second spacer. The
There’s a “direct correlation” between North Carolina’s mask requirement and COVID-19 stabilization. [SEP] Extreme ultraviolet lithography // one dimension and 4X in the other, and the angle of reflection will increase. Higher demagnification will increase the mask size or reduce the size of the printed field. Reduced field size would divide full-size chip patterns (normally taking up 26 mm × 33 mm) among two or more conventional 6-inch EUV masks. Large (approaching or exceeding 500 mm) chips, typically used for GPUs or servers, would have to be stitched together from two or more sub-patterns from different masks. Without field stitching, die size would be limited. With field stitching, features that cross field boundaries would have alignment errors,
There’s a “direct correlation” between North Carolina’s mask requirement and COVID-19 stabilization. [SEP] Extreme ultraviolet lithography // and the extra time required to change masks would reduce the throughput of the EUV system. With the natural Poisson distribution due to the random arrival and absorption times of the photons, there is an expected natural dose (photon number) variation of at least several percent 3 sigma, making the exposure process susceptible to stochastic variations. The dose variation leads to a variation of the feature edge position, effectively becoming a blur component. Unlike the hard resolution limit imposed by diffraction, shot noise imposes a softer limit, with the main guideline being the ITRS line width roughness (LWR) spec of
There’s a “direct correlation” between North Carolina’s mask requirement and COVID-19 stabilization. [SEP] Wavefront coding // then removes the blur and introduces noise depending upon the physical characteristics of the processor. Dynamic range is sacrificed to extend the depth of field depending upon the type of filter used. It can also correct optical aberration. The mask was developed by using the ambiguity function and the stationary phase method The technique was pioneered by radar engineer Edward Dowski and his thesis adviser Thomas Cathey at the University of Colorado in the United States in the 1990s. After the university showed little interest in the research they have since founded a company to commercialize the method called CDM-Optics.
There’s a “direct correlation” between North Carolina’s mask requirement and COVID-19 stabilization. [SEP] Respirator assigned protection factors // facepiece respirators were 11, 18 and 26. So, the new standards limit usage of these respirators up to 40 OEL in UK (after this study). Fit testing of tight-fitting masks of negative-pressure respirators became widely used in US industry in 1980-s. At the beginning, it was thought that the half-mask fit quite well to the worker's face, if during a fit test the protection factor (fit factor) is not less than 10 (later, experts began to use "safety factor" = 10 during the fit test; threshold fit factor become 10 × 10 = 100). The widespread use of fit testing
There’s a “direct correlation” between North Carolina’s mask requirement and COVID-19 stabilization. [SEP] PROMPT Telescopes // and high school education throughout the State of North Carolina. PROMPT consists of six 0.41-m Ritchey-Chrétien telescopes by RC Optical Systems on rapidly slewing (9°/sec) Paramount ME mounts by Software Bisque, each under a clamshell dome by Astro Haven. Five of these telescopes use rapid-readout (<2 sec) Alta U47+ cameras by Apogee, which make use of E2V CCDs. The sixth is being outfitted with an LN2-cooled Micro-Cam by Rockwell Scientific for NIR imaging. Each mirror and camera coating combination has been optimized for a different wavelength range, including a u-band optimized telescope. Although other filters are available, PROMPT automatically observes
There’s a “direct correlation” between North Carolina’s mask requirement and COVID-19 stabilization. [SEP] Respirator assigned protection factors // little of such research. Therefore, it may be that some countries do not take full account of results of foreign researches (that showed a significant difference between the effectiveness of respirators in a laboratory environment; and in applying them in the workplaces). For example, after the study in 1990, the APF value of negative pressure full face masks was reduced from 900 to 40 (1997) in UK. But in other countries, similar research was not carried out; and a similar decrease did not occur. The study showed that the three models of full face masks had a significant leakage of
There’s a “direct correlation” between North Carolina’s mask requirement and COVID-19 stabilization. [SEP] Extreme ultraviolet lithography // exposures of the same mask are also expected for defect management without pellicles, limiting productivity similarly to multiple patterning. A return to extended generations of single exposure patterning would be possible with higher numerical aperture (NA) tools. An NA of 0.45 using 13.5 nm wavelength could require retuning of a few percent. Increasing demagnification could avoid this retuning, but the reduced field size severely affects large patterns (one die per 26 mm × 33 mm field) such as the many-core multi-billion transistor 14 nm Xeon chips. by requiring field stitching. In 2015, ASML disclosed details of its anamorphic next-generation EUV
There’s a “direct correlation” between North Carolina’s mask requirement and COVID-19 stabilization. [SEP] Film capacitor // years or more, and are therefore exposed to overvoltages and transients which could damage the capacitors. For this reason, suppression capacitors must comply with the safety and inflammability requirements of international safety standards such as the following: RFI capacitors which fulfill all specified requirements are imprinted with the certification mark of various national safety standards agencies. For power line applications, special requirements are placed on the inflammability of the coating and the epoxy resin impregnating or coating the capacitor body. To receive safety approvals, X and Y powerline-rated capacitors are destructively tested to the point of failure. Even when exposed
$3 trillion for federal coronavirus stimulus packages is "being borrowed basically from China. [SEP] Chinese economic stimulus program // trillion yuan ($157 billion). The stimulus package has been criticized for causing a surge in Chinese debt after 2009. In 2011, Minxin Pei criticized Beijing for "resorting to massive bank lending to local governments, which then went on an infrastructure spending binge that's certain to haunt the country for years to come". A 2014 study by global think-tank Carnegie Endowment for International Peace concluded that "[China]'s debt problems are rooted in the government's November 2008 announcement of a 4 trillion yuan ($586 billion) stimulus package to counteract the effects of the global financial crisis." Chinese economic stimulus program The 2008–09
$3 trillion for federal coronavirus stimulus packages is "being borrowed basically from China. [SEP] Chinese economic stimulus program // by the end of 2010. This stimulus, equivalent to US$586 billion, represented a pledge comparable to that subsequently announced by the United States, but which came from an economy only one third the size. The stimulus package will be invested in key areas such as housing, rural infrastructure, transportation, health and education, environment, industry, disaster rebuilding, income-building, tax cuts, and finance. China's export driven economy started to feel the impact of the economic slowdown in the United States and Europe, and the government had already cut key interest rates three times in less than two months in a bid to
$3 trillion for federal coronavirus stimulus packages is "being borrowed basically from China. [SEP] Great Recession // commercial banks can borrow overnight funds from the central bank, by two percentage points to 10.25 percent. The Reserve Bank of Australia injected nearly $1.5 billion into the banking system, nearly three times as much as the market's estimated requirement. The Reserve Bank of India added almost $1.32 billion, through a refinance operation, its biggest in at least a month. On November 9, 2008, the Chinese economic stimulus program, a RMB¥ 4 trillion ($586 billion) stimulus package, was announced by the central government of the People's Republic of China in its biggest move to stop the global financial crisis from
$3 trillion for federal coronavirus stimulus packages is "being borrowed basically from China. [SEP] American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 // $27.2 billion Total: $14.7 billion Total: $7.6 billion Total: $10.6 billion ARRA included a protectionist 'Buy American' provision, which imposed a general requirement that any public building or public works project funded by the new stimulus package must use only iron, steel and other manufactured goods produced in the United States. A May 15, 2009, "Washington Post" article reported that the 'Buy American' provision of the stimulus package caused outrage in the Canadian business community, and that the government in Canada "retaliated" by enacting its own restrictions on trade with the U.S. On June 6, 2009, delegates at the Federation
$3 trillion for federal coronavirus stimulus packages is "being borrowed basically from China. [SEP] Timothy Geithner // a former World Bank Chief Economist. The Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) and takeover of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac amounted a combined outflow of $620.3 billion in Treasury funds in the form of spending, investments, and loans. As of July 2016, $689 billion has been returned to the Treasury, primarily in the form of refunds provided by bailed-out companies and revenue from dividends. This has earned the government a profit of $68.6 billion. Although President Obama expressed strong support for Geithner, outrage over hundreds of millions of dollars in bonus payments (or employee "retention" payments) by the American International
$3 trillion for federal coronavirus stimulus packages is "being borrowed basically from China. [SEP] War on Cancer // and NCI" as well as working "with Congress to increase funding for the Food and Drug Administration." Their plan would provide additional funding for: President Obama's 2009 economic stimulus package includes $10 billion for the NIH, which funds much of the cancer research in the U.S., and he has pledged to increase federal funding for cancer research by a third for the next two years as part of a drive to find "a cure for cancer in our time." In a message published in the July 2009 issue of Harper's Bazaar, President Obama described his mother's battle with ovarian cancer
$3 trillion for federal coronavirus stimulus packages is "being borrowed basically from China. [SEP] Chinese economic stimulus program // of the funds will be reallocated from the budget of provincial and local governments. Chinese banking officials were reportedly considering establishing a fund worth between 600 billion and 800 billion yuan to purchase domestic shares listed on the Shanghai Stock Exchange, particularly those in the Shanghai Composite, in the event the Shanghai Index fell to 1,500 points. On March 6, 2009, China's National Development and Reform Commission' announced a revision of the stimulus and published a breakdown of how the funds would be distributed. Public infrastructure development took up the biggest portion – 1.5 trillion yuan, or nearly 38% of
$3 trillion for federal coronavirus stimulus packages is "being borrowed basically from China. [SEP] Chinese economic stimulus program // spur economic expansion. The stimulus package was welcomed by world leaders and analysts as larger than expected and a sign that by boosting its own economy, China is helping to stabilize the world economy. World Bank President Robert Zoellick declared that he was 'delighted' and believed that China was 'well positioned given its current account surplus and budget position to have fiscal expansion.' News of the announcement of the stimulus package sent markets up across the world. On the 15 of November, 2008, it was revealed that the central government would only provide 1.2 trillion yuan of funds. The rest
$3 trillion for federal coronavirus stimulus packages is "being borrowed basically from China. [SEP] National fiscal policy response to the Great Recession // a sign that by boosting its own economy, China is helping to stabilize the world economy. World Bank President Robert Zoellick declared that he was ‘delighted’ and believed that China was ‘well positioned given its current account surplus and budget position to have fiscal expansion.' News of the announcement of the stimulus package sent markets up across the world. In April 2009 Japan announced a third stimulus plan of 15.4 trillion yen stimulus ($153 billion). This new plan includes 1.6 trillion yen investment in low-carbon technology, 1.9 trillion yen on employment programs, and 370 billion yen for new car subsidies.
$3 trillion for federal coronavirus stimulus packages is "being borrowed basically from China. [SEP] Chinese economic stimulus program // the total package. The projects lined up include railway, road, irrigation, and airport construction. The second largest allocation – one trillion yuan – went to reconstruction works in regions hit by the 8-magnitude Sichuan earthquake in May 2008; that was followed by funding for social welfare plans, including the construction of low-cost housing, rehabilitation of slums, and other social safety net projects. Rural development and technology advancement programs shared the same amount of allocation – at 370 billion yuan each. Rural projects in the pipeline included building public amenities, resettling nomads, supporting agriculture works, and providing safe drinking water. Technology
Counterfeit masks reaching frontline health workers in US. [SEP] International Pharmaceutical Students' Federation // organise the tuberculosis awareness campaign in their home countries, where they share their knowledge as pharmacists and educate the population on the danger of tuberculosis which is still unknown by many individuals. According to a WHO announcement, the existence of substandard, spurious, falsely labelled, falsified and counterfeit (SSFFC) medical products is an unacceptable risk to public health. The Anti-Counterfeit Drug Campaign (ACDC) works towards helping healthcare students create advocacy campaigns in their countries to help combat the problems of counterfeit and substandard medications. IPSF in collaboration with other stakeholders and organisations tends to act against the unlimited growing of fake
Counterfeit masks reaching frontline health workers in US. [SEP] Counterfeit medications // after being re-packaged to conceal the true origin of the drugs. Counterfeit Lipitor also was manufactured in South America and then smuggled into the U.S. where it was co-mingled with the genuine foreign Lipitor and sold in the U.S. In addition, participants conspired to buy, sell and traffic almost eight million dollars worth of stolen Glaxo Smith Kline and Roche drugs, using fake pedigrees to launder the drugs and thereby concealing that they were stolen. There also were charges related to the sale of counterfeit Procrit, as well as counterfeit and misbranded Serostim and Neupogen. Procrit is an injectable drug
Counterfeit masks reaching frontline health workers in US. [SEP] Counterfeit consumer goods // eye infections or allergic reactions, from counterfeit products. Customs agents seized more than 2,000 shipments of counterfeit beauty products in 2016, and noted that fake personal care items were more common than knockoff handbags. One of the biggest threats to beauty consumers is the risk that they are buying counterfeit products on familiar 3rd party retail platforms like Amazon. Illicit cigarettes are an example of the multi-pronged threat of counterfeiting, providing hundreds of millions of dollars per year to entities such as Hamas, Hezbollah, al-Qaida, Islamic Jihad and the PKK. Counterfeit cigarettes cost taxpayers in every nation billions in lost
Counterfeit masks reaching frontline health workers in US. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic in the United Kingdom // that patient to surgery staff and other patients. I expect the Department of Health will issue guidance on use of face-masks if we move into a pandemic phase." Masks may not protect the wearer from inhalation of the virus, but might protect other people from picking up the virus from the wearer. Professor John Oxford, a virologist at leading London hospital, The Barts and the London, said: "Really, there is very little evidence that masks actually offer much protection against flu." It was reported that the UK government was urgently seeking to acquire more face-masks. The advice given by authorities
Counterfeit masks reaching frontline health workers in US. [SEP] Counterfeit medications // the World Health Organization had established Rapid Alert System, the world's first web-based system for tracking the activities of drug counterfeiters, in light of the increasing severity of the problem of counterfeit drugs. “If I have to follow U.S. standards in inspecting facilities supplying to the Indian market,” G. N. Singh, India’s top drug regulator, said in a recent interview with an Indian newspaper, “we will have to shut almost all of those.” According to Outsourcing Pharma in 2012, 75% of counterfeit drugs supplied worldwide had some origins in India, followed by 7% from Egypt and 6% from China. The
Counterfeit masks reaching frontline health workers in US. [SEP] Surgical mask // 2009 swine flu outbreak. For healthcare workers, safety guidelines recommend the wearing of a face-fit tested respirator mask conforming to United States standard NIOSH N95 or European standard EN 149 FFP3 in the vicinity of pandemic-flu patients, to reduce the exposure of the wearer to potentially infectious aerosols and airborne liquid droplets. The U.S Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) provides information on manufacturers' products, and the importance of correct fitting of such masks (respirators). A printable factsheet has been designed for issue to those unaccustomed to respirator use. Surgical masks are popularly worn by the general public in
Counterfeit masks reaching frontline health workers in US. [SEP] Counterfeit consumer goods // products from Chinese laboratories online with powdered fentanyl and pill presses" which are then shipped directly to buyers via regular mail services such as USPS, DHL, FedEx, and UPS. Buyers are attracted to rogue online pharmacies since they pose as legitimate businesses. Consumers are motivated by lower prices, and some are attracted by the ability to obtain prescription drugs without a prescription. Of the drugs bought online, however, 90 percent are found to come from a country different from one the website claims. A 2018 report by the DHS The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) describes counterfeit drugs as
Counterfeit masks reaching frontline health workers in US. [SEP] PRO-IP Act // counterfeit pharmaceuticals. These tablets, when consumed with alcohol, caused symptoms such as abdominal cramps, nausea, vomiting and headaches. In another case, a New York resident was incarcerated for trafficking more than a half a million tubes of counterfeit toothpaste, which contained microorganisms and diethylene glycol, a chemical used as a coolant in brake fluids. The most severe of these prosecutions included imprisonment for Kevin Xu of Texas, who trafficked counterfeit cancer drugs, which included less active ingredients than indicated on the labels. The ability to seize these counterfeit products enabled the government to protect citizen health. In commercial counterfeiting online,
Counterfeit masks reaching frontline health workers in US. [SEP] Counterfeit consumer goods // them easy prey for counterfeiters. Globally, more than half of counterfeit pharmaceuticals sold are for life-threatening conditions, such as malaria, tuberculosis, HIV/AIDS, and cancer. An estimated one million people die each year from taking toxic counterfeit medication. With the increase of internet sales, such fake drugs easily cross international boundaries and can be sold directly to unsuspecting buyers. In September 2017, Interpol, after a 10-year investigation, took down 3,584 websites in various countries, removed 3,000 online ads promoting illicit pharmaceuticals, and arrested 400 people. The majority of online pharmacies taken down did not require a prescription to order the medicines
Counterfeit masks reaching frontline health workers in US. [SEP] Counterfeit medications // free two-way SMS message, provided the manufacturer of the relevant medication has subscribed to a special scheme. Still in trial stages, the implementers of the platform announced in 2009 that they are in partnership with Ghana's Ministry of Health and the country's specialized agency responsible for drug safety, the Food and Drugs Board, to move the platform from pilot to full-deployment stage. A similar service is being rolled out in India. In 2010, NAFDAC in Nigeria launched an SMS-based anticounterfeiting platform using technology from Sproxil. That system was also adopted by GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) in February 2011. In April 2011, CNN
Olympics construction worker dies as Tokyo swelters, heatstroke suspected. [SEP] Centennial Olympic Park bombing // Janet Evans at a nearby hotel. Alice Hawthorne, 44, of Albany, Georgia, was killed in the explosion when a nail from the bomb penetrated her skull. A Turkish cameraman of Turkish Radio and Television Corporation, Melih Uzunyol, 40, had a fatal heart attack while running to the scene. The bomb wounded 111 others. President Bill Clinton denounced the explosion as an "evil act of terror" and vowed to do everything possible to track down and punish those responsible. Despite the event, officials and athletes agreed that the games should continue as planned. Though Richard Jewell was hailed as a hero
Olympics construction worker dies as Tokyo swelters, heatstroke suspected. [SEP] Rain Fall // Rain Fall In Tokyo, a minister of public works is rumored to be taking evidence of corruption to a reporter: the CIA, the yakuza, and others want to grab the information and use it to squeeze the government. On the subway trip to meet the reporter, the official is murdered, but it looks like a heart attack. However, no one, including the murderer, can find the flash drive with the evidence. Now the CIA, gangsters, and the city police are searching. The dead official's daughters are in danger: the shadowy John Rain, ex-special forces and perhaps now in league with
Olympics construction worker dies as Tokyo swelters, heatstroke suspected. [SEP] Eric Rudolph // Melih Uzunyol, a Turkish cameraman, who ran to the scene following the blast, died of a heart attack. Rudolph's motive for the bombings, according to his April 13, 2005 statement, was political: In the summer of 1996, the world converged upon Atlanta for the Olympic Games. Under the protection and auspices of the regime in Washington millions of people came to celebrate the ideals of global socialism. Multinational corporations spent billions of dollars, and Washington organized an army of security to protect these best of all games. Even though the conception and the purpose of the so-called Olympic movement is
Olympics construction worker dies as Tokyo swelters, heatstroke suspected. [SEP] Olympic and Paralympic deaths // a cyclist was killed. German Olympic coach Stefan Henze died on 15 August 2016 after his taxi was hit in a high-speed head-on collision in Rio. Olympic and Paralympic deaths At the modern Olympic Games, , 10 athletes have died while either competing in or practicing their sport. In addition, another 14 participants have died at the Olympics from other causes; 11 of these deaths resulted from the Munich massacre of 1972. Several incidents related to the Olympics have caused the death of non-participants. Large numbers were killed during the Lima football riot of 1964 and the Tlatelolco massacre in
Olympics construction worker dies as Tokyo swelters, heatstroke suspected. [SEP] Luge // Olympics on the Whistler Sliding Centre in Whistler, British Columbia, Canada. Hours later, the International Luge Federation concluded that the accident was caused by a steering error and not a track error; nevertheless, changes to the track were made before the re-opening. Kumaritashvili was the fourth athlete to die while in preparation for a Winter Olympics competition, following speed skier Nicolas Bochatay, 27, who died while preparing for the Albertville 1992 games, British luger Kazimierz Kay-Skrzypecki and skier Ross Milne, 19, who both died in the run-up to the Innsbruck 1964 games. The sport of luge is governed by the
Olympics construction worker dies as Tokyo swelters, heatstroke suspected. [SEP] New National Stadium (Tokyo) // walkway that were part of the scrapped design were eliminated while VIP lounges and seats were reduced, along with reduced underground parking facilities. These reductions result in a site of 198,500 square meters, 13% less than originally planned. Air conditioning for the stadium was also abandoned upon request of Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, and when asked about the abandonment Minister for the Olympics Toshiaki Endo stated that, "Air conditioners are installed in only two stadiums around the world, and they can only cool temperatures by 2 °C or 3 °C". The government has slated a decision on contractors and
Olympics construction worker dies as Tokyo swelters, heatstroke suspected. [SEP] Summer Olympic Games // clearly affected by Parkinson's disease, lit the Olympic torch and received a replacement medal for the one he had discarded in 1960. The latter event took place not at the boxing ring but in the basketball arena, at the demand of US television. The atmosphere at the Games was marred, however, when a bomb exploded during the celebration in Centennial Olympic Park. In June 2003, the principal suspect in this bombing, Eric Robert Rudolph, was arrested. The 2000 Summer Olympics were held in Sydney, Australia, and showcased individual performances by local favorite Ian Thorpe in the pool, Briton Steve Redgrave
Olympics construction worker dies as Tokyo swelters, heatstroke suspected. [SEP] 2007 World Championships in Athletics // World Championships 'drug-free'. The Championships were held during an unseasonably hot summer in Japan, in contrast to the cool, wet and windy conditions of Helsinki two years earlier. Temperatures earlier in the month had reached 40 °C (104 °F), killing several people. Temperatures had eased somewhat by the start of the event, but with early-morning temperatures around 30 °C and humidity high, the IAAF maintained a colour-coded advisory scale warning of the risk of heat stroke. Casualties of the heat were not as high as initially feared, but dozens of athletes failed to finish the walks and marathons and a
Olympics construction worker dies as Tokyo swelters, heatstroke suspected. [SEP] 2018 Northeast Asia heat wave // In South Korea, some 42 people died, while North Korea witnessed crop destruction. In Shenyang, China, air conditioner sales in one company spiked 35-fold over the previous years. In Japan, at least 138 people have died from heat-related causes and at 71,266 required hospitalization for heat stroke through early August. Fatalities have occurred in 28 of the nation's 47 prefectures. Between 15 and 22 July, 65 people died from the heat, including 11 on 21 July and 13 on 23 July. The number of casualties from the heat was the greatest seen in a single-week period since the government started
Olympics construction worker dies as Tokyo swelters, heatstroke suspected. [SEP] Ryotaro Azuma // on April 27. Much of his legacy as governor surrounds the improvements to Tokyo before and during the 1964 Olympics, and accompanying pollution and administrative issues. He is interred in the Tama Reien Cemetery in Fuchū, Tokyo, Japan. Ryotaro Azuma Born in Osaka, he attended Tokyo Imperial University and studied at the University of London, specializing in physical chemistry and physiology. He served in the Imperial Japanese Navy during World War II, took a position in the Health Ministry after the war, and later became head of Ibaraki University. In the 1950s he served as head of the Japanese Olympic
Facebook post Says truck drivers are being turned away from fast-food restaurants during the COVID-19 pandemic. [SEP] Golden Corral // source was found. A similar outbreak occurred in Wyoming and Orlando, Florida, in late 2012. In 2012, an outbreak of norovirus was linked to a Golden Corral restaurant in Casper, Wyoming. Over 344 illnesses, with 282 primary cases, were reported by the Wyoming state epidemiologist. The virus got a push from 31 sickened food handlers at the restaurant who mostly kept working their normal shifts. On July 1, 2013, a YouTube video was uploaded alleging that during a health inspection, the Port Orange, Florida, Golden Corral location, owned by Eric A. Holm, was improperly storing prepared and raw food next
Facebook post Says truck drivers are being turned away from fast-food restaurants during the COVID-19 pandemic. [SEP] Truck driver // of access to healthy food, lack of exercise, sedentary lifestyle, long work hours, and lack of access to care. Eighty percent of truckers have unhealthful eating patterns as a result of poor food choices and food availability at truck stops is partially to blame. The options at truck stops are generally high calorie and high fat foods available through restaurants, fast-food, diners and vending machines. Fresh produce and whole grain items are few and far between. Though 85% of mini-mart items are categorized as extremely unhealthy, 80% of these meals are considered a truck driver's main meal of the day.
Facebook post Says truck drivers are being turned away from fast-food restaurants during the COVID-19 pandemic. [SEP] Food trucks in Tampa, Florida // Killer Samich, La Creperia Café, Maggie on the Move, Stinky Bunz, O'Macalicious, 3suns Organic, Mobile Munchiez, The Cuppin Cake, Taco Bus, Fat Tortillas, Jerk Hut, Coconut Bo's, Nelly Nel's, Fire Monkey, Gone Bananas and Wicked 'Witches. Taco Bus's stationary restaurant on Hillsborough Avenue has branched out into two restaurant locations in St. Petersburg, Florida and downtown Tampa. Food trucks are also a fixture at special events and concerts. Critics point to the competition the trucks create for existing restaurants. Food trucks in Tampa, Florida Food trucks have become a popular phenomenon in Tampa and St. Petersburg, Florida. Food trucks have
Facebook post Says truck drivers are being turned away from fast-food restaurants during the COVID-19 pandemic. [SEP] Golden Corral // the guests. In all locations, guests serve themselves, including requesting made-to-order items such as Belgian waffles, omelets, and char-broiled steaks. Many locations offer a "To-Go" service, which allows customers to pack anything they want into a "To-Go" container and then pay for it by the pound. Many restaurants also offer reserved parking. In 2003, an outbreak of salmonella was linked to a Golden Corral restaurant in Kennesaw, Georgia. Twenty-three people were affected by the outbreak. The salmonella bacteria was found in a floor drain, leading health inspectors to believe that it had been washed off of equipment earlier. No original
Facebook post Says truck drivers are being turned away from fast-food restaurants during the COVID-19 pandemic. [SEP] Food Truckin' // same time as the truck or it could result in a massive fireball. Gene proceeds to destroy the truck this way, and Teddy fixes it up again. Bob and the kids work from inside the truck and Linda is forced to stay inside watching the restaurant. The food truck is doing well and Bob decides to take it on the go to get more money. Soon after, Linda shuts down the restaurant to join them on the road. Bob laments to Randy Watkins (Paul F. Tompkins) that he is still not turning a profit, and Randy mentions "Lolla-Pa-Foods-A" which has
Facebook post Says truck drivers are being turned away from fast-food restaurants during the COVID-19 pandemic. [SEP] Food truck // by September 2014. Food trucks have unique health risks compared to regular land-based restaurants when it comes to food safety and the prevention of foodborne illness. Most food trucks do not have access to adequate clean and hot water necessary to wash hands or to rinse off vegetables, as required by most health codes or regulations. In June 2017, "The Boston Globe" reviewed the 2016 city health records and found food truck had been cited for violations 200 times, with half of the violations being minor in nature and the other half being serious violations. When compared to fixed location
Facebook post Says truck drivers are being turned away from fast-food restaurants during the COVID-19 pandemic. [SEP] Food truck // updates on specials, new menu items and location changes. In fact, it could be argued that social media was the biggest contributing factor to the breakthrough success of the gourmet food truck. Food truck rallies and food truck parks are also growing in popularity in the US. At rallies, people can find their favorite trucks all in one place and as well provide a means for a variety of diverse cultures to come together and find a common ground over a love for food. On August 31, 2013, Tampa hosted the world's largest food truck rally, with 99 trucks attending.
Facebook post Says truck drivers are being turned away from fast-food restaurants during the COVID-19 pandemic. [SEP] Treehouse of Horror XX // by Apu, driving an armored off-road truck. Apu explains that he was never infected because, as a vegan and a Hindu, he is morally opposed to eating anything that was once an animal, and, as a convenience store clerk, he is "armed to the teeth" in case of a store robbery or a zombie apocalypse. The group tries to leave Springfield, but Apu crashes the truck on top of a pile of smashed cars. Apu goes to push the car off the pile, but the Simpsons drive away thinking Apu sacrificed himself, when he actually wanted the Simpsons to wait
Facebook post Says truck drivers are being turned away from fast-food restaurants during the COVID-19 pandemic. [SEP] Food truck // restaurants, the city closed nine of the 96 licensed food trucks in 2016 and closed only two out of 100 restaurants. A majority of the serious violations were related to the lack of water and hand washing. An earlier study showed that Boston food trucks, on average, received 2.68 violations per inspection between 2011 and July 2013, while restaurants received 4.56 citations for violations per inspection. For "critical foodborne violations"—defined by the city as activities that contribute to foodborne illness, such as improper labeling of ingredients—food trucks and restaurants were roughly equivalent, with 0.87 violations per inspection for food trucks,
Facebook post Says truck drivers are being turned away from fast-food restaurants during the COVID-19 pandemic. [SEP] Food truck // day. In the United States, the Texas chuckwagon is a precursor to the American food truck. In the later 1800s, herding cattle from the Southwest to markets in the North and East kept cowhands on the trail for months at a time. In 1866, the "father of the Texas Panhandle", Charles Goodnight, a Texas cattle rancher, fitted a sturdy old United States Army wagon with interior shelving and drawers, and stocked it with kitchenware, food and medical supplies. Food consisted of dried beans, coffee, cornmeal, greasy cloth-wrapped bacon, salt pork, beef, usually dried or salted or smoked, and other easy
Suicides rise and fall with economy: CDC report. [SEP] Suicide in South Korea // the economic downturn lead to clinical depression, which is a common factor that leads to suicide. Moreover, according to Durkheim, economic downfall disturbs the social standing of an individual, meaning that the individual's demands and expectations can no longer be met. Thus, a person who cannot readjust to the deprived social order caused by economic downfall is more likely to commit suicide. Analyzing the suicides up to 2003, Park and Lester note that unemployment is a major factor of high suicide rate. In South Korea, it has been the traditional duty of children to take care of their parents. However,
Suicides rise and fall with economy: CDC report. [SEP] Epidemiology of suicide // Suicide levels are highest among the retired, unemployed, impoverished, divorced, the childless, urbanites, empty nesters, and other people who live alone. Suicide rates also rise during times of economic uncertainty. (Although poverty is not a direct cause, it can contribute to the risk of suicide). Epidemiological studies generally show a relationship between suicide or suicidal behaviors and socio-economic disadvantage, including limited educational achievement, homelessness, unemployment, economic dependence, and contact with the police or justice system. War is traditionally believed to be associated with a fall in suicide rates; however, this has been questioned in recent studies, showing a more complex
Suicides rise and fall with economy: CDC report. [SEP] Suicide in Japan // women decreased by 597 to 6,747. Factors in suicide include unemployment, periods of economic stagnation or recession (such as the "Lost Score" between 1990 and 2010), and social pressures. In 2007, the National Police Agency (NPA) revised the categorization of motives for suicide into a division of 50 reasons with up to three reasons listed for each suicide. Suicides traced to losing jobs surged 65.3 percent, while those attributed to hardships in life increased 34.3 percent. Depression remained at the top of the list for the third year in a row, rising 7.1 percent from the previous year. In Japanese
Suicides rise and fall with economy: CDC report. [SEP] Suicide in Japan // stigma of unemployment. Japan's economy, the world's third-largest, experienced its worst recession since World War II in early 2009, propelling the nation's jobless rate to a record high of 5.7 percent in July 2009. The unemployed accounted for 57 percent of all suicides, the highest rate of any occupation group. As a result of job losses, social inequality (as measured on the Gini coefficient) has also increased, which has been shown in studies to have affected the suicide rates in Japan proportionately more than in other OECD countries. A contributing factor to the suicide statistics among those who were employed
Suicides rise and fall with economy: CDC report. [SEP] Epidemiology of suicide // a myth, generally reinforced by media coverage associating suicide with the holiday season. The National Center for Health Statistics found that suicides drop during the winter months, and peak during spring and early summer. Considering that there is a correlation between the winter season and rates of depression, there are theories that this might be accounted for by capability to commit suicide and relative cheerfulness. Suicide has also been linked to other seasonal factors. The variation in suicides by day of week is actually greater than any seasonal variation. Certain time trends can be related to the type of death.
Suicides rise and fall with economy: CDC report. [SEP] Suicide in South Korea // and 2005. Men increased by 244%, while women increased by 282%. Socioeconomic status is measured by a population's level of education, degree of urbanity and deprivation of the residence. Low socioeconomic status, high stress, inadequate sleep, alcohol use, and smoking are associated with suicidal tendencies among adolescents. The economic hardship factor is noted as the most frequently referred cause for elderly suicides. As 71.4% of the elderly population is uneducated and 37.1% of them live in rural areas, they are more likely to face economic hardship, which can lead to health problems and family conflicts. All these factors together lead
Suicides rise and fall with economy: CDC report. [SEP] Suicide in South Korea // that men have highest rate of suicide attempts when they experience maternal death from the ages of 0–4 and 5–9. Women have the highest suicide attempt rate when they experience maternal death from the ages of 5–9. In 1997 and 1998, the 1997 Asian financial crisis hit South Korea. During and after the economic recession of 1998, South Korea experienced a sharp economic recession of −6.9% and a surge of unemployment rate of 7.0%. A study has shown that this economic downfall had a strong correlation with an increase in suicide rates. Increase in unemployment and higher divorce rate during
Suicides rise and fall with economy: CDC report. [SEP] Natalie Jeremijenko // States. Cameras were installed without permission from local municipal authorities. Data recorded by the footage, vertical motions assumed to be suicides, came out to an average of .68 suicides per day over the duration of the project. Footage was later compared against information about fluctuations in the Dow Jones Industrial Average, the average being popularly held as an indicator of the economy's health. A commonly held conception is that suicides increase during times of economic downturn, though the comparison of data from "Suicide Box" when compared to DOW fluctuations indicated no correlations. Controversies surrounding the work related to its subject
Suicides rise and fall with economy: CDC report. [SEP] Suicide in the United States // be closely related to fibromyalgia, a common chronic pain disorder. Suicide in the United States Suicide is a major national public health issue in the United States. In 2016, there were 44,965 recorded suicides, up from 42,773 in 2014, according to the CDC's National Center for Health Statistics (NCHS). On average, adjusted for age, the annual U.S. suicide rate increased 24% between 1999 and 2014, from 10.5 to 13.0 suicides per 100,000 people, the highest rate recorded in 28 years. Due to the stigma surrounding suicide, it is suspected that it generally is underreported. In April 2016, the CDC released
Suicides rise and fall with economy: CDC report. [SEP] Unemployment // real life and not just a volunteering student population—the researchers determined that even optimists struggled with being unemployed. In 1979, Brenner found that for every 10% increase in the number of unemployed there is an increase of 1.2% in total mortality, a 1.7% increase in cardiovascular disease, 1.3% more cirrhosis cases, 1.7% more suicides, 4.0% more arrests, and 0.8% more assaults reported to the police. A study by Ruhm, in 2000, on the effect of recessions on health found that several measures of health actually improve during recessions. As for the impact of an economic downturn on crime, during the
Bald eagle died of lead poisoning in Montana’s Glacier Park. [SEP] White-tailed eagle // near fatal levels of lead exposure continues to be a major issue in the 21st century in many parts of the range, at least from Poland to Hokkaido. Despite regulations on their usage, lead and mercury poisonings were found to be the cause of death of 61 white-tailed eagles found in Germany from 1993 to 2000. In order to offset the numerous chemical and metal based poisoning that humans were inadvertently exposing the species to, a widespread operation was undertaken to feed white-tailed eagles uncontaminated foods in Sweden. Here, carcasses from slaughterhouses placed in areas free of human disturbance, usually
Bald eagle died of lead poisoning in Montana’s Glacier Park. [SEP] Bald eagle // Technical Bulletin. In 1984, the National Wildlife Federation listed hunting, power-line electrocution, and collisions in flight as the leading causes of eagle deaths. Bald eagles have also been killed by oil, lead, and mercury pollution, and by human and predator intrusion at nests. The species was first protected in the U.S. and Canada by the 1918 Migratory Bird Treaty, later extended to all of North America. The Bald and Golden Eagle Protection Act, approved by the U.S. Congress in 1940, protected the bald eagle and the golden eagle, prohibiting commercial trapping and killing of the birds. The bald eagle was
Bald eagle died of lead poisoning in Montana’s Glacier Park. [SEP] Lead poisoning in raptors // considered to be experiencing subclinical amounts of lead in their system if its between 20-60 μg/dL. If an eagle has blood levels of lead above 60μg/dL then it is considered to be a clinical case and the chances of the eagle surviving at this point are very slim to none. The liver and bone can also be biopsied to test for lead toxicity though this can only occur after the eagle has already died. Birds can also be x-rayed, as any larger pieces of lead consumed will be visible on it. When treating patients experiencing lead poisoning, the goals are
Bald eagle died of lead poisoning in Montana’s Glacier Park. [SEP] Decorah Bald Eagles // 2012, one day after the live cam had shut down for the season, the oldest of the season's three eaglets (D12) was found dead at the foot of a utility pole near the nest. D12 hatched on March 27, branched on June 9 and had fledged on June 13. Authorities believe the cause of death was electrocution. After Raptor Resource Project leaders notified the power company, crews showed up to address the safety concerns by installing a temporary insulation shield on the poles in the area. While power lines are not an electrocution hazard for birds, older poles that are
Bald eagle died of lead poisoning in Montana’s Glacier Park. [SEP] Bald eagle // concussion from a swooping parent peregrine, and ultimately died days later from it. An early natural history video depicting a cougar ("Puma concolor") ambushing and killing an immature bald eagle feeding at a rabbit carcass is viewable online although this film may have been staged. Most non-human-related mortality involves nestlings or eggs. Around 50% of eagles survive their first year. However, in the Chesapeake Bay area, 100% of 39 radio-tagged nestlings survived to their first year. Occasionally, nestling or egg fatalities are due to nest collapses, starvation, sibling aggression or inclement weather. Another significant cause of egg and nestling mortality
Bald eagle died of lead poisoning in Montana’s Glacier Park. [SEP] Bald and Golden Eagle Protection Act // eagle finds and consumes food contaminated with lead shot, the lead accumulates in the bird and can cause toxicity and even mortality. Lastly, majority of farmers and ranchers often will shoot bald and golden eagles that they consider a threat to their livestock. Unfortunately, many assumptions are made about the bald and golden eagles, thinking they are a harmful. The two eagles seek for dead animals that are killed from other factors. The measures that were taken to protect bald and golden eagles such as the 1940 Bald and Golden Eagle Protection Act, banning of DDT in 1972, the Bald
Bald eagle died of lead poisoning in Montana’s Glacier Park. [SEP] Bald eagle // range necropsied by National Wildlife Health Center from 1963 to 1984, 329 (23%) eagles died from trauma, primarily impact with wires and vehicles; 309 (22%) died from gunshot; 158 (11%) died from poisoning; 130 (9%) died from electrocution; 68 (5%) died from trapping; 110 (8%) from emaciation; and 31 (2%) from disease; cause of death was undetermined in 293 (20%) of cases. In this study, 68% of mortality was human-caused. Today eagle-shooting is believed to be considerably reduced due to the species protected status. In one case, an adult eagle investigating a peregrine falcon nest for prey items sustained a
Bald eagle died of lead poisoning in Montana’s Glacier Park. [SEP] Jancita Eagle Deer // convicted of vehicular manslaughter for killing a motorcyclist in South Dakota in 2003. He died of terminal brain cancer on January 12, 2012. Jancita Eagle Deer Jancita Eagle Deer (1952 – April 4, 1975) was a Brulé Lakota who lived on the Rosebud Indian Reservation in South Dakota. She was notable for accusing William Janklow of having raped her in January 1967 when he was a poverty lawyer and Director of the Rosebud Sioux Legal Services program on the reservation. She had worked as his babysitter. At the time the Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA) and the Federal Bureau of
Bald eagle died of lead poisoning in Montana’s Glacier Park. [SEP] Status and conservation of the golden eagle // 20th century, organochloride and heavy metal poisonings were also commonplace, but these have declined due to tighter regulations on pollution. In southern Idaho, 10 out of 17 golden eagles examined were found to have had exposure to lead. Golden eagles did not prove as susceptible to poisoning from the pesticide DDT as other large raptors, probably because of their diet of mammals. Eggs from golden eagle nests that were collected after 1946 in North America had shell thicknesses similar to (less than a 10% difference) those collected in earlier years. However, in Scotland egg shell thickness did decrease by around
Bald eagle died of lead poisoning in Montana’s Glacier Park. [SEP] Golden eagle // eagle deaths in Spain, only 6% were from unknown causes that could not directly attributed to human activities. Avian cholera caused by bacteria ("Pasteurella multocida") infects eagles that eat waterfowl that have died from the disease. The protozoan "Trichomonas" sp. caused the deaths of 4 fledglings in a study of wild golden eagles in Idaho. Several further diseases that contribute to golden eagle deaths have been examined in Japan. A captive eagle died from two malignant tumors – one in the liver and one in the kidney. In December 2016, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service proposed allowing wind-turbine electric
Roseanne Barr posed as Hitler for an issue of satirical Jewish magazine 'Heeb.' [SEP] Roseanne Barr // wherein she once again belted out the last few bars of the national anthem, without screeching. Barr elicited criticism in July 2009 when she posed as Adolf Hitler in a feature for the satirical Jewish publication "Heeb" magazine, called "That Oven Feelin. The Nazi theme was reportedly her suggestion, and featured her with a Hitler mustache and swastika arm-band, holding a tray of burnt gingerbread man cookies the article referred to as "burnt Jew cookies". The magazine's publisher, Josh Neuman, said the photos were taken for satire and were not done for shock value. Barr, who is Jewish, said she
Roseanne Barr posed as Hitler for an issue of satirical Jewish magazine 'Heeb.' [SEP] Roseanne Barr // was "making fun of Hitler, not his victims". Fox News TV host Bill O'Reilly was highly critical of her for "mocking the Holocaust" and "Extra"'s Mario Lopez stated "Come on, Roseanne. Hitler jokes are never funny." The revival of her show in March 2018 caused the photos to resurface on social media and renewed mentions of the incident in the Jewish magazine "The Forward" and the "Los Angeles Times", among others. In 2014, the parents of George Zimmerman, the man known for fatally shooting Trayvon Martin in a fight, filed a lawsuit against Barr for tweeting their home address and
Roseanne Barr posed as Hitler for an issue of satirical Jewish magazine 'Heeb.' [SEP] Heeb // "Heeb"'s Winter 2008 edition, Courtney Love told "Heeb" of ex-husband Kurt Cobain's legacy: "Every time you buy a Nirvana record, part of that money is not going to Kurt's child, or to me, it's going to a handful of Jew loan officers, Jew private banks, it's going to lawyers who are also bankers..." In 2009, "Heeb" produced its controversial Germany Issue in which Roseanne Barr posed as Adolf Hitler in drag holding a tray of "burned Jew cookies." The photo invoked the ire of Bill O'Reilly on Fox's "The O'Reilly Factor". In 2009 "Heeb" released an anthology from its "Heeb"
Roseanne Barr posed as Hitler for an issue of satirical Jewish magazine 'Heeb.' [SEP] Heeb // claimed to be the first-ever Jewish swimsuit calendar, for the Jewish year 5769, "The Ladies of '69." The calendar was photographed by "Elle" magazine cover photographer Gilles Bensimon and featured Israeli supermodels Bar Refaeli, Esti Ginzberg and Moran Atias among others. Ratner also photographed director Roman Polanski at Auschwitz, the site of the Polish-born director's mother's murder during the Holocaust. In the Fall of 2008, "Heeb" released its "Politics Issue." The cover, a group of coins being dropped into a hand, was designed by Shepard Fairey's Studio Number One and was a play on Fairey's iconic Obama "Change" image. In
Roseanne Barr posed as Hitler for an issue of satirical Jewish magazine 'Heeb.' [SEP] Heeb // Business Section spotlighted how "Heeb" did creative work for advertisers seeking to reach a young Jewish demographic. The article was accompanied by a photo of three men dressed as Hasidic versions of characters from "A Clockwork Orange". Robert Crumb and wife Aline Kominsky-Crumb illustrated the cover of the magazine's "Love Issue" in the Spring of 2007. As Aline told the magazine in an interview: "I had read Robert's work before I met him and I thought he was Jewish because he's just so whiny." "Rush Hour" director Brett Ratner guest edited "Heeb"'s 2008 Summer Edition and included what the magazine
Roseanne Barr posed as Hitler for an issue of satirical Jewish magazine 'Heeb.' [SEP] Recurring Saturday Night Live characters and sketches introduced 2001–2002 // "Mein Boyfriend", a satire of Hitler's actual autobiography "Mein Kampf". Gay Hitler also appeared as Speed Skating Hitler, rendering the Sieg Heil salute repeatedly as he skated in place. Debuted October 13, 2001. A scene in the film "Step Brothers" shows fellow SNL cast member Will Ferrell dressed as Nazi asking the antagonist "Sprechen sie dick?". A Rachel Dratch sketch. Debuted November 3, 2001. An HBO show, similar to Fox's "COPS" series, where a white trash couple (played by Amy Poehler and Chris Kattan) fist fight and police (or other authority figures) are called in to break them up. Debuted
Roseanne Barr posed as Hitler for an issue of satirical Jewish magazine 'Heeb.' [SEP] Heeb // article about Jews obsessed with Jews in sports, and "Why are We So Guilty?". "Heeb" has produced events around the world, including the "Heeb" Storytelling series. The series has been attended by Natalie Portman, Rose McGowan, Kate Beckinsale and Colin Farrell. In March 2004, in its fifth issue, "Heeb" featured the photo spread entitled "Crimes of Passion" that spoofed Mel Gibson's "The Passion of the Christ". The spread included a half naked Virgin Mary (with pierced nipples) and a Jesus with his genitals wrapped in a tallit. The Catholic League, in its 2004 Report on Anti-Catholicism stated: Abraham Foxman, director
Roseanne Barr posed as Hitler for an issue of satirical Jewish magazine 'Heeb.' [SEP] Roseanne // backing district attorney candidates that would "ignore US law & favor 'feelings' instead-and call everyone who is alarmed by that 'racist'", and claiming Soros had been a Nazi in his youth. Barr's ex-husband and original series recurring cast member Tom Arnold claimed he had notified ABC of Barr's frequent controversial tweets similar to those she had made during the morning of May 29 that led to the network reversing its decision to renew the show. In the wake of the posting, consulting producer/writer Wanda Sykes announced that she would no longer be involved with the program. Barr defended the tweet
Roseanne Barr posed as Hitler for an issue of satirical Jewish magazine 'Heeb.' [SEP] Roseanne Barr // she later called a "bad joke". Roseanne Barr was born on November 3, 1952, in Salt Lake City, Utah, to a Jewish family. She is the oldest of four children born to Helen (née Davis), a bookkeeper and cashier, and Jerome Hershel "Jerry" Barr, who worked as a salesman. Her father's family were Jewish emigrants from Russia, and her maternal grandparents were Jewish emigrants from Austria-Hungary and Lithuania. Her paternal grandfather changed his surname from "Borisofsky" to "Barr" upon entering the United States. Her Jewish upbringing was influenced by her devoutly Orthodox Jewish maternal grandmother. Barr's parents kept their Jewish
Roseanne Barr posed as Hitler for an issue of satirical Jewish magazine 'Heeb.' [SEP] Roseanne Barr // block of Hollywood Blvd. Roseanne Barr Roseanne Cherrie Barr (born November 3, 1952) is an American actress, comedian, writer, and television producer. Barr began her career in stand-up comedy at clubs before gaining critical and popular acclaim in the television sitcom "Roseanne" (1988–1997; 2018). She won both an Emmy and a Golden Globe Award for Best Actress for her work on the show. Barr was born into a Jewish family living in Salt Lake City, Utah. She became a standup comedian in 1980. In the late 1980s and early 1990s, she began to emerge as a celebrity through her role
Georgia deploys 3D printers, Guard units in testing scramble. [SEP] 648th Maneuver Enhancement Brigade // is to provide manned, ready, and fully equipped mission-capable units to the Governor of the State of Georgia and to combatant and joint task force commanders to conduct support area operations, maneuver support operations, and support to consequence management and stability operations in order to assure the mobility, protection, and freedom of action of the supported force. 2009: the 810th Engineer Company deployed to Afghanistan in support of Operation Enduring Freedom, clearing routes so coalition units could complete their missions unharmed and on time. 2010: the 190th Military Police Company deployed to Bagram Air Base near Kabul, Afghanistan. The company's
Georgia deploys 3D printers, Guard units in testing scramble. [SEP] Defense Distributed // had accepted a settlement offer from the Department of State, effectively winning the case and restarting their work. Western Washington District Court Judge Robert S. Lasnik subsequently issued an order suspending the settlement and the public release of Defense Distributed's files. Multiple lawsuits are currently filed by state governments and Defense Distributed seeking to challenge or uphold this settlement. After raising via a suspended crowd-funding appeal, suffering the confiscation of its first 3D printer, and partnering with private manufacturing firms, the organization began live fire testing of the first generation of printable firearms in December 2012. In its first year
Georgia deploys 3D printers, Guard units in testing scramble. [SEP] 3D printed firearms // of the Arms Export Control Act. In 2015, Defense Distributed founder Cody Wilson sued the United States government on free speech grounds and in 2018 the Department of Justice settled, acknowledging Wilson's right to publish instructions for the production of 3D printed firearms. In 2013 a Texas company, Solid Concepts, demonstrated a 3D printed version of an M1911 pistol made of metal, using an industrial 3D printer. After Defense Distributed released their plans, questions were raised regarding the effects that 3D printing and widespread consumer-level CNC machining may have on gun control effectiveness. The U.S. Department of Homeland Security and
Georgia deploys 3D printers, Guard units in testing scramble. [SEP] McKenna Military Operations in Urban Terrain (MOUT) Site // Georgia was designed by the Army Research Laboratory (ARL), called virtual McKenna MOUT. The software representation was modeled on the real training site at Fort Benning, Georgia. The software was developed in the early 2000s, for use as a training aid and simulation tool to collect soldier data through sensors. Data collected included individual or team performance and decision-making capabilities. ARL began the program in June 2002 and the software was released publicly in April 2005. In 1998, the MOUT Advanced Concept Technology Demonstration (ACTD) commissioned ARL to develop a realistic method to assess infantry situational awareness. The software created
Georgia deploys 3D printers, Guard units in testing scramble. [SEP] Georgia Air National Guard // airborne battle management aircraft. Its mission is command and control, intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance. Its primary mission is to provide theater ground and air commanders with ground surveillance to support attack operations and targeting that contributes to the delay, disruption and destruction of enemy forces. The E-8C evolved from Army and Air Force programs to develop, detect, locate and attack enemy armor at ranges beyond the forward area of troops. Starting in 2001, elements of every Air National Guard unit in Georgia were activated in support of the Global War on Terror. Flight crews, aircraft maintenance personnel, communications technicians, air
Georgia deploys 3D printers, Guard units in testing scramble. [SEP] Georgia Department of Defense // is organized into five major subordinate commands: the 48th Infantry Brigade Combat Team of Macon; the 78th Homeland Response Force at Clay National Guard Center in Marietta; the 78th Aviation Troop Command also at Clay; the 560th Battlefield Surveillance Brigade at Fort Gillem; and the 648th Maneuver Enhancement Brigade in Columbus at Fort Benning. In 2009, the Georgia Army National Guard deployed more than 3,200 soldiers in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom and Operation Enduring Freedom. Since September 11, 2001, more than 12,000 citizen-soldiers from every deployable line unit in the Georgia Army National Guard have seen federal service in
Georgia deploys 3D printers, Guard units in testing scramble. [SEP] 116th Air Control Wing // study on how to adapt the facility for CES’ needs. In April 2010, The 116th Air Control Wing became the first ever Georgia Air National Guard unit to send a team to the Mountain Man Memorial March, held in Gatlinburg, Tennessee to honor those who have fallen in combat. The wing team sponsored Capt Dixon L. Walters, who was shot down over Kuwait on 31 Jan 1991. The 128th Airborne Command and Control Squadron has flown more than 82,000 combat hours in support of Operation Enduring Freedom, Operation Iraqi Freedom, Operation New Dawn Operation Odyssey Dawn, and Operation Unified Protector.
Georgia deploys 3D printers, Guard units in testing scramble. [SEP] Georgian Armed Forces // DELTA started to work on the development of ballistic equipment using their own ingredients. The advanced research unit had successfully developed a variety of personal protection gear, such as bomb disposal suits and level I-IV body armour using classified mixtures of domestic resource. But these projects never went beyond some prototypes, mainly due to poor attention and financing from the government. With foreign support primarily from the United States since 2005, Georgia became able to start building a solid industrial base for the military. From 2001 to 2007, Delta experimented with unmanned aerial vehicles and modified parts for helicopters and
Georgia deploys 3D printers, Guard units in testing scramble. [SEP] Georgia Department of Defense // officials across the state. The Guard's Quick Reaction Force (QRF) provides force protection and security for WMD Civil Support Teams and CBRNE Enhanced Response Force Package Teams. The QRF comprises 132 personnel who are capable of responding within eight hours, and 500 personnel who can respond within 24 hours. The Georgia National Guard runs the state and federally funded Youth ChalleNGe Academy (YCA) program. The stated purpose of the Youth ChalleNGe Academy is to provide "at-risk" youth with academic and life skills training aimed at improving employment potential and creating productive citizens. Each young person that enrolls is matched with
Georgia deploys 3D printers, Guard units in testing scramble. [SEP] Governor's Guards (Florida) // 9/11 attacks and set up security at the armory and Tallahassee airport. Company A was mobilized just prior to Christmas 2002 and moved up to Fort Stewart, GA for training. The battalion deployed to Kuwait in January and were part of the initial invasion of Iraq. They were attached to 108th Air Defense Artillery Brigade, 3rd Infantry Division, and 1st Marine Division during the invasion. When 3rd ID left, 3-124 Infantry was attached to 1st Armored Division. The battalion was assigned to downtown Baghdad and redeployed in 2004. In 2006-07 the Army made its reorganizations among brigades to transform them
Patients push limits for clues to chronic fatigue syndrome. [SEP] Chronic fatigue syndrome // guidance can be found at the New York Department of Health. Certain medical conditions can cause chronic fatigue and must be ruled out before a diagnosis of CFS can be given. Hypothyroidism, anemia, coeliac disease (that can occur without gastrointestinal symptoms), diabetes and certain psychiatric disorders are a few of the diseases that must be ruled out if the patient presents with appropriate symptoms. Other diseases, listed by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, include infectious diseases (such as Epstein–Barr virus, influenza, HIV infection, tuberculosis, Lyme disease), neuroendocrine diseases (such as thyroiditis, Addison's disease, adrenal insufficiency, Cushing's disease), hematologic
Patients push limits for clues to chronic fatigue syndrome. [SEP] Clinical descriptions of chronic fatigue syndrome // underlying or contributing conditions that require treatment. The use of tests for diagnosing chronic fatigue syndrome should only be done in the context of protocol-based research. The following routine tests are recommended: The 2007 NICE guideline includes, in addition to panel recommended by the CDC, tests for C-reactive protein (a marker of inflammation), creatine kinase (a muscle-related enzyme), plasma viscosity (optional if ESR done) and serology for celiac disease. Ferritin determination may be performed in children and young people, and in adults only if other tests suggest iron deficiency. The guideline recommends clinical judgment in decisions to perform other tests
Patients push limits for clues to chronic fatigue syndrome. [SEP] Clinical descriptions of chronic fatigue syndrome // difficulties, sleep disturbance, chronic pain. The guideline requires fatigue to have been present for 4 months in an adult or 3 months in a child. It expects a diagnosis in a child to be made by a pediatrician. The guideline states that a referral to a CFS/ME specialist should be offered immediately to the severely ill. There is no generally accepted diagnostic test to reliably diagnose or exclude chronic fatigue syndrome. The 1994 CDC criteria states diagnostic tests should be directed to confirm or exclude other causes for fatigue and other symptoms. Further tests may be individually necessary to identify
Patients push limits for clues to chronic fatigue syndrome. [SEP] Clinical descriptions of chronic fatigue syndrome // Syndrome Study Group", led by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. These criteria are sometimes called the "Fukuda definition" after the first author (Keiji Fukuda) of the publication. The 1994 CDC criteria specify the following conditions must be met: Clinically evaluated, unexplained, persistent or relapsing chronic fatigue that is: The concurrent occurrence of four or more of the following symptoms, all of which must have persisted or recurred during six or more consecutive months of illness and must not have predated the fatigue: All other known causes of chronic fatigue must have been ruled out, specifically clinical depression, side
Patients push limits for clues to chronic fatigue syndrome. [SEP] Clinical descriptions of chronic fatigue syndrome // in 2009. These have been cited in articles and are currently being evaluated, for example, in studies to ascertain differences between patients selected using different case definitions. Developed by a group of 26 individuals from 13 countries and consisting of clinicians, researchers, teaching faculty and an independent patient advocate. Based on the 2003 "Canadian" definition by Carruthers et al., chronic fatigue is no longer required and the six-month waiting period before diagnosis has been dropped. The main symptom is "post-exertional neuroimmune exhaustion" (PENE) i.e. low stamina, rapid fatigability, symptom exacerbation, and variable onset with prolonged recovery; which is also accompanied
Patients push limits for clues to chronic fatigue syndrome. [SEP] Clinical descriptions of chronic fatigue syndrome // in addition to the standard set. Testing for infections (e.g. Lyme disease, viral hepatitis, HIV, mononucleosis, toxoplasmosis or cytomegalovirus) is only recommended if the patient gives a specific history for this. The NICE guideline discourages routine performance of the head-up tilt test, auditory brainstem response and electrodermal conductivity for the purpose of diagnosis. The National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) in England and Wales states that none of the existing case definitions are based on robust evidence, and no studies have confirmed any case definition to be superior to others. Some researchers say that subtypes of CFS may
Patients push limits for clues to chronic fatigue syndrome. [SEP] Clinical descriptions of chronic fatigue syndrome // effects of medication, eating disorders and substance abuse. The clinical evaluation should include: Other diagnostic tests have no recognized value unless indicated on an individual basis to confirm or exclude a differential diagnosis, such as multiple sclerosis. The initial chronic fatigue syndrome definition was published in 1988. It is also called the "Holmes definition", after the manuscript's first author. Unlike the 1994 CDC criteria, the Holmes criteria exclude patients with psychiatric diagnoses and require the presence of eight secondary symptoms, not just four. The "Oxford criteria" was published in 1991 and include both CFS of unknown etiology and a subtype
Patients push limits for clues to chronic fatigue syndrome. [SEP] Controversies related to chronic fatigue syndrome // of 1,500 US primary care providers showed that 90 percent believed CFS can impair quality of life, 20 percent strongly or somewhat agreed that CFS is only in the patient’s head, and 70 percent said not enough information is available to diagnose CFS. A 2008 Norwegian study that explored barriers quality care from experiences by patients suffering from chronic fatigue syndrome concluded, "current medical skepticism and ignorance regarding CFS shapes the context of medical care and the illness experiences of CFS patients, who may feel they neither get a proper assessment nor management." Education of care providers is a proposed
Patients push limits for clues to chronic fatigue syndrome. [SEP] Chronic fatigue syndrome treatment // of the Belgian government of over 800 CFS patients treated in four reference centers which tested CBT and GET in a clinical setting concluded that although patient motivation for treatment seemed to be high and that in 71% the supervising team considered the patient to have reached their maximal capacity, "No patient had been cured. Therapy provided systematically included CBT and GET. After treatment duration of 41 to 62 hours of rehabilitation per patient of which 83% group based, spread over 6 to 12 months, patients’ subjective feelings of fatigue were improved, but results concerning quality of life were equivocal.
Patients push limits for clues to chronic fatigue syndrome. [SEP] Clinical descriptions of chronic fatigue syndrome // hundred patients found that the diagnosis could be strengthened by adding two new symptoms (anorexia and nausea) and eliminating three others (muscle weakness, joint pain, sleep disturbance). Other suggested improvements to the diagnostic criteria include the use of severity ratings. A new "empirical definition" of the CDC 1994 criteria was published in 2005. A 2009 evaluation of the 2005 empirical definition compared 27 patients with a prior diagnosis of CFS with 37 patients diagnosed with a Major Depressive Disorder. The researchers reported that "38% of those with a diagnosis of a Major Depressive Disorder were misclassified as having CFS using
Mississippi chicken plant Koch Foods, which was raided by ICE in August 2019, was the subject of a previous lawsuit brought by workers and was subsequently ordered to pay a settlement. [SEP] United Food and Commercial Workers // the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Texas— named the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and the Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) agency as defendants. The suit came as a response to ICE's Swift raids of December 12, 2006 at six meat packing plants across the United States. The UFCW represents workers at five of the plants including Worthington, Minn.; Greeley, Colo.; Cactus, Tex.; Marshalltown, Ia.; and Grand Island, Neb. UFCW's two lawsuits related to the raids were both dismissed. On October 11, 2003, the UFCW declared a strike on Vons (owned by Safeway Inc.), in Southern
Mississippi chicken plant Koch Foods, which was raided by ICE in August 2019, was the subject of a previous lawsuit brought by workers and was subsequently ordered to pay a settlement. [SEP] Orthodox Union // response to the scandal, the OU implemented several new initiatives to better protect children under their care. In May 2008, the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), together with other Federal agencies, raided a kosher slaughterhouse and meat packing plant in Postville, Iowa, owned by Agriprocessors, Inc. At the time the OU provided kosher certification services to the plant. The raid was the largest single raid of a workplace in U.S. history and resulted in nearly 400 arrests of immigrant workers with false identity papers, many of whom were charged with identity theft, document fraud, use of stolen social security
Mississippi chicken plant Koch Foods, which was raided by ICE in August 2019, was the subject of a previous lawsuit brought by workers and was subsequently ordered to pay a settlement. [SEP] Koch Foods // poultry processor that deals in fresh and frozen offerings. The company does business under the Koch Foods, Antioch Farms, Preferred Foods, and Rogers Royal brands. It also has private labels products. The company has facilities in the following cities: Chicago; Ashland, Alabama; Gadsden, Alabama; Montgomery, Alabama; Sylacauga, Alabama; Forest, Mississippi; McComb, Mississippi; Morton, Mississippi; Morristown, Tennessee. Koch Foods Koch Foods is a food processor and distributor in Park Ridge, Illinois that is listed by Forbes Magazine as number 163 on the list of the largest private companies in the US. As of October 2014, the company had a revenue of
Mississippi chicken plant Koch Foods, which was raided by ICE in August 2019, was the subject of a previous lawsuit brought by workers and was subsequently ordered to pay a settlement. [SEP] Foster Farms // and went back to work at the end of October 1997. In 1998, Foster Poultry Farms pleaded guilty in the United States District Court to a violation of the federal Clean Water Act. The company had dumped 11 million gallons of chicken-manure-polluted water into the San Luis National Wildlife Refuge. During 2003-2006, workers at the Livingston plant changed their union representation from the United Food and Commercial Workers Union's Local 1288 to the League of Independent Workers of the San Joaquin Valley, which affiliated with the International Association of Machinists. During this process, the workers decertified the UFCW, formed the
Mississippi chicken plant Koch Foods, which was raided by ICE in August 2019, was the subject of a previous lawsuit brought by workers and was subsequently ordered to pay a settlement. [SEP] Aaron Rubashkin // owned by Rubashkin and managed by two of his sons and a son-in-law. The distribution centers in Brooklyn and Miami, Florida, were run by one of his daughters and another of his sons. "Agriprocessors" faced several accusations of mistreatment of cattle between 2004 and 2008, was fined $600,000 for violating waste-water regulations in 2006, and $9.99 million for various violations of state labor law in October 2008, including illegally deducting money from employees for safety equipment and failing to pay employees. When the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) had staged a raid at the Postville plant in May 2008,
Mississippi chicken plant Koch Foods, which was raided by ICE in August 2019, was the subject of a previous lawsuit brought by workers and was subsequently ordered to pay a settlement. [SEP] Agriprocessors // meat-packing plant in the United States. Agriprocessors faced accusations of mistreatment of cattle, pollution, and a series of alleged violations of labor law. In May 2008, the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) staged a raid of the plant, and arrested nearly 400 illegal immigrant workers. Agriprocessors plants stopped operating in October 2008, and the firm filed for bankruptcy on November 5 of the same year. Sholom Rubashkin as the highest ranking day-to-day corporate officer was charged with federal financial fraud and sentenced to 27 years in prison in June 2010. The Agriprocessors plant was bought at auction in July
Mississippi chicken plant Koch Foods, which was raided by ICE in August 2019, was the subject of a previous lawsuit brought by workers and was subsequently ordered to pay a settlement. [SEP] Tyson Foods // would step down at the end of the year and would be succeeded by company president Tom Hayes. Tyson has been involved in several lawsuits related to air and water pollution. In June 2003, the company admitted to illegally dumping untreated wastewater from its poultry processing plant near Sedalia, Missouri, pleading guilty to 20 felony violations of the federal Clean Water Act. As part of the plea agreement, the company agreed to pay $7.5 million in fines, hire an outside consultant to perform an environmental audit, and institute an "enhanced environmental management system" at the Sedalia plant. At the same
Mississippi chicken plant Koch Foods, which was raided by ICE in August 2019, was the subject of a previous lawsuit brought by workers and was subsequently ordered to pay a settlement. [SEP] Tyson Foods // million settlement fee to the city of Tulsa, Oklahoma, to settle charges that the use of chicken waste as fertilizer had created phosphorus pollution in Tulsa's main drinking water sources. In 2001, Tyson was charged with conspiracy to smuggle undocumented workers to work on its production lines. Tyson plant managers arranged for delivery of illegal workers with undercover immigration officials. Prosecutors alleged that the conspiracy to import workers dates back to 1994 when plant managers began to find it difficult to fill positions with "cheap legal help". Of the six managers who were indicted, two accepted plea bargain deals, and
Mississippi chicken plant Koch Foods, which was raided by ICE in August 2019, was the subject of a previous lawsuit brought by workers and was subsequently ordered to pay a settlement. [SEP] Koch Industries // and was ordered to serve three years of probation. In September 2000, a federal grand jury returned a 97-count indictment against Koch Industries and four individual employees for environmental crimes relating to alleged violations of the Clean Air Act and the measurement and control of benzene emissions from the West Plant in Corpus Christi, Texas. A superseding indictment followed in January 2001. In April 2001, Koch pleaded guilty to one count, related to wastewater reporting it had self-reported to the government in 1995, according to the company. Koch Industries was fined $20 million, of which $10 million was a criminal
Mississippi chicken plant Koch Foods, which was raided by ICE in August 2019, was the subject of a previous lawsuit brought by workers and was subsequently ordered to pay a settlement. [SEP] Dixie Lee Fried Chicken // Ontario area, Mrs. Struik is now in charge of eight units in the area. The Dixie Lee units affected by the court order were: Dixie Lee Spanish, Dixie Lee Garson, Dixie Lee Penetanguishene, Dixie Lee Bancroft and Dixie Lee Barry's Bay. Mrs. Struik was forced to seek the help of the legal system, when, on November 5, 2012, she received communication from the president and owner of Dixie Lee Food System, Mr. Murano, stating that he had suspended the payments due to her under their 2011 Settlement agreement. Mrs. Struik had sold her area-franchise interest in the Northern Ontario area
Winston Churchill was born in a ladies' room during a dance. [SEP] Robin Friday // pubs closed, Friday and a friend, Rod Lewington, went to an all-night club called Churchill's where they could continue drinking. When they entered, Friday, wearing a long overcoat and hobnail boots, walked onto the dancefloor and removed the coat to reveal that he was wearing nothing underneath. He then began to dance, completely naked apart from the boots. Although Churchill's, described by Lewington as "the worst club that has ever been in Reading", tolerated such behaviour, the town's fashionable Sindlesham Mill nightclub did not, regularly barring Friday for his bizarre activities, including a dance he invented called "the elephant" which
Winston Churchill was born in a ladies' room during a dance. [SEP] Jim Churchill // of the hostesses, I employed thirty boys, one of them the late Rudolph Valentino, to dance with women who came unescorted for luncheon"". In January 1930, he and his family visited Atlantic City, New Jersey. While staying at the "Hotel Traymore", he died from a severe attack of bronchial pneumonia on January 19, 1930. His wife Anna and his three daughters were with him at the time of his death and afterwards brought him back to New York for burial. Jim Churchill James Churchill (1863 – January 19, 1930) was an American businessman, restaurateur and NYPD police captain. He was
Winston Churchill was born in a ladies' room during a dance. [SEP] Clarissa Eden // at Court. Another débutante of 1938, Deborah Mitford, later Duchess of Devonshire, recalled Clarissa Spencer-Churchill as exhibiting "more than a whiff of Garbo in a dress by Maggy Rouff of Paris". Among those with whom Clarissa danced at that year's Liberal Ball was the future double agent Donald Maclean, who complained that she was too smart to be "a proper Liberal girl like the Bonham-Carters or the Asquiths". She also knew Guy Burgess, who fled to Russia in 1951 when he and Maclean were about to be unmasked as traitors. A 2015 biography of Burgess, a homosexual, contained claims that,
Winston Churchill was born in a ladies' room during a dance. [SEP] Randolph Churchill // delivering an impromptu five-minute reply to a tedious speech by a local cleric. At San Simeon (the mansion of press baron Randolph Hearst) he lost his virginity to the Hungarian dancer Tilly Losch. Randolph was already drinking double brandies at the age of eighteen, to his parents' consternation. He did little work or sport at Oxford and spent most of his time at lengthy lunch and dinner parties with other well-connected undergraduates and with dons who enjoyed being entertained by them. Randolph later claimed that he had benefited from the experience, but at the time his lifestyle earned him a
Winston Churchill was born in a ladies' room during a dance. [SEP] Chartwell // gift from Lord Alexander of Tunis. The study also contains portraits of Churchill's parents, Lord Randolph Churchill and Lady Randolph Churchill, the latter by John Singer Sargent. The floor is covered with a Khorassan carpet, a 69th birthday gift to Churchill from the Shah of Iran at the Teheran Conference in 1943. Beyond the study are Churchill's bedroom and his ensuite bathroom, with sunken bath. At the time of the house's opening to the public in 1966, these rooms were not made accessible, at the request of Churchill's family but, shortly before her death in 2014, Churchill's daughter Mary gave
Winston Churchill was born in a ladies' room during a dance. [SEP] Randolph Churchill // went an explosion seemed to follow. With a natural and brilliant gift of oratory, and a disregard for the opinions of his elders, he often held dinner parties pinned in a helpless and angry silence. I never knew a young man who had the ability to antagonise so easily." At a dinner at Blenheim for Lady Sarah Spencer-Churchill's 18th birthday in July 1939 a drunk Randolph had to be removed after behaving badly to a woman who spurned his advances and starting a row with another man over Winston's reputation. Randolph Churchill joined his father's old regiment, the 4th Queen's
Winston Churchill was born in a ladies' room during a dance. [SEP] Blenheim Palace // the bow room corresponds exactly to the saloon in terms of its importance to the two smaller suites. Blenheim Palace was the birthplace of the 1st Duke's famous descendant, Winston Churchill, whose life and times are commemorated by a permanent exhibition in the suite of rooms in which he was born "(marked "K" on the plan)". Blenheim Palace was designed with all its principal and secondary rooms on the "piano nobile", thus there is no great staircase of state: anyone worthy of such state would have no cause to leave the "piano nobile". Insofar as Blenheim does have a grand
Winston Churchill was born in a ladies' room during a dance. [SEP] Hyatt Regency London – The Churchill // Churchill Hotel has twelve function rooms on the ground and first floors, including a ballroom, boardrooms and meeting rooms – room names refer to the life and historical background of Sir Winston Churchill. The Chartwell Suite, the main ballroom, named after Sir Winston Churchill's private home Chartwell, in Kent, is the largest of the hotel's function rooms. In 2008 the Suite hosted the 180th Anniversary of "The Spectator" magazine soon after its former editor Boris Johnson became Mayor of London. Guests attending the function included Joan Collins, Stanley Johnson, Andrew Neil and David Cameron. Since 2008 The Churchill has been
Winston Churchill was born in a ladies' room during a dance. [SEP] Montagu Porch // poor Porchy who are paying off her debts." A Roman Catholic, in 1926 Porch married secondly Donna Giulia Patrizi, the only daughter of the Marchese Patrizi della Rocco, and lived in Italy until she died in 1938. He then returned to Glastonbury where he died in November 1964, aged 87. Until the end, he avoided all discussion of his life with his first wife. Montagu Porch Montagu Phippen Porch (15 March 1877 - 8 November 1964) was a British colonial officer who in 1918 became Winston Churchill's stepfather, although three years his junior. Porch was born on 15 March 1877
Winston Churchill was born in a ladies' room during a dance. [SEP] Sarah Churchill (actress) // St Martin's Church, Bladon, near Woodstock, Oxfordshire. Sarah Churchill (actress) Sarah Millicent Hermione Touchet-Jesson, Baroness Audley (7 October 1914 – 24 September 1982), was a British actress and dancer. Sarah Churchill was born in London, the second daughter of Winston Churchill, later Prime Minister from 1940 to 1945 and again from 1951 to 1955, and Clementine Churchill, later Baroness Spencer-Churchill; she was the third of the couple's five children and was named after Sir Winston's ancestor, Sarah Churchill, Duchess of Marlborough. She was educated at Notting Hill High School as a day girl and later at North Foreland Lodge as
Jordan's King Abdullah II murdered his wife, Queen Rania. [SEP] Women in Jordan // masculinity in Jordan will be challenged, decreasing inequalities between men and women. While only 6% of parliamentary seats are held by women, the Queen of Jordan has used her position and subsequent power to actively support the women's rights. Rania has been Queen since 1999 and is married to King ʿAbdullah II. Her family is of Palestinian descent (her father was from Ṭūlkarm, her mother from Nablus) and was born and raised in Kuwait. Rania is highly educated; she has a business administration degree from the American University in Cairo (1991) and before marrying King Abdullah II in January 1993,
Jordan's King Abdullah II murdered his wife, Queen Rania. [SEP] Queen Rania of Jordan // Queen Rania of Jordan Rania Al-Abdullah (, ; born Rania Al-Yassin on 31 August 1970) is the queen consort of Jordan. Born in Kuwait to a Palestinian family, she later moved to Jordan for work, where she met the then prince Abdullah. Since marrying the now King of Jordan in 1993, she has become known for her advocacy work related to education, health, community empowerment, youth, cross-cultural dialogue and micro-finance. She is also an avid user of social media and she maintains pages on Facebook, YouTube, Instagram and Twitter. She has two daughters and two sons and has been awarded
Jordan's King Abdullah II murdered his wife, Queen Rania. [SEP] Abdullah II of Jordan // God, give him advice and take care of him." Abdullah's investiture took place on 9 June 1999. A reception at Raghadan Palace attended by 800 dignitaries followed a motorcade ride through Amman by the 37-year old king and his 29-year old wife, Rania—the then youngest queen in the world. Although Jordan is a constitutional monarchy, the king retains wide executive and legislative powers; he is head of state and commander-in-chief of the Jordanian Armed Forces and appoints the prime minister and the directors of security agencies. The prime minister is free to choose his cabinet. The Parliament of Jordan consists
Jordan's King Abdullah II murdered his wife, Queen Rania. [SEP] Abdullah I of Jordan // three co-conspirators from Jerusalem, were sentenced to death. On 6 September 1951, Musa Ali Husseini, 'Abid and Zakariyya Ukah, and Abd-el-Qadir Farhat were executed by hanging. Abdullah is buried at the Royal Court in Amman. He was succeeded by his son Talal; however, since Talal was mentally ill, Talal's son Prince Hussein became the effective ruler as King Hussein at the age of seventeen. In 1967, el-Tell received a full pardon from King Hussein. Abdullah married three times. In 1904, Abdullah married his first wife, Musbah bint Nasser (1884 – 15 March 1961), at Stinia Palace, İstinye, Istanbul, Ottoman Empire.
Jordan's King Abdullah II murdered his wife, Queen Rania. [SEP] Rana Hussein // Hussein Kamel al-Majid. Despite this promise, before the end of the month, both Kamels were shot and killed by other clan members who declared them traitors. In 1997, her brother Uday Hussein put Rana and her sister Raghad under house arrest for being involved in a plot to assassinate him. On July 31, 2003, she went back to Jordan, where the king, Abdullah, granted her family asylum. Rana Hussein Rana Saddam Hussein (Arabic :رنا صدام حسين) (born 1969) is the second-eldest daughter of the former President of Iraq, Saddam Hussein and his first wife, Sajida Talfah. Her older sister is
Jordan's King Abdullah II murdered his wife, Queen Rania. [SEP] Queen Rania of Jordan // July 2017, Queen Rania has about 7 million followers. Queen Rania of Jordan Rania Al-Abdullah (, ; born Rania Al-Yassin on 31 August 1970) is the queen consort of Jordan. Born in Kuwait to a Palestinian family, she later moved to Jordan for work, where she met the then prince Abdullah. Since marrying the now King of Jordan in 1993, she has become known for her advocacy work related to education, health, community empowerment, youth, cross-cultural dialogue and micro-finance. She is also an avid user of social media and she maintains pages on Facebook, YouTube, Instagram and Twitter. She has
Jordan's King Abdullah II murdered his wife, Queen Rania. [SEP] Queen Rania of Jordan // and cultural taboos. This led to the launch, in 1998, of JRF’s Child Safety Program, which addresses the immediate needs of children at risk from abuse and initiated a long-term campaign to increase public awareness about violence against children. The deaths of two children in Amman as a result of child abuse in early 2009 led Queen Rania to call for an emergency meeting of government and non-government (including JRF) stakeholders to discuss where the system was failing. In 2009, to celebrate the 10th anniversary of her husband's accession to the throne, Queen Rania launched a community champion award (Ahel
Jordan's King Abdullah II murdered his wife, Queen Rania. [SEP] Queen Rania of Jordan // queen on 22 March 1999. Without the proclamation she would have been a princess consort, like her mother-in-law, Princess Muna al-Hussein. Since her marriage, Queen Rania has used her position to advocate for various sectors of society in Jordan and beyond. Over the past few years, Queen Rania has launched, championed, and given patronage to several initiatives in education and learning. In July 2005, in partnership with the Ministry of Education, the King and Queen launched an annual teachers’ award, the Queen Rania Award for Excellence in Education. The Queen is Chairperson of Jordan's first interactive children's museum. Opened in
Jordan's King Abdullah II murdered his wife, Queen Rania. [SEP] Women in Jordan // the Queen Alia International Airport". The husband easily confessed to murdering his wife in order to defend his honor, as she had been out meeting a male friend without his permission. "There are about 12 honor crime cases every year in Jordan," said Diana Shalabi, director of the complaint office at the Jordanian National Commission for Women. "However," she said, "many crimes involving women are seen as honor killings and should be called regular crimes instead." Women in Jordan Throughout history, women in Jordans political, social and economic status has varied based on the legal, traditional, cultural and religious values
Jordan's King Abdullah II murdered his wife, Queen Rania. [SEP] Talal of Jordan // of his father, Abdullah I, in Jerusalem. His son, Hussein, who was accompanying his grandfather at Friday prayers was also a near victim. On 20 July 1951, Prince Hussein travelled to Jerusalem to perform Friday prayers at the Al-Aqsa Mosque with his grandfather, King Abdullah I. An assassin fearing that the king might normalise relations with the State of Israel, killed Abdullah, but the 15-year-old Hussein survived. During his short reign he was responsible for the formation of a liberalised constitution for the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, which made the government collectively, and the ministers individually, responsible before the Jordanian
Indonesia says avoid coast near volcano, fearing new tsunami. [SEP] 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake and tsunami // coastal areas to evacuate ahead of the tsunami was on the Indonesian island of Simeulue, close to the epicentre. Island folklore recounted an earthquake and tsunami in 1907, and the islanders fled to inland hills after the initial shaking and before the tsunami struck. These tales and oral folklore from previous generations may have helped the survival of the inhabitants. On Maikhao Beach in north Phuket City, Thailand, a 10-year-old British tourist named Tilly Smith had studied tsunamis in geography at school and recognised the warning signs of the receding ocean and frothing bubbles. She and her parents warned others
Indonesia says avoid coast near volcano, fearing new tsunami. [SEP] 2006 Pangandaran earthquake and tsunami // many buildings that were totally destroyed. Witnesses reported that waves were breaking several hundred meters inland at that location. Officials in Indonesia received information regarding the tsunami in the form of bulletins from the Pacific Tsunami Warning Center and the Japan Meteorological Agency, but wanted to avoid panic, and did not attempt to disseminate the advisories to the public. Virtually no time was available to make that sort of effort (had the intention been to communicate the danger with the public) because some community leaders were sent text messages with pertinent information only minutes prior to the arrival of the
Indonesia says avoid coast near volcano, fearing new tsunami. [SEP] Mount Sinabung // coatings, a centimetre thick, on buildings and trees. Electricity in one village was cut off, but there were no casualties. The Indonesian government was reported to have evacuated around 17,500 people from the region on and around the volcano. The government issued the highest-level warning for the area, which was expected to remain in force for around a week, since scientists were unfamiliar with the characteristics of the volcano, due to it having been dormant for so long. The government also set up kitchens for refugees to have access to food and handed out 7,000 masks. Over 10,000 people have
Indonesia says avoid coast near volcano, fearing new tsunami. [SEP] Raung // residents within a 3 km radius of the caldera, and causing disruption to flights in and out of nearby Bali. According to Landsat images in early July 2015, there is a new lava pool on the mountain, giving the volcano two lava pools, including an older pool. This will likely delay the full eruption of the volcano for a short while. Currently the caldera is still sufficient to keep the lava inside. From July 9, 2015, several airports throughout Indonesia—including on the popular holiday island of Bali and in Surabaya during Idul Fitri—were closed due to the ash being produced
Indonesia says avoid coast near volcano, fearing new tsunami. [SEP] 2006 Pangandaran earthquake and tsunami // and, although a tsunami watch was posted by an American tsunami warning center and a Japanese meteorological center, no information was delivered to people at the coast. The island of Java is the most densely populated island on Earth, and is vulnerable to both large earthquakes and volcanic eruptions, due to its location near the Sunda Trench, a convergent plate boundary where the Australian tectonic plate is subducting beneath Indonesia. Three great earthquakes occurred in the span of three years to the northwest on the Sumatra portion of the trench. The 2004 M9.15 Sumatra–Andaman, the 2005 M8.7 Nias–Simeulue, and the
Indonesia says avoid coast near volcano, fearing new tsunami. [SEP] 2010 eruptions of Mount Merapi // of the mountain's slopes was much more rapid this during the current event than that observed during the 2006 event. On 26 October the head of the Indonesian Center for Volcanology and Geological Hazard Mitigation, Surono, repeated his earlier statements that the greatest concern was the pressure building behind a massive lava dome that has formed near the tip of the crater. "The energy is building up. ... We hope it will release slowly," he said. "Otherwise we're looking at a potentially huge eruption, bigger than anything we've seen in years". Surono also said that said the distension of the
Indonesia says avoid coast near volcano, fearing new tsunami. [SEP] Sidoarjo mud flow // on Java after the earthquake and the main drilling site is away from the earthquake's epicenter. The intensity of the earthquake at the drilling site was estimated to have been only magnitude 2 on Richter scale, the same effect as a heavy truck passing over the area. In June 2008, a report released by British, American, Indonesian, and Australian scientists, concluded that the volcano was not a natural disaster, but the result of oil and gas drilling. On June 5, 2006, MedcoEnergi (one partner company in the Brantas PSC area) sent a letter to PT Lapindo Brantas accusing them of
Indonesia says avoid coast near volcano, fearing new tsunami. [SEP] 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake and tsunami // m (98.4 ft) was estimated on the subfault off the west coast of Aceh Province. Another factor is subsidence at Banda Aceh (20–60 cm), Peukan Bada (>20 cm), Lhoknga and Leupung (>1.5 m). Other towns on Aceh's west coast hit by the disaster included Leupung, Lhokruet, Lamno, Patek, Calang, Teunom, and the island of Simeulue. Affected or destroyed towns on the region's north and east coast were Pidie Regency, Samalanga, Panteraja, and Lhokseumawe. The high fatality rate in the area was mainly due to unpreparedness. Helicopter surveys showed entire settlements virtually destroyed with destruction miles inland with only some mosques
Indonesia says avoid coast near volcano, fearing new tsunami. [SEP] 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake and tsunami // around the coastlines of Aceh province, Phuket island, and Khao Lak area in Thailand, Penang island of Malaysia, and the Andaman and Nicobar islands. Around the Indian Ocean, this rare sight reportedly induced people, especially children, to visit the coast to investigate and collect stranded fish on as much as 2.5 km (1.6 mi) of exposed beach, with fatal results. However, not all tsunamis cause this "disappearing sea" effect. In some cases, there are no warning signs at all: the sea will suddenly swell without retreating, surprising many people and giving them little time to flee. One of the few
Indonesia says avoid coast near volcano, fearing new tsunami. [SEP] 2012 Indian Ocean earthquakes // the earthquake, the Indian National Centre for Ocean Information Services (INCOIS) issued a high-level tsunami warning for the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. Authorities told civilians to move away from the coast and towards higher ground. Areas subject to warnings included Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and the Union Territory of Andaman and Nicobar Islands. Prabkhakar Rao of the disaster control room in Port Blair said that there could be tsunamis as high as at Port Blair and at Campbell Bay. In Kolkata, underground Metro Railways services were stopped and tall office buildings and shopping malls were evacuated. Navy warships were put
Michael Kors uses fur from dogs that were skinned alive in manufacturing the brand's products. [SEP] Michael Kors (brand) // stores and 133 licensed stores. Since 2017, the company said that it would no longer use animal fur in any of its products. In 2018, Michael Kors announced two new stores, one in Waterloo, New York, as well as the Fairview Park Mall in Kitchener, Ontario. In July 2017, MKH Ltd bought Jimmy Choo Ltd for £896 million. In September 2018 MKH Ltd announced a deal to take over Versace. The Italian fashion group is valued at $2.1 billion. Upon closing of the deal, the company will be renamed to Capri Holdings. In Canada, there had been multiple counterfeit Michael
Michael Kors uses fur from dogs that were skinned alive in manufacturing the brand's products. [SEP] Humane Society of the United States // and skinned alive. The story of fur animals beaten to death and skinned alive is disputed by a fur industry trade group. The investigation reportedly prompted several retailers including Macy's and J.C. Penney to pull the garments from the sale floor. Legislation was introduced in the U.S. Congress to require that all fur jackets be properly labeled, and to ban raccoon dog fur. In 2014, HSUS accused Kohl's department store of selling a men's jacket made with real animal fur as "faux", and issued a warning to consumers. In February 2008, after an undercover investigation conducted by HSUS at the
Michael Kors uses fur from dogs that were skinned alive in manufacturing the brand's products. [SEP] Michael Kors (brand) // Kors bags, wallets and other luxury items in Montreal, Quebec. In an attempt to end the counterfeit production and to enforce trademark rights, the brand has commenced actions against a major network of counterfeit suppliers and vendors, and raided multiple locations throughout the Greater Montreal Area. Michael Kors (brand) Michael Kors Holdings Limited is a multinational fashion company, incorporated in the British Virgin Islands, with principal executive offices in London and operational headquarters in New York. It was started in 1981 by American designer Michael Kors. The company sells clothes, shoes, watches, handbags, and other accessories. Michael Kors handbags have
Michael Kors uses fur from dogs that were skinned alive in manufacturing the brand's products. [SEP] Michael Kors (brand) // Michael Kors (brand) Michael Kors Holdings Limited is a multinational fashion company, incorporated in the British Virgin Islands, with principal executive offices in London and operational headquarters in New York. It was started in 1981 by American designer Michael Kors. The company sells clothes, shoes, watches, handbags, and other accessories. Michael Kors handbags have been a popular fashion trend among teenaged girls, according to a 2015 survey. In 2015, Michael Kors had more than 550 stores and over 1500 in-store boutiques in various countries. Founder Michael Kors enrolled at the Fashion Institute of Technology in New York City in 1977,
Michael Kors uses fur from dogs that were skinned alive in manufacturing the brand's products. [SEP] Michael Kors // Michael Kors Michael David Kors (born Karl Anderson Jr.; August 9, 1959) is an American sportswear fashion designer. He is the honorary chairman and chief creative officer for his company, Michael Kors Holdings Limited (), which sells men's and women's and ready-to-wear, accessories, watches, jewelry, footwear and fragrance. Kors was the first women's ready-to-wear designer for the French house Celine, from 1997 to 2003. Kors was born as Karl Anderson Jr. on Long Island. Kors' mother is Jewish; his father was of Swedish descent. His parents are Joan Hamburger, a former model, and her first husband, Karl Anderson Sr., a
Michael Kors uses fur from dogs that were skinned alive in manufacturing the brand's products. [SEP] Michael Kors // Kors, forced him to put the KORS line on hold. He got back on his feet by 1997 and launched a lower priced line and at the same time was named the first women's ready-to-wear designer for French house Celine. In his tenure at Celine, Kors turned the fashion house around with successful accessories and a critically acclaimed ready-to-wear line. Kors left Celine in October 2003 to concentrate on his own brand. Kors launched his menswear line in 2002. The MICHAEL Michael Kors line was launched in 2004, joining the original Michael Kors Collection label. The MICHAEL Michael Kors line
Michael Kors uses fur from dogs that were skinned alive in manufacturing the brand's products. [SEP] Michael Kors (brand) // closure of the licensing partner for KORS Michael Kors. Putting the KORS line on hold, he designed for other labels before relaunching in 1997 with a lower-priced line, and in the same year was named the first women's ready-to-wear designer for French house Celine. In 2002, Kors launched his menswear line. Kors left Celine in October 2003 to concentrate on his own brand via holding company Michael Kors Holdings Ltd (MKH Ltd), relaunched with a majority $100M investment form Canadian fashion investor Lawrence Stroll and his Hong Kong-based partner Silas Chou, who had previously purchased Tommy Hilfiger in 1989. John
Michael Kors uses fur from dogs that were skinned alive in manufacturing the brand's products. [SEP] Michael Kors // Additionally, Kors guest starred as himself in a Fashion Week themed episode of the hit teen show "Gossip Girl"; the same show that repeatedly showcases several pieces from his collections. Michael Kors Michael David Kors (born Karl Anderson Jr.; August 9, 1959) is an American sportswear fashion designer. He is the honorary chairman and chief creative officer for his company, Michael Kors Holdings Limited (), which sells men's and women's and ready-to-wear, accessories, watches, jewelry, footwear and fragrance. Kors was the first women's ready-to-wear designer for the French house Celine, from 1997 to 2003. Kors was born as Karl Anderson
Michael Kors uses fur from dogs that were skinned alive in manufacturing the brand's products. [SEP] Michael Kors // job at a boutique called Lothar's across from Bergdorf Goodman on 57th Street in Midtown Manhattan, where he started as a salesperson and went on to become both the designer and visual display head for the store. Shortly after, Dawn Mello, the fashion director at Bergdorf's, discovered Kors. She asked if he would show his collection to Bergdorf Goodman's buyers. In 1981, Kors launched his Michael Kors women's label at Bergdorf Goodman. In 1990, the company launched KORS Michael Kors as a licensee. A Chapter 11 filing in 1993, caused by the closure of the licensing partner for KORS Michael
Michael Kors uses fur from dogs that were skinned alive in manufacturing the brand's products. [SEP] Koos Van Den Akker // Poughkeepsie, New York, interpreted the psychological concept of white noise with 30 garments for adults and children. Despite PETA's protests of his use of fur in coutourier collections, he, along with Oscar de la Renta and Valentino, continued to design for New York-based furrier Alixandre by applying broadtail, fox, lynx, mink, sable and sheared beaver to winter fashions. Van den Akker's spring/summer line for 2001 perpetuated his tradition of fabric collage and appliquéd couture in softly draping shapes to flatter the figure. In 2002 he was awarded an honorary doctorate from the San Francisco Academy of Art College as a
A bill supported by Gov. Scott Walker makes it "so that drunk drivers who kill have an easier time of it. [SEP] Governorship of Mitt Romney // answered all those concerns with this bill." The Massachusetts House of Representatives defeated the bill 99-53. In May 2005, Romney presented a proposal to the Massachusetts General Court to crack down on repeat drunk drivers. Massachusetts had some of the weakest drunk driving laws of any state in the country, and the state was losing $9 million annually from its highway budget because existing laws were not in compliance with federal standards. Romney called his proposal "Melanie's Bill" in honor of Melanie Powell, a 13-year-old who was killed in 2003 by a repeat drunk driver while walking to the beach
A bill supported by Gov. Scott Walker makes it "so that drunk drivers who kill have an easier time of it. [SEP] Scott Walker (politician) // anti-union legislation in upper Midwestern industrial states and that his "fervent anti-union rhetoric and actions" has helped his national reputation within the Republican Party. On May 24, 2017, Walker signed a bill that allowed unaccompanied minors to attend concerts and other musical festivals where alcohol is being served. On June 21, 2017, he signed into law a bill that allowed 16- and 17-year-olds to work without parental permission. Walker and his wife Tonette have two sons, Matt (born 1994) and Alex. Walker's wife and sons disagree with him on certain political and religious issues. The family attends Meadowbrook Church, a
A bill supported by Gov. Scott Walker makes it "so that drunk drivers who kill have an easier time of it. [SEP] Scott Walker (politician) // into law. In January and April 2015 speeches in Iowa, Walker included passing those laws among his accomplishments. The National Rifle Association gave Walker a 100% ranking in 2014. On June 24, 2015, Walker signed two bills into law, one which removed the state's 48-hour waiting period for buying a gun and another which gave retired or off-duty police officers the legal right to carry concealed guns in public schools. Walker opposes the Affordable Care Act (ACA or "Obamacare") and has signed Wisconsin onto a lawsuit seeking to have the ACA rolled back (including provisions for preexisting conditions). He supported
A bill supported by Gov. Scott Walker makes it "so that drunk drivers who kill have an easier time of it. [SEP] Joel Judd // the bill passed the legislature and was enacted into law, albeit without the signature of Gov. Bill Owens. During the 2007 legislative session, in reaction to a 2006 hit and run accident that killed a mother and her two young children in downtown Denver, Judd sponsored legislation to strengthen penalties for drunk driving and require ignition interlock devices on the automobiles of those convicted of DUIs. The measure would have made Colorado's drunk-driving laws the strictest in the nation, but was defeated in the legislature. Another 2007 measure by Judd, designed to limit handguns with vehicles unless the owner held
A bill supported by Gov. Scott Walker makes it "so that drunk drivers who kill have an easier time of it. [SEP] Charles J. Fuschillo Jr. // the Alzheimer's Foundation of America (AFA). Fuschillo has been a campaigner against drunk driving in New York State. He sponsored "Leandra's Law," which makes it a felony to drive drunk with a child in the car and requires all convicted drunk drivers to use ignition interlocks to prevent them from drinking and driving again. He sponsored laws which lowered New York State's legal blood alcohol content (BAC) level from .10 to .08; enacted tougher penalties for repeat offenders and those who drive with an elevated BAC; and expanded the use of ignition interlock devices to keep convicted DWI offenders from
A bill supported by Gov. Scott Walker makes it "so that drunk drivers who kill have an easier time of it. [SEP] Glenn Grothman // Governor Scott Walker This bill made Wisconsin the 49th state to legalize concealed carry. Speaking in support of Governor Scott Walker's decision to repeal the Wisconsin Equal Pay Act, Grothman stated that the alleged pay differential is explainable: "Once you break it down by married and unmarried, the differential disappears." He opposed a provision in a 2010 sex education law that prohibited teachers from promoting bias based on sexual orientation, saying that he did not believe the topic should be discussed at all in the public schools. According to the "Capitol Times", Grothman's opposition was based on the belief that
A bill supported by Gov. Scott Walker makes it "so that drunk drivers who kill have an easier time of it. [SEP] Matt Hansen // bills that passed over vetoes by governor Pete Ricketts. LB268 repealed the state's death penalty; LB623 reversed the state's previous policy of denying driver's licenses to DACA beneficiaries; and LB610 increased the tax on gasoline to pay for repairs to roads and bridges. Hansen voted in favor of the death-penalty repeal, and to override Ricketts's veto of the measure; he voted for passage of LB623, and to override the gubernatorial veto; and he abstained on the vote to pass the gas-tax increase, then voted to override the veto. In its 2016 session, the Nebraska legislature passed three bills that Ricketts
A bill supported by Gov. Scott Walker makes it "so that drunk drivers who kill have an easier time of it. [SEP] Curt Anderson // and rape cases that resulted in confessions. The bill was signed into law by the Governor in May 2008. During the 2009 session of the Maryland General Assembly, Anderson introduced two bills aimed at strengthening Maryland's drunk driving laws: HB330 (Manslaughter and Vehicular Manslaughter -Penalties) and HB 212 (Preliminary Breath Test – Evidence). Anderson was the primary sponsor of HB66, revamping and updating Maryland's theft statute (Chapter 655). he also sponsored several gun bills designed to decrease violent crime in Baltimore. Anderson was the primary and sole sponsor of House Bill 1473 – Maryland's "BLUE Alert" system. A system similar
A bill supported by Gov. Scott Walker makes it "so that drunk drivers who kill have an easier time of it. [SEP] Tom Emmer // Emmer sponsored a bill that would shorten the period of license revocation for driving under the influence and for refusing to take a sobriety test. Additionally, though "suspected drunken drivers [currently] face revocation before they go to court," Emmer's bill would have delayed revocations until after conviction. Supporters of Emmer's bill said "it's needed because pre-conviction revocations penalize drivers before proving they're guilty." Mothers Against Drunk Driving and the head of the Minnesota DWI task force opposed the legislation because it would allow arrested drivers to continue to drive during the time between their arrest and hearing. Emmer's own history
A bill supported by Gov. Scott Walker makes it "so that drunk drivers who kill have an easier time of it. [SEP] Scott Walker (politician) // As a freshman legislator in 1993, he co-sponsored right-to-work legislation. In 1999 he took the lead in a truth-in-sentencing bill that increased prison time for some crimes, eliminated parole for others, and subsequently contributed to prison overcrowding. Walker was a member of the American Legislative Exchange Council (ALEC) at the time, and credited the organization for much of the success of the legislation. In 2001, he was the lead sponsor of a bill to prevent pharmacists from being disciplined for refusing to fill prescriptions for emergency contraception and was a strong supporter of a bill to require voters to show
Boy, 9, is 1st French death from likely COVID-linked illness. [SEP] Guy Pierre de Fontgalland // of 7–8 December, he fell ill with diphtheria. There followed a period of crisis and remissions during which, knowing he would die despite the optimism of his doctors, he disclosed his "double secret" to his mother. He confronted the pain with courage and died of suffocation on Saturday, January 24, 1925, aged eleven. His death caused a sensation. At the end of 1925, the Father Rector of St. Louis de Gonzague wrote: "Really the way in which the story of this little life spreads is amazing; the finger of God is here." There was a continuous procession of parents, friends
Boy, 9, is 1st French death from likely COVID-linked illness. [SEP] Charlie Hebdo shooting // 9 January 2015) as the main suspects. French citizens born in Paris to Algerian immigrants, the brothers were orphaned at a young age. At the ages of 12 (Said) and 10 (Chérif), they came home from school one day to find their mother, pregnant for a sixth time, lying dead in their flat. Neighbours presumed suicide, but officially her death was recorded as caused by "illness". The two brothers were placed in a foster home in Rennes. After two years, they were moved to an orphanage in Corrèze in 1994, along with a younger brother and an older sister. The
Boy, 9, is 1st French death from likely COVID-linked illness. [SEP] Jeanne Weber // the door by a babysitter, "Madame Moulinet," who led him to the cot where nine-year-old Auguste Bavouzet lay dead, his throat badly bruised. The cause of death was listed as "convulsions," but the doctor changed his opinion on 4 May, when "Madame Moulinet" was identified as Jeanne Weber. Weber engaged the lawyer Henri-Robert once more. Held over for trial, Weber was released in December, after a second autopsy blamed the boy's death on typhoid. Weber quickly dropped from sight, surfacing next as an orderly at a children's hospital in Faucombault, moving on from there to the Children's Home in Orgeville,
Boy, 9, is 1st French death from likely COVID-linked illness. [SEP] Jeanne Weber // seven-year-old son. On 2 March 1905, Weber was babysitting for her sister-in-law, when one of the woman's two daughters — 18-month-old Georgette — suddenly "fell ill" and died. Strange bruises on her neck were ignored by the examining physician, and Weber was welcomed back to babysit on 11 March. Two-year-old Suzanne did not survive the visit, but a doctor blamed the second death on unexplained "convulsions." Weber was babysitting for her brother, on 25 March, when his daughter, seven-year-old Germaine, suffered a sudden attack of "choking," complete with red marks on her throat. The child survived that episode, but she
Boy, 9, is 1st French death from likely COVID-linked illness. [SEP] Victor of Aveyron // age of 5 or 6; it is inconceivable that any child, including Victor, could survive on his own, in the wild, younger than that. The fact that he could not speak a word at the time of his capture, even though he must have been around humans at least into early childhood, and never learned to speak thereafter despite Itard's intensive tutelage, suggests that he was mentally disabled—again, a diagnosis of autism seems to be gaining favor. This disability could also explain why he was abused, perhaps treated like an animal, in his earliest years. Victor's life has been dramatized
Boy, 9, is 1st French death from likely COVID-linked illness. [SEP] Victor of Aveyron // "One is that the Wild Boy, though born normal, developed a serious mental or psychological disturbance before his abandonment. Precocious schizophrenia, infantile psychosis, autism—a number of technical terms have been applied to his position. Several psychiatrists I have consulted favor this approach. It provides both a motivation for abandonment and an explanation for his partial recovery under Itard's treatment." Victor died of pneumonia in Paris in 1828 in the home of Madame Guérin. Professor Uta Frith has stated she believes Victor displayed signs of autism. Serge Aroles, in his book "L'énigme des enfants-loups" ("The Mystery of the Wolf-Children"), also believes
Boy, 9, is 1st French death from likely COVID-linked illness. [SEP] Murder of Grégory Villemin // charge of the first investigation, Jean-Michel Lambert, committed suicide, citing in a farewell letter to a local newspaper the increasing pressure resulting from the reopening of the case. Murder of Grégory Villemin Grégory Villemin (24 August 1980 – 16 October 1984) was a French boy from Lépanges-sur-Vologne who was murdered at the age of 4. His body was found away in the Vologne River near Docelles. The case became known as the Grégory Affair () and for decades has received widespread media coverage in France, where it continues to capture the public interest. The murder remains unsolved. In the years
Boy, 9, is 1st French death from likely COVID-linked illness. [SEP] Charles de Gaulle // Down's syndrome and died of pneumonia at the age of 20. De Gaulle always had a particular love for Anne; one Colombey resident recalled how he used to walk with her hand-in-hand around the property, caressing her and talking quietly about the things she understood. Charles de Gaulle had an older brother Xavier (1887–1955) and sister Marie-Agnes (1889–1983), and two younger brothers, Jacques (1893–1946) and Pierre (1897–1959). He was particularly close to the youngest, Pierre, who so resembled him that presidential bodyguards often saluted him by mistake when he visited his famous brother or accompanied him on official visits. One
Boy, 9, is 1st French death from likely COVID-linked illness. [SEP] Kitum Cave // French man died from the virus after visiting the cave, and in 1987 a Danish 15-year-old boy also got sick and died after visiting the cave. Two strains of virus have been catalogued from these infections: the 1980 strain is named after a doctor, Shem Musoke, who survived being infected by the French patient; the 1987 strain is named Ravn, after the last name of the Danish patient. Based on these cases, an expedition was staged by the United States Army Medical Research Institute of Infectious Disease (USAMRIID) in an attempt to identify the vector species presumably residing in the
Boy, 9, is 1st French death from likely COVID-linked illness. [SEP] Michel Trudeau // boy. Sasha (Alexandre), born Christmas Day, 1973, is a bit of a revolutionary, very determined and strong-willed. Miche (Michel) is a happy, well-adjusted child, who combined the best traits of both brothers." Trudeau died as the result of an avalanche on November 13, 1998, aged 23. At the time, he had been working for about a year at Red Mountain Resort and living in Rossland, British Columbia. He was taking a backcountry skiing trip with some friends in Kokanee Glacier Provincial Park when he was swept into Kokanee Lake and unable to reach the shore. His companions were unable to
Under the Obama plan . . . all the health care in this country is eventually going to be run by the government. [SEP] Health care reforms proposed during the Obama administration // lawful residence in the United States." There is also disagreement as to whether federal mandates would be constitutional, and state initiatives opposing federal mandates may lead to litigation and delay. On June 28, 2012, the U.S. Supreme Court upheld the individual mandate provision as Constitutional. President Barack Obama argues that U.S. healthcare is rationed, based on income, type of employment, and pre-existing medical conditions, with nearly 46 million uninsured. He argues that millions of Americans are denied coverage or face higher premiums as a result of pre-existing medical conditions. Peter Singer and David Leonhardt have each separately noted that health
Under the Obama plan . . . all the health care in this country is eventually going to be run by the government. [SEP] History of health care reform in the United States // Obama administration officials announced they would support a health insurance cooperative in response to deep political unrest amongst Congressional Republicans and amongst citizens in town hall meetings held across America. However, in a June 2009 NBC News/Wall Street Journal survey, 76% said it was either "extremely" or "quite" important to "give people a choice of both a public plan administered by the federal government and a private plan for their health insurance." During the summer of 2009, members of the "Tea Party" protested against proposed health care reforms. Former insurance PR executive Wendell Potter of the Center for Media and
Under the Obama plan . . . all the health care in this country is eventually going to be run by the government. [SEP] Executive Order 13813 // Obamacare with a new health care regime. Trump briefly forgot to sign the order before leaving the signing ceremony, but was ushered back to the table by Vice President Mike Pence to complete this step. Senator Rand Paul, who attended the signing, described the order as "the biggest free market reform of health care in a generation". The order reverses a number of aspects of Obamacare upon which that regime had relied. Section 1, title "Policy", lays out the policies supporting the provisions of the order, noting that the order directs that the government "facilitate the purchase of insurance across
Under the Obama plan . . . all the health care in this country is eventually going to be run by the government. [SEP] Betsy McCaughey // from the draft, she argued that the 77 percent of Americans then covered by insurance would see a downgrade in their policies, and most would not be able to keep their own physicians but be forced into price-controlled health maintenance organizations (HMOs), which would provide only the most basic care. According to McCaughey, the HMO plans would not pay for visits to specialists or for second opinions, and most physicians would be driven out of private practice. In late November 1993, the bill for the Clinton health care plan of 1993 was introduced in the Congress and made publicly available.
Under the Obama plan . . . all the health care in this country is eventually going to be run by the government. [SEP] United States Health Care Reform: Progress to Date and Next Steps // health care system, noting that many Americans still cannot afford many of their medical treatments and visits, or have no health insurance at all. In the article, Obama recommends that after he leaves office, the next president should introduce a "public option" for health insurance in parts of the United States where there are few insurers in the marketplace. He also calls on his successor to try to reduce prices of prescription drugs. United States Health Care Reform: Progress to Date and Next Steps "United States Health Care Reform: Progress to Date and Next Steps" is a review article by
Under the Obama plan . . . all the health care in this country is eventually going to be run by the government. [SEP] Health care reforms proposed during the Obama administration // take "at least a decade." He recommended changes that address the over-utilization of healthcare; the refocusing of incentives on value rather than profits; and comparative analysis of the cost of treatment across various healthcare providers to identify best practices. He argued this would be an iterative, empirical process and should be administered by a "national institute for healthcare delivery" to analyze and communicate improvement opportunities. A report published by the Commonwealth Fund in December 2007 examined 15 federal policy options and concluded that, taken together, they had the potential to reduce future increases in health care spending by $1.5 trillion
Under the Obama plan . . . all the health care in this country is eventually going to be run by the government. [SEP] United States // on the economy. In 2010, the Obama administration passed the Affordable Care Act, which made the most sweeping reforms to the nation's healthcare system in nearly five decades, including mandates, subsidies and insurance exchanges. The law caused a significant reduction in the number and percentage of people without health insurance, with 24 million covered during 2016, but remains controversial due to its impact on healthcare costs, insurance premiums, and economic performance. Although the recession reached its trough in June 2009, voters remained frustrated with the slow pace of the economic recovery. The Republicans, who stood in opposition to Obama's policies,
Under the Obama plan . . . all the health care in this country is eventually going to be run by the government. [SEP] History of health care reform in the United States // within the Republican Party suddenly faced unified opposition." The "New York Times" subsequently noted: "It can be difficult to remember now, given the ferocity with which many Republicans assail it as an attack on freedom, but the provision in President Obama's healthcare law requiring all Americans to buy health insurance has its roots in conservative thinking." The reform negotiations also attracted a great deal of attention from lobbyists, including deals among certain lobbies and the advocates of the law to win the support of groups who had opposed past reform efforts, such as in 1993. The Sunlight Foundation documented many
Under the Obama plan . . . all the health care in this country is eventually going to be run by the government. [SEP] Barack Obama // pass legislation reforming health care in the United States, a key campaign promise and a top legislative goal. He proposed an expansion of health insurance coverage to cover the uninsured, to cap premium increases, and to allow people to retain their coverage when they leave or change jobs. His proposal was to spend $900 billion over 10 years and include a government insurance plan, also known as the public option, to compete with the corporate insurance sector as a main component to lowering costs and improving quality of health care. It would also make it illegal for insurers to drop
Under the Obama plan . . . all the health care in this country is eventually going to be run by the government. [SEP] Healthcare reform debate in the United States // control of government over healthcare decisions, which he referred to as a type of healthcare rationing. President Obama has argued that U.S. healthcare is already rationed, based on income, type of employment, and medical pre-existing conditions, with nearly 46 million uninsured. He argued that millions of Americans are denied coverage or face higher premiums as a result of medical pre-existing conditions. Peter Singer wrote in the "New York Times" in July 2009 that healthcare is rationed in the United States and argued for improved rationing processes: According to PolitiFact, private health insurance companies already ration healthcare by income, by denying
The Obama administration shut down the Amber Alert program because of the government shutdown. [SEP] Amber alert // and Miller have subsequently applied the concept to other emotional but ineffective legislation such as safe-haven laws and polygamy raids, and continue their work in developing the concept of "crime control theater" and on the AMBER Alert system. Griffin considers his findings preliminary, reporting his team examined only a portion of the Amber Alerts issued over the three-year period they focused on, so he recommends taking a closer look at the evaluation of the program and its intended purpose, instead of simply promoting the program. The 4 a.m. timing of a July 2013 New York child abduction alert sent through
The Obama administration shut down the Amber Alert program because of the government shutdown. [SEP] Amber alert // Representatives adopted H.Res. 605 which encouraged communities nationwide to implement the AMBER Plan. In October 2001, the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children that had declined to be a part of the Amber Alert in February 1996, launched a campaign to have AMBER Alert systems established nationwide. In February 2002, the Federal Communications Commission officially endorsed the system. In 2002, several children were abducted in cases that drew national attention. One such case, the kidnapping and murder of Samantha Runnion, prompted California to establish an AMBER Alert system on July 24, 2002. According to Senator Dianne Feinstein, in its
The Obama administration shut down the Amber Alert program because of the government shutdown. [SEP] Amber alert // the 233 AMBER Alerts issued in the United States in 2004 found that most issued alerts did not meet the Department of Justice's criteria. Fully 50% (117 alerts) were categorized by the National Center for Missing & Exploited Children as being "family abductions", very often a parent involved in a custody dispute. There were 48 alerts for children who had not been abducted at all, but were lost, ran away, involved in family misunderstandings (for example, two instances where the child was with grandparents), or as the result of hoaxes. Another 23 alerts were issued in cases where police did
The Obama administration shut down the Amber Alert program because of the government shutdown. [SEP] Amber alert // immediately posted on the Internet for the general public to view. Following the automation of the AMBER Alert with ANS technology created by the Child Alert Foundation, the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children (NCMEC) expanded its role in 2002 to promote the AMBER Alert, although in 1996 now CEO of the NCMEC declined to come in and further assist the AMBER Alert when asked to by Bruce Seybert and Richard Hagerman and has since worked actively to see alerts distributed using the nation's existing emergency radio and TV response network. In October 2000, the United States House of
The Obama administration shut down the Amber Alert program because of the government shutdown. [SEP] Amber alert // after the abducted girl Emilia Benavides in December 2017. According to the U.S. Department of Justice, of the children abducted and murdered by strangers, 75% are killed within the first three hours in the USA. Amber Alerts are designed to inform the general public quickly when a child has been kidnapped and is in danger so "the public [would be] additional eyes and ears of law enforcement". , the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children estimates that 657 children have been successfully recovered as a result of the existence of the AMBER Alert program. A Scripps Howard study of
The Obama administration shut down the Amber Alert program because of the government shutdown. [SEP] Child Alert Foundation // which has since become the AMBER Alert. The original Amber Plan (1997) was a faxed based procedure where law enforcement agencies were required to prepare information for public distribution and then fax that information to a list of designated primary radio stations. This was a manual procedure and time-consuming process. The ACA system created by Child Alert is a totally automated procedure that was designed from the very beginning to exceed the original Amber Plan requirements. Rather than limit the alert to radio, CAF expanded coverage to include television and news organizations as well as other law enforcement agencies for
The Obama administration shut down the Amber Alert program because of the government shutdown. [SEP] Amber alert // a pursuit by Canadian authorities usually follows. For incidents which do not meet AMBER Alert criteria, the United States Department of Justice developed the Child Abduction Response Teams (CART) program to assist local agencies. This program can be used in all missing children's cases with or without an AMBER alert. CART can also be used to help recover runaway children under the age of 18 and who are in danger. , 225 response teams have been trained in 43 states, Washington, D.C., Puerto Rico, the Bahamas, and Canada. Amber Rene Hagerman (November 25, 1986 -- January 17, 1996) was a
The Obama administration shut down the Amber Alert program because of the government shutdown. [SEP] Amber alert // signs. A similar bill was sponsored in the U.S. House of Representatives by Jennifer Dunn and Martin Frost. The bill passed the Senate unanimously within a week of its proposal. At an October 2002 conference on missing, exploited, and runaway children, President George W. Bush announced changes to the AMBER Alert system, including the development of a national standard for issuing AMBER Alerts. A similar bill passed the House several weeks later on a 390–24 vote. A related bill finally became law in April 2003. The alerts were offered digitally beginning in November 2002, when America Online began a service
The Obama administration shut down the Amber Alert program because of the government shutdown. [SEP] Amber alert // allowing people sign up to receive notification via computer, pager, or cell phone. Users of the service enter their ZIP Code, thus allowing the alerts to be targeted to specific geographic regions. By 2005, all fifty states had operational programs and today the program operates across state and jurisdictional boundaries. , AMBER Alerts are automatically sent through the Wireless Emergency Alerts (WEA) program. Canada's system began in December 2002, when Alberta launched the first province-wide system. At the time, Alberta Solicitor-General Heather Forsyth said "We anticipate an Amber Alert will only be issued once a year in Alberta. We hope
The Obama administration shut down the Amber Alert program because of the government shutdown. [SEP] United States federal government shutdown of 2013 // Reince Priebus and some Republican lawmakers, including Senator Ted Cruz, charged that some of the closures were unnecessary and overzealously enforced at the behest of the Obama administration. The National Park Service responded that it is legally mandated to protect national park lands and, in the absence of available staff to patrol, maintain and administer the areas, must close them to the public. The vast majority of the agency's staff were furloughed, leaving only a limited number of law enforcement rangers and firefighters on duty to protect life and property. A NPS press release said the shutdown of national parks
Spain's coronavirus deaths rise above 10,000, yet there is 'glimpse of hope'. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // government, in November 2013, reported a woman in Spain, who had recently traveled to Saudi Arabia for the Islamic pilgrimage, contracted the disease. On 14 April 2014, one Filipino paramedic died in the United Arab Emirates, with six other reported to be infected with the virus. On 17 April, the UAE Ministry of Health reported another fatality and four additional cases, including the Filipino medical worker who travelled to the Philippines on 16 April. On 21 April 2014, the Health Ministry of UAE reported an additional 9 cases. In April 2012, six hospital workers were diagnosed with acute respiratory failure
Spain's coronavirus deaths rise above 10,000, yet there is 'glimpse of hope'. [SEP] Coronavirus // 2013, a case of contamination from human to human in France was confirmed by the French Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. In addition, cases of person-to-person transmission have been reported by the Ministry of Health in Tunisia. Two confirmed cases seem to have caught the disease from their late father, who became ill after a visit to Qatar and Saudi Arabia. By Oct. 30 2013, there were 124 cases and 52 deaths in Saudi Arabia. After the Dutch Erasmus Medical Centre sequenced the virus, the virus was given a new name, Human Corona Virus-Erasmus Medical Centre (HCoV-EMC). The final
Spain's coronavirus deaths rise above 10,000, yet there is 'glimpse of hope'. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // United Kingdom, France, Germany, and the United Arab Emirates. According to a European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) publication, on April 2014, Tunisia had a total of 3 cases with 1 fatality. In May 2015, the first case in South Korea was confirmed in a man who had visited several Middle Eastern countries. As of 16 June 2015, a total of 150 cases has been infected, including 18 deaths, according to the World Health Organization (WHO). As of 29 June 2015, 32 people in South Korea have died from this outbreak, with 182 confirmed cases of infection. There
Spain's coronavirus deaths rise above 10,000, yet there is 'glimpse of hope'. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // MERS had infected at least 60 people with cases reported in Jordan, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates (UAE), Tunisia, Germany, the United Kingdom (UK), France and Italy, with a death toll of 38. Saudi officials expressed great concern that millions of Muslims from around the world would potentially be exposed to the virus during the autumn Hajj, or pilgrimage to Mecca. In May 2014, the WHO said it was monitoring the situation as global cases of MERS appeared to be on the rise, but said the situation did not yet constitute a health emergency. On 3 June 2014,
Spain's coronavirus deaths rise above 10,000, yet there is 'glimpse of hope'. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // and from that family at least one additional person presented similar symptoms but tested negative for the novel coronavirus. On 21 February 2013, WHO stated that there had been 13 laboratory-confirmed cases, 6 cases (4 fatal) from Saudi Arabia, 2 cases (both fatal) from Jordan, 2 cases from Qatar, and 3 from the UK. In March 2013, the Saudi Arabia Ministry of Health reported the death of a 39-year-old man, the 15th case and 9th death reported to WHO. On 2 May 2013, the Saudi Ministry of Health announced five people died and two other people were in critical condition
Spain's coronavirus deaths rise above 10,000, yet there is 'glimpse of hope'. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // 73 to 85 years, but they have all chronic diseases." With this announcement, the unofficial global case count reached 49 while the death toll stands at 24 according to the CDC. As of 26 June 34 deaths have been recorded in the kingdom. On 1 August 2013, the World Health Organization announced three new MERS-CoV cases in that Saudi Arabia, all of them in women, two of whom were healthcare workers. "With the three new cases, Saudi Arabia's posted MERS tally increases to 74 cases with 39 deaths. The cases raise the WHO's MERS count to 94 cases and 46
Spain's coronavirus deaths rise above 10,000, yet there is 'glimpse of hope'. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // Saudi Arabia revised the country's total cases of MERS to date to 688 cases after re-examining the data as part of an effort to better understand the disease. A total of 282 people had died from MERS. The numbers represented a jump of 113 cases and 92 deaths. Despite the jump in reported cases, the number of new cases was on the decline according to Tariq Madany, head of the medical advisory council. At the same time, the Saudi deputy health minister was fired, the second high level health official fired within two months. On 4 June 2014, a study
Spain's coronavirus deaths rise above 10,000, yet there is 'glimpse of hope'. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // deaths." On 31 October 2013, the WHO announced that three patients in Saudi Arabia died of MERS. The patients were one woman and two men and "all had underlying medical conditions but all reported having had no contact with animals before falling ill". Early of 23 April 2014, 11 new cases including a first case for Mecca were reported by the Health Ministry. An additional 13 cases were reported on the same day. With the additional reported cases, there are now a total of 285 cases with 83 deaths in the Kingdom. A hospital-related outbreak in Riyadh brought the total
Spain's coronavirus deaths rise above 10,000, yet there is 'glimpse of hope'. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // the same room as the first patient was confirmed by French Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. France reported its first death from MERS near the end of May 2013. On 28 May 2013, a report by the Associated Press said a French patient died of the novel coronavirus related to SARS. Fifty percent of those infected have died. On 20 April 2014, Greece reported its first MERS-CoV case. The infected individual was a 69-year-old Greek male who had returned to Greece on April 17 from Saudi Arabia. People with close contact with the infected man were identified and are
Spain's coronavirus deaths rise above 10,000, yet there is 'glimpse of hope'. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // Saudi Arabia. In the latest cluster of infections, 15 cases had been confirmed, and nine of those patients had died. Ten of the 22 people who died and 22 of 44 cases reported were in Saudi Arabia. An unconfirmed case in another Saudi citizen, for which no clinical information was available, was also reported around this time. On 22 September 2012, the Saudi Ministry of Health (MOH) announced that the two cases involving Saudi citizens, caused by what they termed a "rare pattern of coronavirus," had both proven fatal. Two of the Saudi Arabia cases were from the same family
Pre and Post Testing Show Reversal of Memory Loss From Alzheimer’s Disease in Ten Patients [SEP] Memory and aging // years. There are four drugs currently approved by the FDA for the treatment of Alzheimer’s, and they all act on the cholinergic system: Donepezil, Galantamine, Rivastigmine, and Tacrine. Although these medications are not the cure for Alzheimer’s, symptoms may be reduced for up to eighteen months for mild or moderate dementia. These drugs do not forestall the ultimate decline to full Alzheimer's. Also, modality is important in determining the strength of the memory. For instance, auditory creates stronger memory abilities than visual. This is shown by the higher recency and primacy effects of an auditory recall test compared to that
Pre and Post Testing Show Reversal of Memory Loss From Alzheimer’s Disease in Ten Patients [SEP] Postmenopausal confusion // of Alzheimer's, as mentioned in "Causes". Women who had their uterus and ovaries removed for medical reasons and lost their gonadal hormones showed a decrease in short-term verbal (hippocampus) and working memories (pre-frontal cortex), yet with estrogen therapy the memory loss was prevented. Furthermore, those who have undertaken estrogen therapy have shown significantly higher scores on verbal memory, verbal fluency, and visual memory tasks as compared to those who did not undergo treatment. It is widely found that this treatment must be administered near to the onset of menopause as opposed to several years postmenopause, when hormone therapy can have
Pre and Post Testing Show Reversal of Memory Loss From Alzheimer’s Disease in Ten Patients [SEP] Memory error // errors. As noted above, memory errors may be due to the lack of cues that can trigger a memory trace and bring it to awareness. However, studies have shown that the opposite may be true for patients with Alzheimer’s, such that cues may actually decrease perform on priming tasks. Patients also demonstrate errors known as misattribution errors, otherwise known as source confusion. However, studies show that these misattribution errors are dependent on whether the task is a familiarity or recollection tas. Although patients tend to exhibit a higher level of false recognitions than control groups. researchers have shown that they
Pre and Post Testing Show Reversal of Memory Loss From Alzheimer’s Disease in Ten Patients [SEP] Avid Radiopharmaceuticals // with symptoms of Alzheimer's disease detected plaque in a PET scan in areas where it was typically found in the brain. Further tests found that the scans detected plaque in patients with Alzheimer's, didn't find it in those without the diagnosis and found intermediate amounts in patients with early signs of dementia. The tests found amyloid plaque in 20% of its test patients over age 60 that had been in the normal range, but had performed worse than a control group on tests of mental acuity. In order to confirm if the dye was accurate in detecting Alzheimer's, an advisory
Pre and Post Testing Show Reversal of Memory Loss From Alzheimer’s Disease in Ten Patients [SEP] Retrospective memory // activity (but no structural changes) in parahippocampal regions. However, when subject to associative memory tasks, users performed within normal ranges. This shows that a decrease in activation in these regions is associated with frequent marijuana use, but does not affect memory task performance. This is still a controversial issue, and more research is required to draw conclusive results. Alzheimer's disease accounts for 60 to 70 percent of cases of dementias. The brains of Alzheimer's patients have an abundance of plaques and tangles which begin in areas involved in memory, spreading to other areas, and eventually affecting most of the brain.
Pre and Post Testing Show Reversal of Memory Loss From Alzheimer’s Disease in Ten Patients [SEP] Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative // signs of the disease such as memory loss, preventive therapies are targeted to cognitively normal people. ADNI studies have focused on two aspects of clinical trials in particular: 1) how best to select trial participants who don't yet show any signs of cognitive impairment but who are at a high risk of developing AD (subject selection); and 2) how to detect the effect of a therapy (outcome measures). Subject selection ADNI studies have shown that people who are β-amyloid positive or have a small hippocampal volume, or carry an "APOE" ε4 allele are at a higher risk for AD. Therefore,
Pre and Post Testing Show Reversal of Memory Loss From Alzheimer’s Disease in Ten Patients [SEP] Apolipoprotein A1 // trials the reversal of plaque build-up was measured over the course of five weeks. Lately, two novel susceptibility haplotypes i.e. P2-S2-X1 and P1-S2-X1 have been discovered in ApoAI-CIII-AIV gene cluster on chromosome 11q23, which confer approximately threefold higher risk of coronary heart disease in normal as well as in the patients having non-insulin diabetes mellitus. A G/A polymorphism in the promoter of the apo A1 gene has been associated with the age at which patients presented with Alzheimer disease. Protection from Alzheimer's disease by apo A1 may rely on a synergistic interaction with alpha-tocopherol. Amyloid deposited in the knee following
Pre and Post Testing Show Reversal of Memory Loss From Alzheimer’s Disease in Ten Patients [SEP] Protease-sensitive prionopathy // ataxia, parkinsonism, psychosis, aphasia and mood disorders). This is similar to what occurs in other spongiform encephalopathies, and the condition can be mistaken for Alzheimer's dementia. Contrary to what is the case in CJD, there were no cases with a positive 14-3-3 protein test in the cerebrospinal fluid, no periodic complexes on electroencephalography (EEG), and no pathognomonic changes on diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance images. The mean age of onset in the original 11 patients was 62 years. Patients progressed to death in 20 months on average. PSPr accounted for three percent of prion disease cases evaluated by the U.S. National Prion
Pre and Post Testing Show Reversal of Memory Loss From Alzheimer’s Disease in Ten Patients [SEP] Deficiency of RbAp48 protein and memory loss // from Alzheimer's disease (AD), a subregion of the hippocampal formation called the dentate gyrus (DG) was further studied, since it is thought to be targeted by aging. Human postmortem tissue was collected from both DG and entorhinal cortex (EC). Entorhinal cortex is a neighboring subregion unaffected by aging and known to be implicated in age-related memory loss. After normalizing the expression of EC, 17 genes were manifested due to age-related changes in the DG. Mice were used as the experimental subjects to test whether the decline of RbAp48 was also related to age-related memory loss. The results were consistent with
Pre and Post Testing Show Reversal of Memory Loss From Alzheimer’s Disease in Ten Patients [SEP] Alzheimer's disease // amyloid precursor protein (APP) and presenilins 1 and 2. Most mutations in the APP and presenilin genes increase the production of a small protein called Aβ42, which is the main component of senile plaques. Some of the mutations merely alter the ratio between Aβ42 and the other major forms—particularly Aβ40—without increasing Aβ42 levels. Most cases of Alzheimer's disease do not exhibit autosomal-dominant inheritance and are termed sporadic AD, in which environmental and genetic differences may act as risk factors. The best known genetic risk factor is the inheritance of the ε4 allele of the apolipoprotein E (APOE). Between 40 and
GOP senators blink on a big chance to repeal ‘Obamacare’. [SEP] Jimmy Kimmel test // he needed to read the full text of the bill. Multiple attempts to pass a Senate repeal bill in June and July 2017 failed. Senate Republicans faced a September 30, 2017 deadline in order to pass an Affordable Care Act repeal using reconciliation, a process that would permit the Senate to pass legislation with only 51 votes. On September 13, Cassidy and Sen. Lindsey Graham jointly proposed a new repeal bill, referred to as the Cassidy-Graham bill. The Cassidy-Graham proposal would create a waiver system allowing states to opt out of Affordable Care Act requirements, which could result in patients
GOP senators blink on a big chance to repeal ‘Obamacare’. [SEP] Cory Gardner // shooting, Gardner requested that the shooting not be "politicized" and offered thoughts and prayers to the victims. Gardner was part of the group of 13 Republican Senators drafting the Senate version of the American Health Care Act, which is the GOP legislation to repeal-and-replace the Affordable Care Act (Obamacare). He voted in favor of all variations of AHCA that came up for a vote in the Senate. The "New York Times" reported that in September 2017, when the GOP made another attempt to pass legislation to repeal the Affordable Care Act, Gardner warned Republican legislators at a closed luncheon that
GOP senators blink on a big chance to repeal ‘Obamacare’. [SEP] Susan Collins // the beginning of the Congress, Collins voted in favor of a bill to begin the repeal of the Affordable Care Act ("Obamacare"). However, with four other Republican senators, Collins is leading an effort to slow down the ACA repeal in the Senate. Collins and fellow Republican Senator Bill Cassidy of Louisiana have proposed legislation that permits states to either keep the ACA or move to a replacement program to be funded in part by the federal government. In January 2017, Collins "was the only Republican to vote for a defeated amendment...that would have prevented the Senate from adopting legislation cutting
GOP senators blink on a big chance to repeal ‘Obamacare’. [SEP] Efforts to repeal the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act // bills under budget reconciliation. Rand Paul and John McCain indicated that they would vote against the bill. Ultimately, McConnell announced on September 26th that the Senate would not vote on the Graham-Cassidy bill. Below is a summary of number of votes taken in the House of Representatives to repeal the Affordable Care Act either in full or in part through March 2014. The Tuesday, February 2, 2016 vote, with a tally of 241–186, was the 63rd attempt by the House. After the July 27, 2017 vote on the Health Care Freedom Act, Newsweek "found at least 70 Republican-led attempts to
GOP senators blink on a big chance to repeal ‘Obamacare’. [SEP] Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act // blueprint" which would allow Republicans to repeal parts of the law "without threat of a Democratic filibuster." The plan, which passed 51–48, is a budget blueprint named by Senate Republicans the "Obamacare 'repeal resolution. Democrats opposing the resolution staged a protest during the vote. House Republicans announced their replacement for the ACA, the American Health Care Act, on March 6, 2017. On March 24, 2017 the effort, led by Paul Ryan and Donald Trump, to repeal and replace the ACA failed amid a revolt among Republican representatives. May 4, 2017, the United States House of Representatives voted to pass the
GOP senators blink on a big chance to repeal ‘Obamacare’. [SEP] American Health Care Act of 2017 // returned to the calendar after the Senate rejected several amendments, including , the "Skinny Repeal" package offered by Sen. Mitch McConnell, which failed on a 49–51 vote. Sens. John McCain, Susan Collins, and Lisa Murkowski were the only Republicans to vote against the measure. On September 13, 2017, Senators Graham, Cassidy, Heller, and Johnson released a draft amendment to the bill that "repeals the structure and architecture of Obamacare and replaces it with a block grant given annually to states". However, it was not voted upon due to lack of support. On October 12, 2017, due to this failure of
GOP senators blink on a big chance to repeal ‘Obamacare’. [SEP] Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act // American Health Care Act (and thereby repeal most of the Affordable Care Act) by a narrow margin of 217 to 213, sending the bill to the Senate for deliberation. The Senate Republican leadership announced that Senate Republicans would write their own version of the bill, instead of voting on the House version. The Senate process began with an unprecedented level of secrecy; Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell named a group of 13 Republican Senators to draft the Senate's substitute version in private, raising bipartisan concerns about a lack of transparency. On June 22, 2017, Republicans released the first discussion draft
GOP senators blink on a big chance to repeal ‘Obamacare’. [SEP] Efforts to repeal the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act // the Health Care Freedom Act, also known as the "skinny repeal", was introduced. This bill was defeated 49–51, with Republican senators Susan Collins, John McCain, and Lisa Murkowski voting against it along with all the Democrats and Independents. On September 13, 2017, an amendment to the American Health Care Act, commonly known as Graham-Cassidy, was submitted. The bill was sponsored by Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, with Bill Cassidy of Louisiana as a co-sponsor. A spokesman for the Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell said that a vote was planned to occur before September 30th, which was the deadline to pass
GOP senators blink on a big chance to repeal ‘Obamacare’. [SEP] Lloyd Smucker // Care Act, the GOP's legislation to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act (Obamacare). On September 24, 2014, Smucker voted against Pennsylvania senate bill SB1182 which would legalize medical cannabis in Pennsylvania. Smucker voted to repeal provisions in the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. He has voted for increases in military spending. He supported legislation to punish sanctuary cities. In 2017, Smucker voted for a budget that proposed cutting Medicare by $537 billion, and giving senior the opportunity to enroll in private plans in competition with Medicare. Vote Smart, a non-profit, non-partisan research organization that collects and
GOP senators blink on a big chance to repeal ‘Obamacare’. [SEP] Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act // support of Stupak and members of his group and assured the bill's passage. The House passed the Senate bill with a 219–212 vote on March 21, 2010, with 34 Democrats and all 178 Republicans voting against it. The next day, Republicans introduced legislation to repeal the bill. Obama signed ACA into law on March 23, 2010. Since passage, Republicans have voted to repeal all or parts of the Affordable Care Act over sixty times; no such attempt by Republicans has been successful. The amendment bill, The Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act, cleared the House on March 21; the Senate
It’s common around Christmas time for people to warn one another             about the alleged toxicity of poinsettias. [SEP] Poinsettia // in the growth of axillary buds is credited to Ing-Ming Lee of the USDA Agricultural Research Service. Poinsettias are susceptible to several diseases, mostly fungal, but also bacterial and parasitic. In the United States and perhaps elsewhere, there is a common misconception that the poinsettia is highly toxic. This misconception was spread by a 1919 urban legend of a two-year-old child dying after consuming a poinsettia leaf. While the sap and latex of many plants of the spurge genus are indeed toxic, the poinsettia's toxicity is relatively mild. Its latex can cause an allergic reaction in sensitive individuals. It is
It’s common around Christmas time for people to warn one another             about the alleged toxicity of poinsettias. [SEP] Poinsettia // also mildly irritating to the skin or stomach and may sometimes cause diarrhea and vomiting if eaten. Sap introduced into the human eye may cause temporary blindness. An "American Journal of Emergency Medicine" study of 22,793 cases reported to the American Association of Poison Control Centers showed no fatalities, and furthermore that a strong majority of poinsettia exposures are accidental, involve children, and usually do not result in any type of medical treatment. POISINDEX, a major source for poison control centers, says a child would have to eat 500 bracts (poinsettia leaves) to accumulate levels of toxins found to be
It’s common around Christmas time for people to warn one another             about the alleged toxicity of poinsettias. [SEP] Poinsettia // harmful in experiments. An Ohio State University study showed no problems even with extremely large doses. Poinsettia The poinsettia ( or ) ("Euphorbia pulcherrima") (also known as "Christmas Star") is a commercially important plant species of the diverse spurge family (Euphorbiaceae). The species is indigenous to Mexico. It is particularly well known for its red and green foliage and is widely used in Christmas floral displays. It derives its common English name from Joel Roberts Poinsett, the first United States Minister to Mexico, who introduced the plant to the US in 1825. "Euphorbia pulcherrima" is a shrub or small tree,
It’s common around Christmas time for people to warn one another             about the alleged toxicity of poinsettias. [SEP] Poinsettia // a gift for the celebration of Jesus' birthday and was inspired by an angel to gather weeds from the roadside and place them in front of the church altar. Crimson blossoms sprouted from the weeds and became poinsettias. From the 17th century, Franciscan friars in Mexico included the plants in their Christmas celebrations. The star-shaped leaf pattern is said to symbolize the Star of Bethlehem, and the red color represents the blood sacrifice through the crucifixion of Jesus. Poinsettias are popular Christmas decorations in homes, churches, offices, and elsewhere across North America. They are available in large numbers from grocery,
It’s common around Christmas time for people to warn one another             about the alleged toxicity of poinsettias. [SEP] Christmas flowers // Christmas flowers Christmas flowers are the popular flowers used during the festive season of Christmas. In many nations, seasonal flowers and plants such as Poinsettia, Christmas cactus, holly, Christmas rose, ivy and mistletoe form a major part of traditional Christmas decoration. The ancient Aztecs (ruling tribe in central Mexico at the time of contact with Europe) prized the poinsettia as a symbol of purity. Centuries later, Mexico's early Christians adopted the poinsettia as their prized Christmas Eve flower. The Mexican poinsettia, known as the Christmas Flower in North America, is used in most Christmas decorations, owing to its bright red
It’s common around Christmas time for people to warn one another             about the alleged toxicity of poinsettias. [SEP] Poinsettia // Poinsettia The poinsettia ( or ) ("Euphorbia pulcherrima") (also known as "Christmas Star") is a commercially important plant species of the diverse spurge family (Euphorbiaceae). The species is indigenous to Mexico. It is particularly well known for its red and green foliage and is widely used in Christmas floral displays. It derives its common English name from Joel Roberts Poinsett, the first United States Minister to Mexico, who introduced the plant to the US in 1825. "Euphorbia pulcherrima" is a shrub or small tree, typically reaching a height of . The plant bears dark green dentate leaves that measure in
It’s common around Christmas time for people to warn one another             about the alleged toxicity of poinsettias. [SEP] Christmas // more widespread throughout Britain. By the 1870s, people in the United States had adopted the custom of putting up a Christmas tree. Christmas trees may be decorated with lights and ornaments. Since the 16th century, the poinsettia, a native plant from Mexico, has been associated with Christmas carrying the Christian symbolism of the Star of Bethlehem; in that country it is known in Spanish as the "Flower of the Holy Night". Other popular holiday plants include holly, mistletoe, red amaryllis, and Christmas cactus. Along with a Christmas tree, the interior of a home may be decorated with these plants, along
It’s common around Christmas time for people to warn one another             about the alleged toxicity of poinsettias. [SEP] Christmas in Mexico // as items such as Christmas trees, ornaments / electric light and even reindeer figures. Starting in December, many homes, businesses and other buildings are decorated with poinsettias, which are called "noche buena" (from the Spanish phrase that means "good night" referring to Christmas Eve) . Mexico is the origin of the poinsettia. In the pre-Hispanic period, they were called cuetlaxochitl, and a favorite in the mid winter when they were a symbol of the new life that they believed that fallen warriors received, returning as hummingbirds and butterflies to drink the nectar. A modern Mexican legend says that the poinsettia
It’s common around Christmas time for people to warn one another             about the alleged toxicity of poinsettias. [SEP] Christmas flowers // from tropical regions of Asia, cultivated "Serissa" often blooms during the winter. On the occasion of Christmas Eve, it is traditional for young women in North America to exchange specially designed Christmas roses with each other resembling their spirit of fraternity. Another plant known as Christmas rose is Helleborus niger. In New Zealand, the pōhutukawa tree is often associated with Christmas, as its bright red flowers usually appear in December. Holly is the plant most associated with Christmas in many European countries. Holly wreaths are hung on doors, and sprigs of holly used to trim Christmas puddings. Like most of
It’s common around Christmas time for people to warn one another             about the alleged toxicity of poinsettias. [SEP] Ardisia crenata // about 0.25 inches in diameter that remain on the plant throughout the year. The berry clusters often sag down below the glossy foliage. Berries are dispersed by birds and, when present, raccoons through consumption and subsequent excretion and also by water flow. While there are indications the plant may be poisonous to livestock, pets and humans, due to cattle deaths in Florida, there is no scientific confirmation of this. Christmas berry is an invasive species in the southeastern United States, escaping captivity in wooded areas of Florida in 1982. The invasive cultivar in this region is originally from Japan. Its
Congo’s Ebola outbreak poses challenges for bush meat. [SEP] Democratic Republic of the Congo // of the DRC's third largest city Kisangani were primarily Artiodactyla at 40.06% of the carcasses sold then primates at 37.79% of carcasses sold. Recently the prevalence of hunting for bush meat has declined because of the risk to hunters and butchers from the Ebola virus from specifically ape and bat meat. Even though when the meat is cooked smoked or dried it kills the virus, business has dropped significantly with some hunters reporting as much of a reduction in sales of 80%. There has been a war in the DRC in different levels of intensity since 1994 when the country
Congo’s Ebola outbreak poses challenges for bush meat. [SEP] Cultural effects of the Ebola crisis // of bushmeat's role as a protein source in Western Africa, it is traditionally associated with good nutrition, and efforts to outlaw the sale and consumption of bushmeat have been impossible to enforce and have met with suspicion from rural communities. The UN Food and Agriculture Organization estimates that between 30 and 80 percent of protein intake in rural households in Central Africa comes from wild meat. One major Nigerian newspaper published a report about the widespread view that eating dog meat was a healthy alternative to bush meat. Dog meat was implicated in a June 2015 Liberian outbreak of Ebola,
Congo’s Ebola outbreak poses challenges for bush meat. [SEP] Bushmeat // report about the widespread view that eating dog meat was a healthy alternative to bush meat. Dog meat was implicated in a June 2015 Liberian outbreak of Ebola, where three villagers who had tested positive for the disease had shared a meal of dog meat. One study conducted in Liberia during the recent Ebola crisis showed that socio-economic conditions impacted bushmeat consumption. During the crisis, there was a decrease in bushmeat consumption and daily meal frequency. In addition, preferences for bushmeat species stayed the same. Animals used as bushmeat may also carry other diseases such as smallpox, chicken pox, tuberculosis,
Congo’s Ebola outbreak poses challenges for bush meat. [SEP] Cultural effects of the Ebola crisis // 2014, the suspected index case for the Ebola outbreak in West Africa is a two-year-old child in Guéckédou in south-eastern Guinea, who was the child of a family that hunted two species of fruit bat, "Hypsignathus monstrosus" and "Epomops franqueti". Some researchers suggested the case was caused by zoonotic transmission though the child playing with an insectivorous bat from a colony of Angolan free-tailed bats near the village. Despite health organisations warning about risks of bushmeat, surveys pre-dating the 2014 outbreak indicate that people who eat bushmeat are usually unaware of the risks and view it as healthy food. Because
Congo’s Ebola outbreak poses challenges for bush meat. [SEP] Democratic Republic of the Congo // increased the use of bush meat. Although, data on bush meat use is not extensive, studies estimate 6 million tonnes of animals are taken for bush meat globally each year. What animals are hunted are done so indiscriminately without thought of the importance of certain species that could be eco-system engineers or keystone species. Bush meat is an important source of protein for millions in the DRC, especially in rural areas where it makes up 50-70% of meals and for some who cannot afford farmed produce it is a free meal. A recent study in the DRC revealed that almost
Congo’s Ebola outbreak poses challenges for bush meat. [SEP] Bushmeat // carcasses sold and consumed in Brazzaville in the Republic of the Congo belonged to great apes, it accounted for 2.23% of the biomass of the meat sold, which is significant for ape populations relative to their ecosystem. Furthermore, these numbers may not have accurately represented the extent of the problem for the following reasons: During the time interval between a study from 1981 to 1983 and another study between 1998–2002 in Gabon, ape population density fell 56%, despite the country retaining nearly 80% of its original forest cover. This decline was primarily associated with the transformation of the bushmeat trade
Congo’s Ebola outbreak poses challenges for bush meat. [SEP] Léon-Alfred Opimbat // number of people died of the Ebola virus, apparently due to eating primate meat, Opimbat announced a ban on the consumption of primate meat in the northwestern part of the country, near the Gabonese border, on 5 February 2002. In April 2002, he called for international aid to help thousands of people who had fled their homes in the Pool Region due to violence involving rebel Ninja militia fighters. In the May 2002 parliamentary election, Opimbat was elected to the National Assembly as the ACOSS candidate in Mbomo constituency; he won the seat in the first round with 59.08% of
Congo’s Ebola outbreak poses challenges for bush meat. [SEP] Ebola virus epidemic in Sierra Leone // raw meat or through droppings from the animals. It is the raw blood and meat that is thought to be more dangerous, so it is those that hunt and butcher the raw meat that are more at risk as opposed to cooked meat sold at market. Health care workers in Sierra Leone have been warned not to go to markets. In late March 2014 there were suspected but not confirmed cases in Sierra Leone. The government announced on 31 March 2014 that there were no cases in Sierra Leone. The epidemic is thought to have started in late May when
Congo’s Ebola outbreak poses challenges for bush meat. [SEP] Bushmeat // the Ebola virus in the Congo Basin and in Gabon in the 1990s have been associated with the butchering of apes and consumption of their meat. Bushmeat hunters in Central Africa infected with the human T-lymphotropic virus were closely exposed to wild primates. Results of research on wild chimpanzees in Cameroon indicate that they are naturally infected with the simian foamy virus and constitute a reservoir of HIV-1, a precursor of the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) in humans. There are several distinct strains of HIV, indicating that this cross-species transfer has occurred several times. Researchers have shown that HIV originated
Congo’s Ebola outbreak poses challenges for bush meat. [SEP] 2014 Democratic Republic of the Congo Ebola virus outbreak // remote northern Équateur province who fell ill after handling bushmeat. Despite treatment in a local clinic, the woman died on 11 August 2014. At the time of her death, her diagnosis was hemorrhagic fever of unknown etiology. Subsequent laboratory studies confirmed she had died of Ebola virus disease. Medecins Sans Frontieres/Doctors without Borders (MSF) deployed a team of 50 staff to the area and opened two treatment centres with a combined capacity of 50 beds. MSF, together with the country's Ministry of Health and the World Health Organization (WHO) worked to heighten public awareness and ensure that surveillance, contact tracing
Survey finds many ticks carry disease in North Dakota. [SEP] Lyme disease // (i.e. the typical rash found in about 70-80% of people infected). Outdoor workers are at risk of Lyme disease if they work at sites with infected ticks. In 2010, the highest number of confirmed Lyme disease cases were reported from New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Wisconsin, New York, Massachusetts, Connecticut, Minnesota, Maryland, Virginia, New Hampshire, Delaware, and Maine. U.S. workers in the northeastern and north-central States are at highest risk of exposure to infected ticks. Ticks may also transmit other tick-borne diseases to workers in these and other regions of the country. Worksites with woods, bushes, high grass, or leaf litter are
Survey finds many ticks carry disease in North Dakota. [SEP] Occupational exposure to Lyme disease // normally lives in mice, squirrels, and other small mammals. Cat fleas and ticks can carry pathogenic organisms that infect a person with Lyme disease and other tick-borne diseases. Outdoor workers are at risk of Lyme disease if they work at sites with infected ticks. In 2010, the highest number of confirmed Lyme disease cases were reported from New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Wisconsin, New York, Massachusetts, Connecticut, Minnesota, Maryland, Virginia, New Hampshire, Delaware, and Maine. U.S. workers in the northeastern and north-central States are at highest risk of exposure to infected ticks. Ticks may also transmit other tick-borne diseases to workers in
Survey finds many ticks carry disease in North Dakota. [SEP] Heartland virus // from five U.S. states: Arkansas, Indiana, Missouri, Oklahoma, and Tennessee. Most people infected were spending time outdoors in regions where ticks are endemic. Most infections are diagnosed between May and September. People usually report having been bitten by a tick within two weeks prior to seeking health care. Diagnosis is through the elimination of other causes of infectious diseases with related symptoms like ehrlichiosis and anaplasmosis or if the patient fails to respond to treatment with the antibiotic doxycycline. RT-PCR may then be used to detect viral ssRNA in the blood. Antibody titers against the virus may also be used
Survey finds many ticks carry disease in North Dakota. [SEP] Lyme disease // transmission is quite rare, with only about 1% of recognized tick bites resulting in Lyme disease. In Europe, the vector is "Ixodes ricinus", which is also called the sheep tick or castor bean tick. In China, "Ixodes persulcatus" (the taiga tick) is probably the most important vector. In North America, the black-legged tick or deer tick ("Ixodes scapularis") is the main vector on the East Coast. The lone star tick ("Amblyomma americanum"), which is found throughout the Southeastern United States as far west as Texas, is unlikely to transmit the Lyme disease spirochetes, though it may be implicated in a
Survey finds many ticks carry disease in North Dakota. [SEP] Longhorned tick // dogs, and humans. It is believed to migrate by parasitizing birds, which carry it to new areas. The longhorned tick can transmit an animal disease called theileriosis to cattle, which can cause considerable blood loss and occasional death of calves, but mainly is important to dairy farmers because of decreased milk production and sheep farmers because of decreased wool quantity and quality. Human diseases such as Lyme spirochetes, spotted fever group rickettsiae, "Ehrlichia chaffeensis", and "Anaplasma bovis" have been detected in "H. longicornis". It has been associated with Russian spring-summer encephalitis, Powassan virus, Khasan virus, tick-borne encephalitis virus, Japanese spotted
Survey finds many ticks carry disease in North Dakota. [SEP] Lyme disease microbiology // ticks in Sweden and "I. scapularis" ticks in the U.S. Apart from this group of closely related genospecies, additional "Borrelia" species of interest include "B. lonestari", a spirochete recently detected in the "Amblyomma americanum" tick (lone star tick) in the U.S. "B. lonestari" is suspected of causing southern tick-associated rash illness (STARI), also known as Masters disease in honor of its discoverer, Edwin Masters. The illness follows a lone star tick bite, and clinically resembles Lyme disease, but sufferers usually test negative for Lyme. Currently, no diagnostic test is available for STARI/Masters, and no official treatment protocol exists, though antibiotics
Survey finds many ticks carry disease in North Dakota. [SEP] Los Peñasquitos Lagoon // are often inadvertently transferred to hikers. Ticks can carry Lyme disease or Tularemia (rabbit fever). Lyme disease, if left untreated, can cause heart and brain disorders, including paraplegia in severe cases, and Tularemia can lead to incapacitating fever and in rare cases death. The canyon on the west side of Interstate 5 between Genesee Avenue and Sorrento Valley Road is particularly abundant with ticks, and a sign on the Del Mar trail near Carmel Valley Road warns hikers that ticks are found along that trail. Fortunately, Lyme disease happens to be "quite rare" in San Diego County, unlike most other
Survey finds many ticks carry disease in North Dakota. [SEP] Lyme disease // and 2–40% will have babesiosis. Ticks in certain regions, including the lands along the eastern Baltic Sea, also transmit tick-borne encephalitis. Coinfections complicate Lyme symptoms, especially diagnosis and treatment. It is possible for a tick to carry and transmit one of the coinfections and not "Borrelia", making diagnosis difficult and often elusive. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention studied 100 ticks in rural New Jersey, and found 55% of the ticks were infected with at least one of the pathogens. "B. burgdorferi" can spread throughout the body during the course of the disease, and has been found in the
Survey finds many ticks carry disease in North Dakota. [SEP] Tick-borne disease // public. Those wishing to know the incidence of tick-borne diseases in their town or state can search the LMZ surveillance database. Major tick-borne diseases include: Tick-borne disease Tick-borne diseases, which afflict humans and other animals, are caused by infectious agents transmitted by tick bites. Tick-borne illnesses are caused by infection with a variety of pathogens, including rickettsia and other types of bacteria, viruses, and protozoa. Because individual ticks can harbor more than one disease-causing agent, patients can be infected with more than one pathogen at the same time, compounding the difficulty in diagnosis and treatment. As of 2016, 16 tick-borne
Survey finds many ticks carry disease in North Dakota. [SEP] Lyme disease // of the "I. scapularis" tick will expand into Canada by 46 km/year over the next decade, with warming climatic temperatures as the main driver of increased speed of spread. A 2007 study suggests "Borrelia burgdorferi" infections are endemic to Mexico, from four cases reported between 1999 and 2000. Each year, approximately 30,000 new cases are reported to the CDC however, this number is likely underestimated. The CDC is currently conducting research on evaluation and diagnostics of the disease and preliminary results suggest the number of new cases to be around 300,000. Lyme disease is the most common tick-borne disease in
The administration raises revenue for nationalized health care through a series of new taxes, including a light switch tax that would cost every American household $3,128 a year. [SEP] Health care reforms proposed during the Obama administration // Medicine reported in September 2012 that approximately $750B per year in U.S. health care costs are avoidable or wasted. This included: unnecessary services ($210 billion annually); inefficient delivery of care ($130 billion); excess administrative costs ($190 billion); inflated prices ($105 billion); prevention failures ($55 billion), and fraud ($75 billion). During a June 2009 speech, President Barack Obama outlined his strategy for reform. He mentioned electronic record-keeping, preventing expensive conditions, reducing obesity, refocusing doctor incentives from quantity of care to quality, bundling payments for treatment of conditions rather than specific services, better identifying and communicating the most cost-effective treatments, and reducing
The administration raises revenue for nationalized health care through a series of new taxes, including a light switch tax that would cost every American household $3,128 a year. [SEP] Health care reforms proposed during the Obama administration // spent $8,233 on health per capita in 2010, two-and-a-half times more than the OECD average of $3,268 (adjusted for purchasing power parity). Following the United States were Norway and Switzerland which spent over $5,250 per capita. Americans spent more than twice as much as relatively rich European countries such as France, Sweden and the United Kingdom. The annual rate of cost increases slowed during 2010 and 2011. The causes are disputed, ranging from recession-related delays in visiting doctors to more long-term trends in moderating insurance premiums and reduced spending on structures and equipment. The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services
The administration raises revenue for nationalized health care through a series of new taxes, including a light switch tax that would cost every American household $3,128 a year. [SEP] Health care reforms proposed during the Obama administration // would reallocate the money currently spent on the administrative overhead required to run the hundreds of insurance companies in the U.S. to provide universal care. An often-cited study by Harvard Medical School and the Canadian Institute for Health Information determined that some 31 percent of U.S. health care dollars, or more than $1,000 per person per year, went to health care administrative costs. Other estimates are lower. One study of the billing and insurance-related (BIR) costs borne not only by insurers but also by physicians and hospitals found that BIR among insurers, physicians, and hospitals in California represented 20–22% of
The administration raises revenue for nationalized health care through a series of new taxes, including a light switch tax that would cost every American household $3,128 a year. [SEP] America's Healthy Future Act // the co-ops is intended to drive health care costs downward. The proposal also creates an individual mandate that requires people to either buy insurance or pay a penalty. Those with incomes below three times the federal poverty level would receive subsidies to purchase their plans. For a family of four, $66,150 would be the dividing line. The penalty would be up to $950 per person or $3,800 per family each year. These measures would come into effect for all American residents in 2013. According to "Politico": Sen. John Ensign (R-Nev.) received a handwritten note Thursday from Joint Committee on Taxation
The administration raises revenue for nationalized health care through a series of new taxes, including a light switch tax that would cost every American household $3,128 a year. [SEP] United States National Health Care Act // of the National Health Care Act includes the following elements, among others: An analysis of the bill by Physicians for a National Health Program estimated the immediate savings at $350 billion per year. Others have estimated a long-term savings amounting to 40% of all national health expenditures due the extended preventive healthcare and the elimination of insurance company overhead costs. A study by Harvard University and the Canadian Institute for Health Information estimated the 1999 costs of U.S. health care administration at nearly $300 billion, accounting for 30.1% of health care expenses, versus 16.7% in Canada. This study estimated the
The administration raises revenue for nationalized health care through a series of new taxes, including a light switch tax that would cost every American household $3,128 a year. [SEP] Health care prices in the United States // The Federal Government subsidizes the employer-based market by an estimated $250 billion per year (about $1,612 per person covered in the employer market), by excluding health insurance premiums from employee income. This subsidy encourages people to buy more extensive coverage (which places upward pressure on average premiums), while also encouraging more young, healthy people to enroll (which places downward pressure on premium prices). CBO estimates the net effect is to increase premiums 10-15% over an un-subsidized level. The Kaiser Family Foundation estimated that family insurance premiums averaged $18,142 in 2016, up 3% from 2015, with workers paying $5,277 towards that
The administration raises revenue for nationalized health care through a series of new taxes, including a light switch tax that would cost every American household $3,128 a year. [SEP] Single-payer healthcare // taxes would have to increase by $1,261 per capita" in order to pay for the plan. A July 1993 scoring also resulted in positive outcomes, with the CBO stating that, "[a]s the program was phased in, the administrative savings from switching to a single-payer system would offset much of the increased demand for health care services. Later, the cap on the growth of the national health budget would hold the rate of growth of spending below the baseline." The CBO also scored Sen. Paul Wellstone's American Health and Security Act of 1993 in December 1993, finding that "by year five
The administration raises revenue for nationalized health care through a series of new taxes, including a light switch tax that would cost every American household $3,128 a year. [SEP] History of health care reform in the United States // approximately $1.0 trillion. Over the same ten-year period from 2010 to 2019, the CBO estimated that the bill would reduce the number of uninsured Americans by approximately 16 million. At about the same time, the Associated Press reported that the CBO had given Congressional officials an estimate of $1.6 trillion for the cost of a companion measure being developed by the Senate Finance Committee. In response to these estimates, the Senate Finance Committee delayed action on its bill and began work on reducing the cost of the proposal to $1.0 trillion, and the debate over the Affordable Health Choices act
The administration raises revenue for nationalized health care through a series of new taxes, including a light switch tax that would cost every American household $3,128 a year. [SEP] Health care in the United States // insurance tends to provide either partial or no coverage of most services. Total out of pocket costs in 1997 were estimated to be about $27.0 billion. The U.S. spends more as a percentage of GDP than similar countries, and this can be explained either through higher prices for services themselves, higher costs to administer the system, or more utilization of these services, or to a combination of these elements. Health care costs rising far faster than inflation have been a major driver for health care reform in the United States. As of 2016, the US spent $3.3 trillion (17.9% of
The administration raises revenue for nationalized health care through a series of new taxes, including a light switch tax that would cost every American household $3,128 a year. [SEP] America's Healthy Future Act // are more expensive and comprehensive than the majority of plans. Any plan costing over $8,000 for an individual and $21,000 for a family would be subject to a 35 percent tax on the amount past those levels. The Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a liberal-leaning think tank, estimated that about 10 percent of families have plans that would be subject to the tax. The Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget has argued that this tax is beneficial both because it grows fast enough to keep up with new costs and because it can helps to slow health care cost
Donald Trump owned stock in Thermo-Fisher Scientific at a time when his presidential administration was advocating for a COVID-19 test that uses Thermo-Fisher equipment. [SEP] Thermo Fisher Scientific // Thermo Fisher Scientific Thermo Fisher Scientific is an American biotechnology product development company located in Waltham, Massachusetts, and was created in 2006 by the merger of Thermo Electron and Fisher Scientific. In April 2013, after a competitive bidding with Hoffmann-La Roche, Thermo Fisher acquired Life Technologies Corporation for US$13.6 billion in a deal that would rank the firm as one of the leading companies in the genetic testing and precision laboratory equipment markets. Thermo Electron was co-founded in 1956 by George N. Hatsopoulos and Peter M Nomikos. Hatsopoulos is a MIT PhD in mechanical engineering and Nomikos a Harvard Business
Donald Trump owned stock in Thermo-Fisher Scientific at a time when his presidential administration was advocating for a COVID-19 test that uses Thermo-Fisher equipment. [SEP] Fisher Scientific // 2004. In May 2006, Fisher Scientific and Thermo Electron announced that they would merge in a tax-free, stock-for-stock exchange. The merger closed on November 9, 2006 and the merged company is now called Thermo Fisher Scientific. The company was founded in Pittsburgh in 1902 by Chester Garfield Fisher (1881-1965), originally called the "Scientific Materials Co.". After obtaining his degree in engineering at Western University of Pennsylvania (now University of Pittsburgh), C.G. Fisher purchased the stockroom of the Pittsburgh Testing Laboratory. Fisher became a supplier of lab equipment and reagents for the area's industrial research. Early products included microscopes, burets, pipettes,
Donald Trump owned stock in Thermo-Fisher Scientific at a time when his presidential administration was advocating for a COVID-19 test that uses Thermo-Fisher equipment. [SEP] Thermo Fisher Scientific // School graduate. It focused on providing analytical and laboratory products and services, and had revenues of over $2 billion in 2004. Fisher Scientific was founded in 1902 by Chester G. Fisher from Pittsburgh. It focused on providing laboratory equipment, chemicals, supplies and services used in healthcare, scientific research, safety, and education. On May 14, 2006, Thermo Electron and Fisher Scientific announced that they would merge in a tax-free, stock-for-stock exchange; the merged company was named Thermo Fisher Scientific. On November 9, 2006, the companies announced that the merger had been completed. However, the Federal Trade Commission ruled that this acquisition
Donald Trump owned stock in Thermo-Fisher Scientific at a time when his presidential administration was advocating for a COVID-19 test that uses Thermo-Fisher equipment. [SEP] Thermo Electron // Fisher Scientific announced that they would merge in a tax-free, stock-for-stock exchange. The merged company became Thermo Fisher Scientific. On November 9, 2006, the companies announced that the merger had been completed. However, the Federal Trade Commission ruled that this acquisition was anticompetitive with regard to centrifugal evaporators, requiring Fisher to divest Genevac. In April 2007, Genevac was sold to Riverlake Partners LLC and the merger closed with FTC approval. Thermo Electron Thermo Electron Corporation (NYSE: TMO) (incorporated 1956) was a major provider of analytical instruments and services for a variety of domains. It was co-founded in 1956 by George
Donald Trump owned stock in Thermo-Fisher Scientific at a time when his presidential administration was advocating for a COVID-19 test that uses Thermo-Fisher equipment. [SEP] Thermo Fisher Scientific // 2017, the company acquired Finesse Solutions, Inc., developer of scalable control automation systems and software for bioproduction after receiving early termination of the waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act. The transaction was completed a day later. In March, the company announced it would acquire Core Informatics, provider of cloud-based platforms supporting scientific data management. In May, the company announced it would acquire CDMO, Patheon, for $7.2 billion. As of 2017, the company had revenues of $20.9 billion and was a Fortune 500 company. In September 2018, Thermo Fisher Scientific announced it had signed a definitive agreement with BD
Donald Trump owned stock in Thermo-Fisher Scientific at a time when his presidential administration was advocating for a COVID-19 test that uses Thermo-Fisher equipment. [SEP] Cole-Parmer // and to a facility eight years later. That same year, Cole-Parmer acquired Masterflex peristaltic pumps, followed shortly by the purchases of Gilmont Instruments and Manostat Pumps. They were acquired by Fisher Scientific, now Thermo-Fisher Scientific, in 2001. On July 17, 2014, Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. agreed to sell one of its lab units, Cole-Parmer, to private-equity firm GTCR for $480 million in cash. The company has previously said its $13.6 billion acquisition of Life Technologies Corp. would allow it to cut costs while gaining from next-generation genetic-sequencing machines. It has also sought to expand in Asia-Pacific markets. Domestically, Cole-Parmer operates
Donald Trump owned stock in Thermo-Fisher Scientific at a time when his presidential administration was advocating for a COVID-19 test that uses Thermo-Fisher equipment. [SEP] Marijn Dekkers // became a director at the Boston-based Thermo Electron Corporation, one of the world's leading specialists in the manufacture of laboratory instruments. Within a short time, Dekkers implemented a complete corporate reorganization and became President and CEO in 2002. In this role, he initiated further extensive restructuring measures, divesting various organizational units and strengthening the company's core business by means of targeted acquisitions, including the purchase in 2006 of the laboratory consumables supplier Fisher Scientific. After the acquisition, the company renamed as Thermo Fisher Scientific, which employed 30,000 people in six business groups. On 1 January 2010 Dekkers was appointed to
Donald Trump owned stock in Thermo-Fisher Scientific at a time when his presidential administration was advocating for a COVID-19 test that uses Thermo-Fisher equipment. [SEP] Thermo Fisher Scientific // Scientific Inc. bought Phadia to expand in testing for allergies and autoimmune diseases for €2.47 billion ($3.5 billion) in cash purchase. In 2013 Thermo Fisher agreed to buy Life Technologies for $13.6 billion. The sale was completed on 4 February 2014, and the Life Technologies brand became part of the Life Sciences Solutions Group of Thermo Fisher Scientific. In February 2015, the company announced it would acquire Advanced Scientifics for $300 million in a cash-deal. ASI designs, manufactures and delivers technologies used in bioprocessing solutions. In June 2015, the company announced its intention to acquire Alfa Aesar, a global manufacturer
Donald Trump owned stock in Thermo-Fisher Scientific at a time when his presidential administration was advocating for a COVID-19 test that uses Thermo-Fisher equipment. [SEP] Fisher Scientific // apparatus supply company E. Machlett & Sons. In 1962, the company installed an IBM computer system to record and track inventory levels for more than 40,000 items. Fisher Scientific Company issued its first public stock in 1965, and that year the company had $58 million in sales and close to a million customer transactions. In 1968 Fisher shares were listed on the New York Stock Exchange. In 1965 the company introduced the Differential Thermalyzer, a Differential thermal analysis instrument. It acquired Pfeiffer Glass, Inc. in 1966, manufacturer of high accuracy volumetric pipettes. The company released the Photometric Titralyzer that year,
Donald Trump owned stock in Thermo-Fisher Scientific at a time when his presidential administration was advocating for a COVID-19 test that uses Thermo-Fisher equipment. [SEP] Thermo Fisher Scientific // of research chemicals for $405 million from Johnson Matthey, and the acquisition was completed at the end of September In January 2016, the company announced it would acquire Affymetrix for $1.3 billion. On May 27, 2016, the company announced it would acquire FEI Company for $4.2 billion, a manufacturer of electron microscopes. This acquisition is anticipated to close in early 2017 and will contribute to the growth of Thermo's Analytical Instruments business group. In November the company announced it would acquire MTI-GlobalStem, a previously privately held company that develops reagents for cell transfection, neurobiology and stem cell research. In February
‘Hippie’ island off Seattle sees shift in low vaccine rate. [SEP] Health in the United States // allow personal or philosophical opposition to vaccination. Over the last decade vaccination rates have been declining in the United States. Although the rate is fairly limited on a larger scale, vaccine-preventable disease outbreaks are occurring in pockets across the U.S. “In 2012, exemption rates ranged from a low of approximately 0.45 percent in New Mexico, to a high of 6.5 percent in Oregon. The outbreaks have significant correlations with unvaccinated children, and state policy exemption processes. California, which is currently in the process of changing their state exemption policies, dealt with a recent, 2015, measles outbreak stemming from the popular
‘Hippie’ island off Seattle sees shift in low vaccine rate. [SEP] Hepatitis // resource countries with inadequate public sanitation and large concentrated populations. In such regions, as much as 90% of children younger than 10 years old have been infected and are immune, corresponding both to lower rates of clinically symptomatic disease and outbreaks. The availability of a childhood vaccine has significantly reduced infections in the United States, with incidence declining by more than 95% as of 2013. Paradoxically, the highest rates of new infection now occur in young adults and adults who present with worse clinical illness. Specific populations at greatest risk include: travelers to endemic regions, men who have sex with
‘Hippie’ island off Seattle sees shift in low vaccine rate. [SEP] Waldorf education // Goetheanistic approach to science. In states such as Texas, Vermont, Washington and California – where vaccine exemption is legal – Waldorf schools were reported to have a high rate of vaccine exemption within their student populations. A 2010 report by the UK Government noted that Steiner schools should be considered "high risk populations" and "unvaccinated communities" with respect to children's risks of catching measles and contributing to outbreaks. On November 19, 2018, the BBC reported there was an outbreak of chickenpox in 36 students at the Asheville Waldorf School located in North Carolina. Out of 152 students at the school,
‘Hippie’ island off Seattle sees shift in low vaccine rate. [SEP] Seattle Waldorf School // of North America (AWSNA). A news article published by the Seattle Times, based in data from the 2011-2012 school year, revealed that the Seattle Waldorf School held the highest vaccination exemption rate for schools in the Greater Seattle Area of 39.8 percent. 128 out of 130 exemptions were submitted by parents of students for non- medical or religious justifications. Seattle Waldorf School Seattle Waldorf School is a private, Waldorf school serving grades preschool through 12 with an enrollment of 300 students. It was founded in 1980 and absorbed Hazel Wolf High School in 2007. The high school grades are located
‘Hippie’ island off Seattle sees shift in low vaccine rate. [SEP] Australian Vaccination-risks Network // compared to the national average of over 90%. In 2016 a recent National Health Performance Authority report showed the region's average vaccination rate for 5 year olds was reportedly still the lowest in the country at 89.2%. The North Coast Assistant Public Health Director warned "Pockets of unvaccinated people in the region was the cause for the rise and fall in whooping cough cases... because we do not have herd immunity to the illness on the Northern Rivers". The Australian Vaccination-Skeptics Network believes that vaccines contain a variety of toxic ingredients that have no place in the human body. The
‘Hippie’ island off Seattle sees shift in low vaccine rate. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic timeline // that inoculation rates varied, with the highest rates in New England and the lowest in the South. (E.g., roughly 39% of the population of Rhode Island is immunized vis-à-vis 13% that of Mississippi.) Among children Georgia had the lowest vaccination rate, with 21%; the state currently has the highest level of H1N1 flu activity. US According to the CDC, only three states have reported regional influenza activity: Alabama, Georgia, and South Carolina. US According to the CDC, only three states have reported regional influenza activity: Alabama, Georgia, and South Carolina. Guinea First case confirmed. WHO An external panel advises against
‘Hippie’ island off Seattle sees shift in low vaccine rate. [SEP] Tryon Island // Hamilton Harlow. In 1968 Harold Frederick Manning was also given a lease for the below low water mark on the northwestern corner of Tryon reef. At the end of 1969, Graeme Laver, Professor of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology at the Australian National University in Canberra, organised a trip to Tryon Island and discovered that seabirds on the Great Barrier Reef are riddled with influenza viruses. He collected sera from 201 shearwaters, tested them on the spot, and to his surprise, he discovered some birds had antibodies against antigens of Influenzavirus A and some of these avian antibodies are inhibitory to
‘Hippie’ island off Seattle sees shift in low vaccine rate. [SEP] Northern Rivers Vaccination Supporters // In 2016 the World Health Organization (WHO) endorsed the NRVS website as a reliable source of information about vaccines and vaccine safety. The Northern Rivers region of the Australian state of New South Wales has some of the lowest vaccination rates in Australia. As of 2013, the Northern Rivers town of Mullumbimby had the lowest rate of childhood vaccinations in Australia, with under 50% of one, two and five year-old children fully vaccinated. Rachel Heap has described the Northern Rivers region as a place where ""it is not only socially acceptable to refuse vaccination, but supporting vaccination carries the risk
‘Hippie’ island off Seattle sees shift in low vaccine rate. [SEP] Whooping cough // and cases. The number of exemptions varied widely among communities, but tended to be highly clustered. In some schools, more than three-fourths of parents filed for vaccination exemptions. The data suggest vaccine refusal based on nonmedical reasons and personal belief exacerbated the outbreak. Other factors included reduced duration of immunity following the acellular vaccine and, the fact that most vaccinated adults and older children had not received a booster shot. In April and May 2012 pertussis was declared to be at epidemic levels in Washington, with 3,308 cases. In December 2012 Vermont declared an epidemic of 522 cases. Wisconsin had
‘Hippie’ island off Seattle sees shift in low vaccine rate. [SEP] Betty Lowman Carey // United States Coast Guard found the canoe floating in the vicinity of the San Juan Islands, Washington. After no owner claimed it, Lowman's father, Ray, acquired it, her brothers painted it red, strengthened it with four oak ribs, fitted it with oarlocks, and Ray gave it to Betty on her 18th birthday. Four years later she departed with a friend on June 15, 1937, from the north beach on Guemes Island, Washington, against her father's wishes, and arrived solo in Ketchikan on August 19, 66 days later. Her friend, Florence Steele, returned home after a week when her smallpox vaccination
Health officials disclose another romaine outbreak, now over. [SEP] Romaine lettuce // disease agent was Shiga toxin-producing . The most recent illness started on December 12, 2017; the PHA declared the outbreak over on January 10, 2018, and the CDC declared it over on January 25. In response to another "E. coli" O157:H7 outbreak, which probably began in mid-March 2018, the CDC recommended in April 2018 that consumers not buy or eat romaine lettuce unless they could confirm it was not from the Yuma, Arizona, growing region. On May 22, 2018, after a month-long warning, the CDC announced it was now safe to consume romaine again. The outbreak killed five people and
Health officials disclose another romaine outbreak, now over. [SEP] 2018 Romaine lettuce E. coli O157:H7 outbreak // 2018 Romaine lettuce E. coli O157:H7 outbreak In 2018, a strain of "Escherichia coli" bacteria caused the reported illness of 210 people across 36 states in the US, carried on Romaine lettuce from Yuma, Arizona. This strain produces shiga toxin, which is thought to have been transferred to the species from a strain of "Shigella" by a bacteriophage, a kind of virus that (as the name implies) "eats" bacteria. On or after April 16, 2018, cases of food poisoning began to be reported in the New York State area. The CDC eventually concluded this was an example of O157:H7, its
Health officials disclose another romaine outbreak, now over. [SEP] Romaine lettuce // caused 89 hospitalizations across 32 states. In June 2018, the FDA traced the source of the latest "E. coli" outbreak to water from a canal located in Yuma, Arizona. In November 2018, the US CDC and the PHA of Canada issued a warning to consumers that romaine lettuce should not be consumed in any form, and that they should dispose of any currently on hand. The same strain of "E. coli" identified in the 2017-2018 outbreak was implicated. At least 43 people became ill in this outbreak, which the FDA traced to one of six counties in Central California: Monterey,
Health officials disclose another romaine outbreak, now over. [SEP] 2018 Romaine lettuce E. coli O157:H7 outbreak // code for a strain of "E. coli "that is noteworthy for seeming to have genes from a different but related species, "Shigella", producing an unusual toxin, though not one especially lethal to human beings. List of foodborne illness outbreaks in the United States 2018 Romaine lettuce E. coli O157:H7 outbreak In 2018, a strain of "Escherichia coli" bacteria caused the reported illness of 210 people across 36 states in the US, carried on Romaine lettuce from Yuma, Arizona. This strain produces shiga toxin, which is thought to have been transferred to the species from a strain of "Shigella" by a
Health officials disclose another romaine outbreak, now over. [SEP] 2011 Germany E. coli O104:H4 outbreak // for Risk Assessment), an institute of the German Federal Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Consumer Protection, announced that seeds of organic fenugreek imported from Egypt were likely the source of the outbreak. In all, 3,950 people were affected and 53 died, 51 of whom were in Germany. 800 people suffered hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS), which can lead to kidney failure. A handful of cases were reported in several other countries including Switzerland, Poland, the Netherlands, Sweden, Denmark, the UK, Canada and the USA. Essentially all affected people had been in Germany or France shortly before becoming ill. Initially, German officials
Health officials disclose another romaine outbreak, now over. [SEP] Listeriosis // 26, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reported that a total of 72 persons had been infected with the four outbreak-associated strains of Listeria monocytogenes which had been reported to the CDC from 18 states. All illnesses started on or after July 31, 2011 and by September 26, thirteen deaths had been reported: 2 in Colorado, 1 in Kansas, 1 in Maryland, 1 in Missouri, 1 in Nebraska, 4 in New Mexico, 1 in Oklahoma, and 2 in Texas. On September 30, 2011, a random sample of romaine lettuce taken by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration tested positive
Health officials disclose another romaine outbreak, now over. [SEP] Chipotle Mexican Grill // publicized at that time. Seattle public health officials defended their actions at that time by saying that the outbreak was over by the time they made an association with Chipotle. Health officials were unable to trace the source of the July outbreak and said that the cause of the July outbreak is unrelated to the October/November outbreak. Another norovirus outbreak was confirmed to have occurred in August 2015 at a Simi Valley, California location in which 80 customers and 18 employees reported becoming ill. Ventura County health inspectors found various health violations during two inspections following the outbreak report. Despite
Health officials disclose another romaine outbreak, now over. [SEP] 2011 Germany E. coli O104:H4 outbreak // have been limited in origin to the greater Hamburg area and declared any product ban would be disproportionate. He also said he is working with Agriculture Commissioner Dacian Cioloş "to address the hardship faced by this group of our citizens that has also been hit hard by the "E. coli" outbreak". He also said, "In the future, we need to see how the timing of the alerts can be closer to the actual scientific basis and proof." By 7 June, EU Ministers held an emergency meeting in Luxembourg to discuss the growing crisis, which had left 23 people dead, and
Health officials disclose another romaine outbreak, now over. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic timeline // with the same S-OIV strain detected in two California children. The PAHO is informed that a cluster in Mexico of severe respiratory illnesses has been laboratory-confirmed as S-OIV infection. The WHO issues its first Disease Outbreak Notice on the matter, confirming the infection of a number of people in Mexico and the United States by "Swine Influenza A/H1N1 viruses... not... previously detected in pigs or humans". The Minister of Health confirms the Mexican cases of human infection by swine influenza and states that it believes that some of these cases had resulted in death. Health authorities implement public health measures
Health officials disclose another romaine outbreak, now over. [SEP] 2006 North American E. coli O157:H7 outbreak in spinach // was detected on Friday September 8 in one state, and the second cluster emerged in the second state on Wednesday September 13, by which time PulseNet had also identified potential associated cases in other states. The OutbreakNet, a group of state public health officers who investigate foodborne infection outbreaks, shared information with CDC that indicated that Oregon and Wisconsin were considering the same hypothesis: fresh spinach was the possible vehicle of infection. The group tracked and updated the increasing case count and exposure information. During a multistate call on Thursday, September 14, the group noted that the data strongly suggested
Two-thirds of the top-rated hospitals in Florida were our hospitals. [SEP] South Miami, Florida // one of seven hospitals in the Baptist Health South Florida system. The hospital was recognized as a Magnet Hospital for Nursing Excellence in 2004 and again in 2008, by the American Nurses Credentialing Center. It was also on Solucient's list of top 100 hospitals in the country and earned the Florida Governor's Sterling Award in 2010. It was named the No. 1 hospital in South Florida by "U.S. News & World Report" in 2012, and ranked No. 42 in the country in geriatrics and No. 47 in orthopedics. The Hospital features an addiction treatment program, a cardiac catheterization lab, a
Two-thirds of the top-rated hospitals in Florida were our hospitals. [SEP] Florida Hospital Heartland Medical Center // three better, seven average and two worse. FHHMC was awarded the 2012 HealthGrades Orthopedics Surgery Award. Patient satisfaction ratings for the hospital are sparse and are listed on a number of websites. However, since they are few in number and not based on objective survey questions, they tend to be anecdotal and possibly not dependable. FHHMC has outlying physician offices and clinics in a large number of places in Sebring and Avon Park. Many of these are on Sun N' Lake Boulevard, across the street from the hospital campus. These include various administrative offices and various physician offices. Also, on
Two-thirds of the top-rated hospitals in Florida were our hospitals. [SEP] Mayo Clinic Florida // hospital care . In a 2008 examination of 5,453 United States hospitals, US News & World Report ranked the facility 23rd in adult specialization for rheumatology and 46th in adult specialization for gastrointestinal disorders.. In another U.S. News rating, Mayo Clinic Jacksonville was rated as a Nationally Ranked Hospital in 7 Adult Specialties, a Regionally Ranked Hospital #1 in Florida and #1 in the Jacksonville metro area, and Rated High Performing in 3 Adult Specialties and 9 Adult Procedures/Conditions . The three main buildings are the Davis Building, the Mayo Building (including the hospital) and the Cannaday Building. They are
Two-thirds of the top-rated hospitals in Florida were our hospitals. [SEP] Bartow Regional Medical Center // HealthGrades provided data on rated patient outcomes in eighteen specialties. Outcomes for these specialties while patients were still in the hospital were rated. Fifteen of these specialties were rated as average (3 stars). None was rated as worse (1 star) and three were rated better than average (5 stars). It should be pointed out this rating scheme only allows three options to be recorded, 1, 3 or 5 stars; there are no options of giving 2 or 4 stars. Bartow Regional Medical Center Bartow Regional Medical Center is a hospital in Bartow, Florida. It is owned by non-profit health care
Two-thirds of the top-rated hospitals in Florida were our hospitals. [SEP] Our Lady of Bellefonte Hospital // Award in the first year it was awarded in 2009 and received it again for six straight years. The distinction indicates a hospital is among the nation's top 15 percent in patient experience. To identify the top-performing hospitals, HealthGrades analyzed survey results for hospitals nationwide that participated in a federal initiative by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services' Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services. For four of those years (from 2010-13), OLBH ranked among the top five percent in the nation for patient experience based on an analysis of patient surveys from 3,775 hospitals. In 2015, the Kentucky
Two-thirds of the top-rated hospitals in Florida were our hospitals. [SEP] UF Health Shands Hospital // research institutions devoted to the challenges resulting from brain and nervous system disorders. In 2004, Shands at the University of Florida once again joined the prestigious ranks of America's top medical institutions in the 15th annual U.S. News & World Report guide to "America's Top Hospitals." Included among the nation's 50 top academic medical centers, Shands at UF is recognized in 12 clinical specialty areas in 2012's comprehensive report for excellence. Specialty Ranks: Urology (20), Pulmonology (31), Neurology & Neurosurgery (32), Cancer (36), Nephrology (37), Gastroenterology (41), Cardiology & Heart Surgery (47). The following specialties were also recognized as being
Two-thirds of the top-rated hospitals in Florida were our hospitals. [SEP] Tampa, Florida // host to over 20 hospitals, four trauma centers, and multiple Cancer treatment centers. Three of the area's hospitals were ranked among "America's best hospitals" by US News and World Report. Tampa is also home to many health research institutions. The major hospitals in Tampa include Tampa General Hospital, St. Joseph's Children's & Women's Hospital, James A. Haley Veterans Hospital, H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center & Research Institute, and The Pepin Heart Institute. Shriners Hospitals for Children is based in Tampa. USF's Byrd Alzheimer's Institute is both a prominent research facility and Alzheimer's patient care center in Tampa. Along with human
Two-thirds of the top-rated hospitals in Florida were our hospitals. [SEP] Florida Hospital Heartland Medical Center // fountain was put into it. The lake has at times been home to alligators, various birds and fish and to large turtles. The smaller lake was only somewhat landscaped and is the only one where fishing is allowed. These are known as Florida Hospital lakes. The administrator of the hospital also serves as the administrator of the Florida Hospital Heartland Division, of which FHHMC is the largest part. Hoovers says FHHMC has 1,200 employees. The HealthGrades website provides information about FHHMC's scores on twelve patient safety indicators. There are three possible ratings: better, average and worse. FHHMC's latest score was
Two-thirds of the top-rated hospitals in Florida were our hospitals. [SEP] Larkin Community Hospital // W 49th Pl, Hialeah, FL 33012. In 2013 LCH was named Top Urban Hospital by The Leapfrog Group. The Top Hospitals award is widely recognized as the nations most competitive hospital quality award. Larkin Community Hospital Larkin Community Hospital (LCH) is a for-profit 146-bed general medical, surgical and psychiatric teaching hospital. In the last year with available data, LCH had about 7,523 emergency department visits and 5,792 admissions. Physicians at the hospital performed 794 inpatient and 739 outpatient surgeries. LCH is the only hospital in Miami-Dade County with an Area of Critical Need designation by the Florida Board of Medicine.
Two-thirds of the top-rated hospitals in Florida were our hospitals. [SEP] U.S. News & World Report Best Hospitals Rankings // differently, with 8% of graded hospitals having a similar position in each other's rankings. In larger urban areas with multiple hospitals, the two ranking systems made different recommendations in 81% of cases. U.S. News & World Report Best Hospitals Rankings The U.S. News & World Report Best Hospitals Rankings is a hospital rating publication of "U.S. News & World Report". In 1997 one research team said that the value of the ratings were limited because at that time public medical data was difficult to access, and a lack of quality data limited the usefulness of any ratings. In 2001 a
A polio vaccination campaign headed by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation in India led to 47,500 cases of paralysis. [SEP] Global Polio Eradication Initiative // conducting surveillance through investigation of acute flaccid paralysis cases among children under 15 years old (in order to determine areas where the virus is truly eradicated), and conducting "mop up" campaigns in areas where cases of polio have been identified. By 2012 the GPEI had raised 9 billion dollars in funding and in alone 2011 the GPEI received a 1.1 billion dollars, for a budget of 0.98 billion dollars. 30% of their funding came from the Gates Foundation 30% from developed governments, 27% from countries at risk of polio, and the rest was made up of donations from non profits,
A polio vaccination campaign headed by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation in India led to 47,500 cases of paralysis. [SEP] India National PolioPlus // International in their biggest humanitarian initiative to rid the world of Polio. In a major boost to the eradication campaign, the Gates Foundation contributed a whopping US $355 million. Rotary International accepted to raise US $200 million against the Gates Foundation grant by June 2012. Rotary help raise the matching grant exceeding the challenge. On 13 January 2012, India surpassed one year without detecting a single case of poliovirus. On 27 March 2014, the World Health Organization (WHO) is expected to certify India as a polio free country, marking more than three years since the last case of polio there.
A polio vaccination campaign headed by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation in India led to 47,500 cases of paralysis. [SEP] Poliomyelitis eradication // of cVDPV2 from arising and allow eventual cessation of WPV2 vaccination. There were 22 reported WPV1 polio cases with onset of paralysis in 2017, down from 37 in 2016. Eight of the cases were in Pakistan and 14 in Afghanistan, where genetic typing showed repeated introduction from Pakistan as well as local transmission. In Pakistan, transmission of several genetic lineages of WPV1 seen in 2015 had been interrupted by September 2017, though at least two genetic clusters remain. In spite of a significant drop in detected cases in Pakistan, there was an increase in the percentage of environmental samples that
A polio vaccination campaign headed by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation in India led to 47,500 cases of paralysis. [SEP] Poliomyelitis eradication // International Development (USAID)—launched its effort to support national eradication efforts at the grassroots level. The CORE Group initiated this initiative in Bangladesh, India and Nepal in South Asia, and in Angola, Ethiopia and Uganda in Africa. By 2001, 575 million children (almost one-tenth the world's population) had received some 2 billion doses of oral polio vaccine. The World Health Organization announced that Europe was polio-free on 21 June 2002, in the Copenhagen Glyptotek. In 2002, an outbreak of polio occurred in India. The number of planned polio vaccination campaigns had recently been reduced, and populations in northern India, particularly from
A polio vaccination campaign headed by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation in India led to 47,500 cases of paralysis. [SEP] Poliomyelitis in Pakistan // these challenges, organizations including the WHO, United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), CDC, Rotary International, and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation pulled together to develop and fund intensive eradication campaigns, including door-to-door vaccinations. In March 2001, about 27 million children were vaccinated across the country in the hope that Pakistan could be virus-free by the end of that year. As of 2004, when there were 30 million children in Pakistan under five, about 200,000 health workers were required for a vaccination campaign that was carried out eight times a year. A documentary, "Polio True Stories", was aired on several television
A polio vaccination campaign headed by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation in India led to 47,500 cases of paralysis. [SEP] Poliomyelitis eradication // and 20 in Afghanistan. There were 32 circulating vaccine-derived poliovirus (cVDPV) cases in 2015. On 25 September 2015, the WHO declared that Nigeria was no longer considered endemic for wild polio virus, with no reported case of wild polio virus having been reported since 24 July 2014. A WPV1 strain not seen in 5 years resurfaced in Nigeria the following year. WPV2 was declared eradicated in September 2015 as it has not been seen since 1999 and WPV3 may be eradicated as it has not been seen since 2012. cVDPV type 2 was still causing paralysis in some countries due
A polio vaccination campaign headed by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation in India led to 47,500 cases of paralysis. [SEP] Pulse Polio // polio eradication efforts. In 1998, in Bhavnagar district of Gujarat, immunisation officers reported that 98 children out of the total of 2,000 missed the vaccine. Health workers were first prevented from coming to village. Later, when the booths were established and the program started, many parents did not bring their children. According to them, children from their village developed polio-paralysis even after the immunisation. Health officers who visited a village in West Bengal saw utter discontent among the people as they stated that two children contracted the virus after the vaccine. In another instance, parents of a two-and-a-half-year-old child who
A polio vaccination campaign headed by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation in India led to 47,500 cases of paralysis. [SEP] Polio vaccine // A global effort to eradicate polio, led by the World Health Organization, UNICEF, and The Rotary Foundation, began in 1988 and has relied largely on the oral polio vaccine developed by Albert Sabin and Mikhail Chumakov (Sabin-Chumakov vaccine). Polio was eliminated in the Americas by 1994. The disease was officially eliminated in 36 Western Pacific countries, including China and Australia, in 2000. Europe was declared polio-free in 2002. Since January 2011, no cases of the disease have been reported in India, hence in February 2012, the country was taken off the WHO list of polio-endemic countries. In March 2014, India
A polio vaccination campaign headed by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation in India led to 47,500 cases of paralysis. [SEP] Polio vaccine // Medicine. Other important advances that led to the development of polio vaccines were: the identification of three poliovirus serotypes (Poliovirus type 1 — PV1, or Mahoney; PV2, Lansing; and PV3, Leon); the finding that prior to paralysis, the virus must be present in the blood; and the demonstration that administration of antibodies in the form of gamma globulin protects against paralytic polio. During the early 1950s, polio rates in the U.S. were above 25,000 annually; in 1952 and 1953, the U.S. experienced an outbreak of 58,000 and 35,000 polio cases, respectively, up from a typical number of some 20,000 a
A polio vaccination campaign headed by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation in India led to 47,500 cases of paralysis. [SEP] Poliomyelitis eradication // India and Pakistan are not polio free", declared Health Minister ASM Matiur Rahman. (See: ) In 2007 there were 1,315 cases of poliomyelitis reported worldwide. Over 60% of cases (874) occurred in India; while in Nigeria, the number of polio cases fell dramatically, from 1,122 cases reported in 2006 to 285 cases in 2007. Officials credit the drop in new infections to improved political control in the southern states and resumed immunisation in the north, where Muslim clerics led a boycott of vaccination in late 2003. Local governments and clerics allowed vaccinations to resume on the condition that the vaccines
Death toll from acute encephalitis in east Indian town rises to 129 children. [SEP] Baba Raghav Das Medical College // the neighbouring country of Nepal, come to the hospital for treatment. According to a 2017 estimate, the BRD Medical College treats over 60% of the encephalitis cases in India, and receives 2500–3000 encephalitis patients every year. Most of the encephalitis cases arrive during August–October, when the number of patients in the hospital ranges from 400 to 700. The first encephalitis epidemic broke out in the Gorkhapur region in 1978. During 1978–2011, more than 30,000 encephalitis deaths were recorded at the BRD medical college. This included the deaths of 1,500 patients, 90% of them children, in 2005. The 2005 outbreak was
Death toll from acute encephalitis in east Indian town rises to 129 children. [SEP] Baba Raghav Das Medical College // the worst since 1978. The tragedy became a political issue, and several ministers visited the place. The number of cases went down after vaccinations were administered to children in the area. According to official records, during 2012–2017, more than 3,000 children died at the BRD hospital. Most of the deaths were attributed to acute encephalitis syndrome (AES) caused by the Japanese encephalitis. According to the institution's former principal and head of pediatrics department KP Kushwaha, these officials numbers are actually understated. In 2017, he alleged that the doctors at the institution play down the number of deaths to avoid action
Death toll from acute encephalitis in east Indian town rises to 129 children. [SEP] Baba Raghav Das Medical College // against them, and to get promotions. Other medical practitioners have blamed the hospital's negligence as a major factor behind the high number of child deaths. Over these years, several politicians visited the hospital after each incident of mass child deaths. They made promises to upgrade the hospital facilities, but no such upgrades were done. In 2017, 175 children died of encephalitis (out of a total 1,256 deaths at the hospital). The deaths attracted media attention and generated political controversy in August 2017, when 296 children died (including 77 of encephalitis). However, the total number of child deaths (including encephalitis-related child
Death toll from acute encephalitis in east Indian town rises to 129 children. [SEP] 2017 Gorakhpur hospital deaths // to treat neo-natal and pediatric encephalitis. It has seen a number of child deaths since 1978, when the first encephalitis outbreak in the Gorakhpur region. During 1978-2017, around 25,000 children have died of encephalitis. As of 3 September 2017, 1,317 children had died in the hospital during 2017. The number of deaths has sharply declined compared to the previous years. As of 2 September 2017, the month of August saw the highest number of deaths (325): On 6 April, the hospital's oxygen supplier, Puspha Sales wrote a letter to the Chief Minister, Adityanath, and Health Minister reminding them that the
Death toll from acute encephalitis in east Indian town rises to 129 children. [SEP] Acute HME syndrome // state government to investigate into the death of approximately 100 children in Malkangiri district that occurred since September 2015. The deaths were suspected to have occurred due to Japanese encephalitis. In its interim report, the panel indicated that anthraquinone, a toxin found in the ‘bada chakunda’ (Cassia occidentalis) plant was identified in the urine sample of 5 deceased children thus indicating that some of the children may have died of Encephalopathy, which is caused due to consumption of the plant. At the end of four years, it was concluded that the disease was not encephalitis as so far believed but
Death toll from acute encephalitis in east Indian town rises to 129 children. [SEP] 2017 Gorakhpur hospital deaths // Party accused the state government of encouraging corrupt practices at the hospital. 2017 Gorakhpur hospital deaths A large number of child deaths occurred at the state-run BRD Medical College hospital in Gorakhpur city of Uttar Pradesh, India in 2017. As of 2 September 2017, 1,317 children had died at the hospital in 2017. The 2017 deaths attracted national attention in August, when 325 children died at the hospital after the hospital's piped oxygen supply ran out. The number of child deaths in previous years were 5,850 in 2014; 6,917 in 2015; and 6,121 in 2016. Acute encephalitis syndrome (AES) was
Death toll from acute encephalitis in east Indian town rises to 129 children. [SEP] Nipah virus infection // By mid-1999, more than 265 human cases of encephalitis, including 105 deaths, had been reported in Malaysia, and 11 cases of either encephalitis or respiratory illness with one fatality were reported in Singapore. In 2001, Nipah virus was reported from Meherpur District, Bangladesh and Siliguri, India. The outbreak again appeared in 2003, 2004 and 2005 in Naogaon District, Manikganj District, Rajbari District, Faridpur District and Tangail District. In Bangladesh, there were also outbreaks in subsequent years. In May 2018, an outbreak was reported in the Kozhikode district of Kerala, India. Seventeen deaths were recorded, including one healthcare worker. Those who
Death toll from acute encephalitis in east Indian town rises to 129 children. [SEP] Japanese encephalitis // the leading cause of viral encephalitis in Asia, with up to 70,000 cases reported annually. Case-fatality rates range from 0.3% to 60% and depend on the population and age. Rare outbreaks in U.S. territories in the Western Pacific have also occurred. Residents of rural areas in endemic locations are at highest risk; Japanese encephalitis does not usually occur in urban areas. Countries which have had major epidemics in the past, but which have controlled the disease primarily by vaccination, include China, South Korea, Japan, Taiwan and Thailand. Other countries that still have periodic epidemics include Vietnam, Cambodia, Myanmar, India, Nepal,
Death toll from acute encephalitis in east Indian town rises to 129 children. [SEP] 2017 Gorakhpur hospital deaths // 2017 Gorakhpur hospital deaths A large number of child deaths occurred at the state-run BRD Medical College hospital in Gorakhpur city of Uttar Pradesh, India in 2017. As of 2 September 2017, 1,317 children had died at the hospital in 2017. The 2017 deaths attracted national attention in August, when 325 children died at the hospital after the hospital's piped oxygen supply ran out. The number of child deaths in previous years were 5,850 in 2014; 6,917 in 2015; and 6,121 in 2016. Acute encephalitis syndrome (AES) was a major cause of the deaths: Till 29 August 2017, 175 children
Death toll from acute encephalitis in east Indian town rises to 129 children. [SEP] Baba Raghav Das Medical College // at the institution. In 2009, the state government granted the College several millions of rupees from a federal health programme. The College spent a part of this money to hire 135 researchers, doctors and paramedics focused on encephalitis treatment. However, by August 2009, most of the money had been spent, and only 36 of the hired staff were being paid regular salaries. In August 2017, it was reported that an average of 300 child patients were being admitted to the 50-bed pediatric Intensive Care Unit (ICU) every month. One infant warmer was being used for 3–4 babies simultaneously. The families
Drinking untreated spring water, marketed as "raw water," provides health benefits because they are "probiotic. [SEP] Raw water // through a series of chemical and physical treatment methods before reaching the filter". Around 2017 untreated spring water, described as "naturally probiotic" raw water, became a commercial product distributed through health food shops, but experts have raised public health concerns about the possible occurrence of harmful bacteria, viruses, and parasites such as "Giardia". One raw water business in the United States has even claimed that methods used by bottled and spring water producers could change the molecular structure of water. The fad was mocked on "The Daily Show" in April 2018 in a segment that included an interview with Marion
Drinking untreated spring water, marketed as "raw water," provides health benefits because they are "probiotic. [SEP] Mountain Valley Spring Water // P. Allen Smith serves Mountain Valley Spring and Sparkling Water at his garden home. Mountain Valley Spring and Sparkling Waters are the official bottled waters of the Southern Foodways Alliance and the Society of Hickory Golfers. Because of the environmental impact of bottled water and the lack of any proven benefits of it compared to municipal tap water, states are increasingly banning its purchase using state funds. While of course individuals are free to purchase it, states like NY will not allow state money to be used to purchase it for any State events of at state-funded institutions. California and
Drinking untreated spring water, marketed as "raw water," provides health benefits because they are "probiotic. [SEP] Mountain Valley Spring Water // the connection between the low-sodium content of the water and its alkaline buffering ability. The extensive testing of the spring water enabled the company to present a strong and successful defense to 1956 allegations by the Food and Drug Administration that its advertising claims were too broad and exaggerated. In 2003, it received a Gold Medal at the Berkeley Springs International Water Tasting Awards for Non-Carbonated Bottled Water. Water varieties include regular spring water and sparkling water, and both varieties are available in glass bottles or plastic bottles that use 25% recycled PET. In 2011, Mountain Valley Sparkling Water won
Drinking untreated spring water, marketed as "raw water," provides health benefits because they are "probiotic. [SEP] Spring of St. Anna, Rivne region, Ukraine // capable of processing light energy in the tens of thousands of times the speed of regenerating reactions. Normal tap water, processed through flint, becomes healthier and can be preserved for many years. Flint water is bactericidal. It destroys the influenza virus, quickly stops external bleeding, soothes a toothache, is effective for angina and running nose, paradontosis, and eliminates heartburn. It is also effective for chronic diseases of stomach and duodenum. Flint water can reduce the sugar level in blood, eliminate sand from the kidney and gall bladder, affect the normalization of liver and kidney functions, improve metabolism, and significantly improve
Drinking untreated spring water, marketed as "raw water," provides health benefits because they are "probiotic. [SEP] Drinking water // to safe drinking water is indicated by safe water sources. These improved drinking water sources include household connection, public standpipe, borehole condition, protected dug well, protected spring, and rain water collection. Sources that do not encourage improved drinking water to the same extent as previously mentioned include: unprotected wells, unprotected springs, rivers or ponds, vender-provided water, bottled water (consequential of limitations in quantity, not quality of water), and tanker truck water. Access to sanitary water comes hand in hand with access to improved sanitation facilities for excreta, such as connection to public sewer, connection to septic system, or a pit
Drinking untreated spring water, marketed as "raw water," provides health benefits because they are "probiotic. [SEP] Wilhoit Springs // waters of Europe, such as the Seltzer." In large enough quantities a water like this could provide real relief from heartburn, constipation, certain skin conditions and iron-deficiency anemia, so it's not surprising the waters developed a reputation for medical efficacy. Not all medicinal claims made about Wilhoit Springs water hold up to scrutiny, though. One particular pamphlet boasted that the water "RELIEVES THE APPETITE FOR DRINK": "It is the much appreciated experience of many drinking men that this water will satisfy the craving for strong drink in a most remarkable manner," the advertisement announced. "The victim of drink finds Wilhoit
Drinking untreated spring water, marketed as "raw water," provides health benefits because they are "probiotic. [SEP] Tibicos // many different names/distinction in the scientific literature. Different ingredients or hygienic conditions might also change the fungal and bacteriological composition, leading to the different names. People who do not wish to consume dairy products may find that water kefir provides probiotics without the need for dairy or tea cultured products, such as kombucha. The finished product, if bottled, will produce a carbonated beverage. It will continue to ferment when bottled thus producing more carbonation—so bottles need to be capped loosely and allowed to breathe, or they may become explosive. At least two references in the scientific literature relate to the
Drinking untreated spring water, marketed as "raw water," provides health benefits because they are "probiotic. [SEP] Mountain Valley Spring Water // company in 2016 In an effort to discover what ingredient or ingredients made this spring water different from its competitors and beneficial to those with chronic disorders, the company encouraged the clinical and biochemical study of the water and its possible therapeutic effects in the 1920s and 1930s. Clinical tests at hospitals in New York, St. Louis, and Philadelphia demonstrated improvements in the health of patients suffering from kidney and liver disorders and rheumatism as a result of drinking Mountain Valley Water. Studies after World War II in facilities in New York, Cincinnati, Chicago, St. Louis, and Houston further investigated
Drinking untreated spring water, marketed as "raw water," provides health benefits because they are "probiotic. [SEP] Raw water // Nestle. Raw water Raw water is water found in the environment that has not been treated and does not have any of its minerals, ions, particles, bacteria, or parasites removed. Raw water includes rainwater, ground water, water from infiltration wells, and water from bodies like lakes and rivers. Raw water is generally unsafe for human consumption due to the presence of contaminants. A major health problem in some developing countries is use of raw water for drinking and cooking. Without treatment, raw water can be used for farming, construction or cleaning purposes. Farmers use it for watering their crops or
Drinking untreated spring water, marketed as "raw water," provides health benefits because they are "probiotic. [SEP] Water purification // that may be present in water from an unknown source. Even natural spring water – considered safe for all practical purposes in the 19th century – must now be tested before determining what kind of treatment, if any, is needed. Chemical and microbiological analysis, while expensive, are the only way to obtain the information necessary for deciding on the appropriate method of purification. According to a 2007 World Health Organization (WHO) report, 1.1 billion people lack access to an improved drinking water supply; 88% of the 4 billion annual cases of diarrheal disease are attributed to unsafe water and inadequate
Special Report: Italy and South Korea virus outbreaks reveal disparity in deaths and tactics. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // United Kingdom, France, Germany, and the United Arab Emirates. According to a European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) publication, on April 2014, Tunisia had a total of 3 cases with 1 fatality. In May 2015, the first case in South Korea was confirmed in a man who had visited several Middle Eastern countries. As of 16 June 2015, a total of 150 cases has been infected, including 18 deaths, according to the World Health Organization (WHO). As of 29 June 2015, 32 people in South Korea have died from this outbreak, with 182 confirmed cases of infection. There
Special Report: Italy and South Korea virus outbreaks reveal disparity in deaths and tactics. [SEP] South Korea foot-and-mouth outbreak // had dead livestocks buried around 4 drinking water facilities in Gyeonggi-do. A ProMED-mail post described the epizootic and subsequent cancellations of festivities as being reminiscent of Britain's February 19, 2001 foot-and-mouth disease outbreak, and even more so of an outbreak in Japan beginning late March 2010, which was caused by the same strain of the virus. In that epizootic cattle herds were found to be 3.9-4.5 times more susceptible to the virus than pig herds, but pig herds had 5.0-13.6 times greater relative infectiousness; thus cattle on infected premises suffered a cumulative incidence of 8.5%, whereas 36.4% of pigs were
Special Report: Italy and South Korea virus outbreaks reveal disparity in deaths and tactics. [SEP] Virus (novel) // in the Alps. Although some local communities have been reporting small animals suddenly dropping dead in their area, an Italian matinee idol's death in an auto crash in early March sparks media attention. His girlfriend dies shortly after a press conference eight days later, but not before she reveals that the actor died of a heart attack just before the accident despite being in good health. Several European countries are also reporting sudden deaths of important livestock. Over the second quarter, outbreaks of influenza and polio take place around the world, and news of random heart attacks even hog the
Special Report: Italy and South Korea virus outbreaks reveal disparity in deaths and tactics. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic in Asia // in South Korea, on 30 April. On 2 May, the first suspected woman turned out to be infected with the influenza A subtype H1N1. South Korea became the third infected nation in Asia, after Israel and Hong Kong. There have been approx. 2100 cases in S.Korea as of 16 August 2009. On 15 August, the first Korean death by the new influenza was confirmed publicly and a second death was announced on 16 August. Around 15000 cases and 14 deaths have been reported as of 12 October 2009. On 20 May 2009, the first case of the influenza has been
Special Report: Italy and South Korea virus outbreaks reveal disparity in deaths and tactics. [SEP] Influenza A virus subtype H5N8 // official delegations from Japan, South Korea and China gathered in Beijing for a symposium on preventing and controlling bird flu and other diseases in East Asia, according to the website of China's ministry of agriculture. By the end of December the outbreak had spread to South Korea, Japan, Germany, and the United Kingdom. Thousands of birds and animals were being culled in Germany to stop the spread. In the United Kingdom the flu was found in a wild duck at a turkey farm in Lincolnshire. In South Korea, a total of record 18.4 million birds had been killed by December
Special Report: Italy and South Korea virus outbreaks reveal disparity in deaths and tactics. [SEP] Health in South Korea // indexes: incidence rate, prevalence rate and death rate are the worst among the OECD countries since 1996 when South Korea became a member of OECD. According to the Ministry of Health and Welfare, chronic illness account for the majority of diseases in South Korea, a condition exacerbated by the health care system’s focus on treatment rather than prevention. The incidence of chronic disease in South Korea hovers around 24 percent. The human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) rate of prevalence at the end of 2003 was less than 0.1 percent. In 2001 central government expenditures on health care accounted for about 6
Special Report: Italy and South Korea virus outbreaks reveal disparity in deaths and tactics. [SEP] 2015 Middle East respiratory syndrome outbreak in South Korea // points to stem the economic fallout from the outbreak. South Korea's department store sales decreased by 16.5% compared to the same period last year, and retail shops also decreased 3.4%, according to the Minister of Strategy and Finance, as of June 17, 2015. As of 17 June 2015, 100,000 tourist visits to the nation had been cancelled. 2015 Middle East respiratory syndrome outbreak in South Korea An outbreak of Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus occurred in South Korea from May 2015 to July 2015. The virus, which causes Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS), was a newly emerged betacoronavirus that was
Special Report: Italy and South Korea virus outbreaks reveal disparity in deaths and tactics. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic in Europe // well. As of 26 July the amount of swine flu cases is 618 with community outbreaks contributing to the number. On 4 September the first death was confirmed in Italy. On 19 September the second death was confirmed in Italy. On 24 July, the authorities in Kosovo announced that the samples of three suspected cases had been sent to the laboratory for analysis. According to the authorities, the three cases had had contact with other people who were infected by the A/H1N1 virus. Two of them had previously visited Switzerland and Sweden, and one of them was in the United
Special Report: Italy and South Korea virus outbreaks reveal disparity in deaths and tactics. [SEP] Foot-and-mouth disease // and in January 2011, South Korean officials started a mass cull of approximately 12%, or around three million in total, of the entire domestic pig population, and 107,000 of three million cattle of the country to halt the outbreak. According to the report based on complete 1D gene sequences, Korean serotype A virus was linked with those from Laos. Korean serotype O viruses were divided into three clades and were closely related to isolates from Japan, Thailand, the UK, France, Ireland, South Africa, and Singapore, as well as Laos. On 10 February 2011, North Korea reported an outbreak affecting pigs
Special Report: Italy and South Korea virus outbreaks reveal disparity in deaths and tactics. [SEP] 2015 Middle East respiratory syndrome outbreak in South Korea // isolated, 64 patients were infected and 5 infected patients died, the central government finally disclosed the names of MERS exposed medical institutions on 7 June 2015. On 7 June 2015, the South Korean government released the names of 24 MERS-affected hospitals to the public. These hospitals include the Pyeongtaek St. Mary's (SeongMo) Hospital (평택성모병원) and the Seoul Samsung Hospital (삼성서울병원), an affiliate of Samsung Medical Center. [The facts of this incident have not been clearly written and require verification.] On 26 May 2015, a 44-year-old South Korean man, his father and elder sister [were all] confirmed to be infected by
JUULing, or use of a JUUL e-cigarette, has caused cancer in four students. [SEP] Electronic cigarette // use JUUL. Vaping frequently takes place in bathroom stalls at school, and some students are able to vape in class undetected by teachers. There has been an increasing trend in vaping among adolescents. In 2011 the National Youth Tobacco Survey (NYTS) began surveying vaping use. Lifetime use among middle school aged students in 2011 was 1.4% and increased 3% by 2013. Ongoing use (use within 30 days) among middle school students in 2011 was 0.6% and increased to 3.9% by 2014. Among high school students, Lifetime use in 2011 was 4.7% and increased to 11.9% by 2013, and ongoing use
JUULing, or use of a JUUL e-cigarette, has caused cancer in four students. [SEP] Electronic cigarette // and Juuling is a large part of internet culture for young people and the subject of many memes on social media. In 2017, about 13 percent of 8th graders, 24 percent of 10th graders, and nearly 28 percent of 12th graders at American schools reported vaping in the past year, according to research sponsored by the National Institutes of Health. Survey data suggests that teens use e-cigarettes substantially more than cigarettes and that teenagers tend to perceive as e-cigarettes as safer than cigarettes or harmless. Boys are more likely to use e-cigarettes than girls and are twice as likely to
JUULing, or use of a JUUL e-cigarette, has caused cancer in four students. [SEP] JUUL // 15-year old son of the plaintiff made him "heavily addicted to nicotine" causing him to be "anxious, highly irritable and prone to angry outbursts." In late 2018, news reports noted increasing rates of JUUL addiction in teenagers, which negatively impacts brain development and relationships. JUUL's high nicotine content has attracted concern because of nicotine's addictive properties and also because nicotine can cause impaired lung and brain development, especially of the prefrontal cortex, which affects judgement and impulse control. Particular concern has been expressed about the lack of vaping cessation treatments for adolescents, and the FDA has scheduled a public hearing
JUULing, or use of a JUUL e-cigarette, has caused cancer in four students. [SEP] Causes of cancer // to what some organizations have described as the "tobacco epidemic". Electronic cigarettes or e-cigarettes are handheld electronic devices that simulate the feeling of tobacco smoking. Daily long-term use of high voltage (5.0 V) electronic cigarettes may generate formaldehyde-forming chemicals at a greater level than smoking, which was determined to be a lifetime cancer risk of approximately 5 to 15 times greater than smoking. However, the overall safety and long-term health effects of electronic cigarettes is still uncertain. Some substances cause cancer primarily through their physical, rather than chemical, effects on cells. A prominent example of this is prolonged exposure to
JUULing, or use of a JUUL e-cigarette, has caused cancer in four students. [SEP] JUUL // that 7% of teenagers ages 15–17 and 12% of young adults ages 18–24 use JUUL. Teenagers use the verb "Juuling" to describe their use of JUUL, which frequently takes place in bathroom stalls at school. Former PAX Labs CEO Goldman said to "Fortune" in 2016 that "JUUL should not be used by those under the legal age, nor should any nicotine products, as stated by the U.S. Surgeon General." In 2018 Matt Myers, president of Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids, said the design "misleads about risk" of addiction. The 2017 Truth Initiative survey found 63% of teens and young adults do
JUULing, or use of a JUUL e-cigarette, has caused cancer in four students. [SEP] Electronic cigarette // in Europe to minimize the EU Tobacco Product Directive in October 2013. True grassroots lobbying also influenced the TPD decision. Rebecca Taylor, a member of the European Parliament, stated, "to say it's an orchestrated campaign is absolute rubbish." Contempt for "big tobacco" is part of vaping culture. In the United States, vaping has become a major part of youth culture since 2015, especially among teenagers in high school, even though use of e-cigarettes by a minor is illegal. The most popular vaporizer used by American youth is the JUUL. Teenagers use the verb "Juuling" to describe their use of JUUL,
JUULing, or use of a JUUL e-cigarette, has caused cancer in four students. [SEP] JUUL // addiction. Gottlieb further stated, "In some cases, our kids are trying these products and liking them without even knowing they contain nicotine. And that’s a problem, because as we know the nicotine in these products can rewire an adolescent’s brain, leading to years of addiction." Concerns about the effect of nicotine delivered by JUUL on the developing adolescent brain have led to a lawsuit against the company. The suit, filed in US District Court in New York in June 2018, alleges that JUUL contains more nicotine than necessary to satisfy an adult smoker, and that use of JUUL by the
JUULing, or use of a JUUL e-cigarette, has caused cancer in four students. [SEP] Youth smoking // as having less than one puff of a cigarette, e-cigarette use was associated with lower odds of remaining abstinent from conventional cigarettes. A study of nearly 2,000 high school students found that students who used both e-cigarettes and regular cigarettes had a significantly greater amount of risk factors associated with smoking. In comparison to students who did not smoke, students who used e-cigarettes only or used both e-cigarettes and regular cigarettes more often viewed e-cigarettes as healthier than regular cigarettes. Additionally, there is little disapproval for the use of e-cigarettes among adolescents. The role of e-cigarettes as being primarily a
JUULing, or use of a JUUL e-cigarette, has caused cancer in four students. [SEP] Marketing of electronic cigarettes // flavors being added each month; fruit, candy, and dessert flavours are common. Marketing flavoured e-cigarette products has been shown to attract children. Ads for flavoured e-cigarettes have been shown to cause children to be more interested in buying and trying e-cigarettes, as compared to ads for unflavoured e-cigarettes. Children's belief that fruit-flavoured e-cigarettes are less harmful also increases their appeal, and restrictions on advertising for flavoured e-cigarettes have also been urged on these grounds. Products such as JUUL are marketed in a design which can easily be mistaken for a flash drive by parents and teachers. JUUL is under federal
JUULing, or use of a JUUL e-cigarette, has caused cancer in four students. [SEP] JUUL // cigarettes. According to the first suit, filed in US District Court in April, "the intense dosage of nicotine salts delivered by the Juul products resulted in an increased nicotine addiction, and an increased consumption of nicotine by [plaintiff] Colgate." JUUL JUUL Labs ( , like "jewel") is an electronic cigarette company which spun off from PAX Labs in 2017. It makes the JUUL e-cigarette, which was introduced by PAX Labs in 2015. JUUL is a type of e-cigarette that uses nicotine salts that exist in leaf-based tobacco for its key ingredient. The JUUL became the most popular e-cigarette in the
Heart Association's Stroke Guidelines Support Clot-Removing Device If clot-busting drugs don't work, device can be used to pull the blockage out through the artery [SEP] Stroke // possibly aspirin, statins, surgery to open up the arteries to the brain in those with problematic narrowing, and warfarin in those with atrial fibrillation. A stroke or TIA often requires emergency care. An ischemic stroke, if detected within three to four and half hours, may be treatable with a medication that can break down the clot. Aspirin should be used. Some hemorrhagic strokes benefit from surgery. Treatment to try to recover lost function is called stroke rehabilitation and ideally takes place in a stroke unit; however, these are not available in much of the world. In 2013 approximately 6.9 million
Heart Association's Stroke Guidelines Support Clot-Removing Device If clot-busting drugs don't work, device can be used to pull the blockage out through the artery [SEP] Stroke // angioplasty can be used to remove atherosclerotic narrowing of the carotid artery. There is evidence supporting this procedure in selected cases. Endarterectomy for a significant stenosis has been shown to be useful in preventing further strokes in those who have already had one. Carotid artery stenting has not been shown to be equally useful. People are selected for surgery based on age, gender, degree of stenosis, time since symptoms and the person's preferences. Surgery is most efficient when not delayed too long —the risk of recurrent stroke in a patient who has a 50% or greater stenosis is up to
Heart Association's Stroke Guidelines Support Clot-Removing Device If clot-busting drugs don't work, device can be used to pull the blockage out through the artery [SEP] Atherosclerosis // like aspirin help to prevent clots, and a variety of antihypertensive medications are routinely used to control blood pressure. If the combined efforts of risk factor modification and medication therapy are not sufficient to control symptoms, or fight imminent threats of ischemic events, a physician may resort to interventional or surgical procedures to correct the obstruction. Treatment of established disease may include medications to lower cholesterol such as statins, blood pressure medication, or medications that decrease clotting, such as aspirin. A number of procedures may also be carried out such as percutaneous coronary intervention, coronary artery bypass graft, or carotid
Heart Association's Stroke Guidelines Support Clot-Removing Device If clot-busting drugs don't work, device can be used to pull the blockage out through the artery [SEP] Cerebral infarction // plasminogen activator (tPA), is used to dissolve the clot and unblock the artery. Another intervention for acute cerebral ischaemia is removal of the offending thrombus directly. This is accomplished by inserting a catheter into the femoral artery, directing it into the cerebral circulation, and deploying a corkscrew-like device to ensnare the clot, which is then withdrawn from the body. Mechanical embolectomy devices have been demonstrated effective at restoring blood flow in patients who were unable to receive thrombolytic drugs or for whom the drugs were ineffective, though no differences have been found between newer and older versions of the devices.
Heart Association's Stroke Guidelines Support Clot-Removing Device If clot-busting drugs don't work, device can be used to pull the blockage out through the artery [SEP] Human brain // look for clots within the heart, diseases of the heart valves or the presence of a patent foramen ovale. Blood tests are routinely done as part of the workup including diabetes tests and a lipid profile. Some treatments for stroke are time-critical. These include clot dissolution or surgical removal of a clot for ischaemic strokes, and decompression for haemorrhagic strokes. As stroke is time critical, hospitals and even pre-hospital care of stroke involves expedited investigations – usually a CT scan to investigate for a haemorrhagic stroke and a CT or MR angiogram to evaluate arteries that supply the brain. MRI
Heart Association's Stroke Guidelines Support Clot-Removing Device If clot-busting drugs don't work, device can be used to pull the blockage out through the artery [SEP] Left atrial appendage occlusion // or adherence issues. This applies particularly to the elderly, although studies have indicated that they can also benefit from anticoagulants. Left atrial appendage closure is an implant-based alternative to blood thinners. Like blood thinning medications, an LAAC implant does not cure AF. A stroke can be due to factors not related to a clot traveling to the brain from the left atrium. Other causes of stroke can include high blood pressure and narrowing of the blood vessels to the brain. An LAAC implant will not prevent these other causes of stroke. On March 13, 2015, the U.S. Food and Drug
Heart Association's Stroke Guidelines Support Clot-Removing Device If clot-busting drugs don't work, device can be used to pull the blockage out through the artery [SEP] Carotid artery stenosis // goal of treatment is to reduce the risk of stroke (cerebrovascular accident). Intervention (carotid endarterectomy or carotid stenting) can cause stroke; however, where the risk of stroke from medical management alone is high, intervention may be beneficial. Clinical guidelines (such as those of National Institute for Clinical Excellence (NICE)) recommend that all patients with carotid stenosis be given medication, usually blood pressure lowering medications, anti-clotting medications, anti-platelet medications (such as aspirin or clopidogrel), and especially statins (which were originally prescribed for their cholesterol-lowering effects but were also found to reduce inflammation and stabilize plaque). In selected trial participants with asymptomatic
Heart Association's Stroke Guidelines Support Clot-Removing Device If clot-busting drugs don't work, device can be used to pull the blockage out through the artery [SEP] Intermittent claudication // affected muscles and allow for increased activity levels. Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors, adrenergic agents such as alpha-1 blockers and beta-blockers and alpha-2 agonists, antiplatelet agents (aspirin and clopidogrel), naftidrofuryl, pentoxifylline, and cilostazol (selective PDE3 inhibitor) are used for the treatment of intermittent claudication. However, medications will not remove the blockages from the body. Instead, they simply improve blood flow to the affected area. Catheter-based intervention is also an option. Atherectomy, stenting, and angioplasty to remove or push aside the arterial blockages are the most common procedures for catheter-based intervention. These procedures can be performed by interventional radiologists, interventional cardiologists, vascular
Heart Association's Stroke Guidelines Support Clot-Removing Device If clot-busting drugs don't work, device can be used to pull the blockage out through the artery [SEP] Left atrial appendage occlusion // newer approved blood thinners) are very effective in lowering the risk of stroke in AF patients. Most patients can safely take these medications for years (and even decades) without serious side effects. However, some patients find that blood thinning medications can be difficult to tolerate or are risky. Because they prevent blood clots by thinning the blood, blood thinners can increase the risk of bleeding problems. In select patients, physicians determine that an alternative to blood thinners is needed to reduce AF stroke risk. Approximately 45% of patients who are eligible for warfarin are not being treated, due to tolerance
Heart Association's Stroke Guidelines Support Clot-Removing Device If clot-busting drugs don't work, device can be used to pull the blockage out through the artery [SEP] Myocardial infarction // blood vessels of the heart. The probes are then used to identify and clear blockages using small balloons, which are dragged through the blocked segment, dragging away the clot, or the insertion of stents. Coronary artery bypass grafting is only considered when the affected area of heart muscle large, and PCI is unsuitable, for example with difficult cardiac anatomy. After PCI, people are generally placed on aspirin indefinitely and on dual antiplatelet therapy (generally aspirin and clopidogrel) for at least a year. If PCI cannot be performed within 90 to 120 minutes in STEMI then fibrinolysis, preferably within 30 minutes
Al Jazeera reporter Kimberly Halkett called White House Press Secretary Kayleigh McEnany a "lying bitch" during a press briefing. [SEP] White House travel office controversy // had requested all relevant materials. House committee chair Clinger charged a cover-up was taking place and vowed to pursue new material. These developments, following Hillary Clinton's prior disputed statements about her cattle futures dealings and Whitewater, led to a famous exchange in which high-profile "New York Times" columnist William Safire, who had endorsed Bill Clinton in the previous election, wrote that many Americans were coming to the "sad realization that our First Lady—a woman of undoubted talents who was a role model for many in her generation—is a congenital liar," followed by White House Press Secretary Mike McCurry saying that
Al Jazeera reporter Kimberly Halkett called White House Press Secretary Kayleigh McEnany a "lying bitch" during a press briefing. [SEP] Andrea Mitchell // grabbed her and forcibly shoved her out of the room. After the incident Mitchell said, "It is our job to ask. They can always say 'no comment'… but to drag a reporter out just for asking is inexcusable behavior." Prior to the incident, Sudanese officials expressed reservations about allowing American newspaper or television reporters to join the Sudanese press pool. Sean McCormack, the U.S. State Department's assistant secretary for public affairs, said to his Sudanese counterpart, "I'll convey your desires about not permitting reporters to ask questions, but that's all I'll do. We have a free press." McCormack's Sudanese counterpart
Al Jazeera reporter Kimberly Halkett called White House Press Secretary Kayleigh McEnany a "lying bitch" during a press briefing. [SEP] Red Hen restaurant controversy // chef telephoned restaurant co-owner Stephanie Wilkinson to report that White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders had entered the restaurant to dine with a group of about eight people. Wilkinson told "The Washington Post" that, after conferring with her employees, she told Sanders that the restaurant upholds standards "such as honesty, and compassion, and cooperation", and asked Sanders to leave, which Sanders did. Wilkinson related that the other people at Sanders' table had been served appetizers and were invited to stay, but they also left, Wilkinson saying their appetizers were on the house. In the morning press briefing of Monday
Al Jazeera reporter Kimberly Halkett called White House Press Secretary Kayleigh McEnany a "lying bitch" during a press briefing. [SEP] The Washington Times // to 1998, says her experience there allowed her to jump directly to her current job at "Business Week". "I got a lot of opportunities very quickly. They appreciated and rewarded talent and, frankly, there was a lot of turnover." In his 2003 book "Lies (And the Lying Liars Who Tell Them): A Fair and Balanced Look at the Right", comedian, author, and later Democratic senator Al Franken devoted a chapter to criticizing the "Times" after executive editor Wesley Pruden rewrote a reporter's story, without the reporter's knowledge, about Franken's performance at a White House party. According to Franken, the rewrite
Al Jazeera reporter Kimberly Halkett called White House Press Secretary Kayleigh McEnany a "lying bitch" during a press briefing. [SEP] Annabeth Schott // and the election of Matt Santos as President, Annabeth is selected by First Lady Helen Santos as her Press Secretary, working alongside Donna Moss, who is named Helen Santos' Chief of Staff. Annabeth Schott Annabeth Schott, played by Kristin Chenoweth, is a fictional character on the political drama "The West Wing". She joins the Bartlet administration in Season 6 as Deputy Press Secretary for media relations following the promotion of C. J. Cregg to White House Chief of Staff, although she applied for a different position after working for and reportedly "discovering" political talk show host Taylor Reid. She holds
Al Jazeera reporter Kimberly Halkett called White House Press Secretary Kayleigh McEnany a "lying bitch" during a press briefing. [SEP] Kayleigh McEnany // presidential election, formally announcing her endorsement of his then-candidacy on February 1, 2016. In February 2017, McEnany had a heated exchange with "New York Times" columnist Charles Blow on CNN's show "CNN Tonight with Don Lemon". In March 2017, McEnany apologized after claiming Barack Obama was president when Daniel Pearl, an American journalist, was beheaded by terrorists in Pakistan in 2002. McEnany had meant to refer to James Foley, a journalist who was beheaded by ISIS in 2014. On August 5, 2017, McEnany tweeted she had left CNN after asking to leave the network for another opportunity. The next day,
Al Jazeera reporter Kimberly Halkett called White House Press Secretary Kayleigh McEnany a "lying bitch" during a press briefing. [SEP] Kayleigh McEnany // of the University of Oxford, in England. McEnany studied at the University of Miami School of Law and then transferred to Harvard Law School, where she received a JD in May 2017. After graduating from Georgetown University, McEnany was a producer on former Governor of Arkansas Mike Huckabee's eponymous TV show. She interned for several politicians, including Tom Gallagher, Adam Putnam, and George W. Bush; for Bush's 2004 campaign; and in the White House Office of Communications in the Media Affairs department. On CNN, she was frequently called on to defend President Donald Trump, whom she supported during the 2016
Al Jazeera reporter Kimberly Halkett called White House Press Secretary Kayleigh McEnany a "lying bitch" during a press briefing. [SEP] Annabeth Schott // in for C.J., is often occupied by his duties as White House Communications Director. Although able to talk to reporters effectively outside of the realm of press briefings, Annabeth finds herself nervous in the formal briefing setting. Instead, she does her best to coach Toby, who is prickly and mumbly with the press, to use his natural "watchable quality" to turn him into an able Acting Press Secretary. Toward the end of Season 6, Annabeth assists Leo McGarry in running the 2006 Democratic National Convention. Leo is announced as the vice-presidential running mate of Matt Santos at convention and in
Al Jazeera reporter Kimberly Halkett called White House Press Secretary Kayleigh McEnany a "lying bitch" during a press briefing. [SEP] Sharyl Attkisson // she stated was an "amicable" parting. "Politico" reported that according to sources within CBS there had been tensions leading to "months of hard-fought negotiations" – that Attkisson had been frustrated over what she perceived to be the network's liberal bias and lack of dedication to investigative reporting, as well as issues she had with the network’s corporate partners, while some colleagues within the network saw her reporting as agenda-driven and doubted her impartiality. Later that year, her book "Stonewalled: One Reporter's Fight for Truth Against the Forces of Obstruction, Intimidation, and Harassment in Obama's Washington" (Harpers) was published. In this
Al Jazeera reporter Kimberly Halkett called White House Press Secretary Kayleigh McEnany a "lying bitch" during a press briefing. [SEP] Red Hen restaurant controversy // she is "the first press secretary in the history of the United States that’s required Secret Service protection". At 7:41am on Monday, June 25, President Donald Trump tweeted that the restaurant should focus more on cleaning its "filthy canopies, doors and windows (badly needs a paint job) rather than refusing to serve a fine person like Sarah Huckabee Sanders", adding that "I always had a rule, if a restaurant is dirty on the outside, it is dirty on the inside!" (Virginia health department records show the restaurant "easily passed its most recent inspections".) After comments made by Congresswoman Maxine Waters
New York state has legalized heroin. [SEP] David Carlucci // which provides discount drugs for senior citizens. The expansion allows for an increase in number of senior citizens living in New York who will qualify for the program. The expansions passed in early 2014. In June 2014, Carlucci’s bill to create a relapse prevention program to combat heroin addiction in New York State became a law. The program provides educational legal, financial, social, family, and childcare services, in addition to peer-to-peer support groups, employment support, and transportation assistance, for recovering addicts. In the summer of 2011, Carlucci was the subject of a segment on "The Daily Show" entitled "Corn-Hold." This
New York state has legalized heroin. [SEP] Andrew Cuomo // available to 20 designated hospitals for the treatment of cancer and glaucoma. Later in July, New York became the 23rd state to allow the medical use of marijuana, as the Governor signed the Compassionate Care Act, not without drawing the criticism of legalization activists, though. In August 2017, the Cuomo administration awarded more than $7 million - financed with money from large bank settlements - in grants to New York colleges to offer courses to New York prisoners. In January 2018, Cuomo proposed reforms that would "reduce delays during trials, ban asset seizures in cases where there has been no
New York state has legalized heroin. [SEP] Nelson Rockefeller // lead more addicts to seek rehabilitation as hoped, and ultimately did not solve the problem of drug trafficking. These were among the toughest drug laws in the United States when they were enacted and are still on the books, albeit in moderated form. To carry out the rehabilitation program Rockefeller created the State Narcotics Addiction Control Commission (later the State Drug Abuse Control Commission.) New York also provided the financial support for research in methadone maintenance and the administration of the largest methadone maintenance program in the US. On September 9, 1971, prisoners at the state penitentiary at Attica, NY,
New York state has legalized heroin. [SEP] Anthony Papa // years to life imprisonment for a first time drug offense. New York's strict drug laws, enacted during the term of former governor Nelson Rockefeller, and now known as the Rockefeller drug laws are among the toughest in the United States. The possession of or more of such drugs as heroin and cocaine — or the sale of or more of the same substances — carried the same penalties as those imposed for second-degree murder. (The laws were revised in 2004/2005.) The book "15 to Life" is currently being transformed into a major film as reported by "Variety". This film option
New York state has legalized heroin. [SEP] Marijuana Policy Project // making New York the 23rd medical marijuana state. The law's passage is the product of many years of work by legislative champions, patients, their loved ones, and advocacy organizations, including MPP, Compassionate Care NY, and the Drug Policy Alliance. The new law will protect certain seriously ill patients who use marijuana pursuant to their doctors’ advice from civil and criminal penalties. A number of modifications were made at the insistence of Gov. Cuomo. As a result, patients will not be allowed to smoke medical cannabis, the law will sunset after seven years, and there will be no more than five
New York state has legalized heroin. [SEP] Cannabis in New York // as Christmas trees". Gleason oversaw incineration of the plants in Woodside, Queens. In 1939, New York Mayor Fiorello LaGuardia assigned a committee to investigate the issue of cannabis in his city. The committee released its report in 1944, concluding that the "gateway theory" was largely false, and that cannabis was not widely associated with addiction, school children, or juvenile delinquency. The report infuriated Harry Anslinger, commissioner of the Federal Bureau of Narcotics, who branded it unscientific. In 1973, New York governor Nelson Rockefeller signed legislation increasing the penalty for selling or more of heroin, morphine, "raw or prepared opium," cocaine,
New York state has legalized heroin. [SEP] Rockefeller Drug Laws // the same drugs, but this provision was subsequently omitted from the bill and was not part of the legislation Rockefeller ultimately signed. The section of the laws applying to marijuana was repealed in 1977, under the Democratic Governor Hugh Carey. The adoption of the Rockefeller drug laws gave New York State the distinction of having the toughest laws of its kind in the entire United States — an approach soon imitated by the state of Michigan, which, in 1978, enacted a "650-Lifer Law," which called for life imprisonment, without the possibility of parole for the sale, manufacture, or possession of
New York state has legalized heroin. [SEP] Timothy M. Kennedy (politician) // which legalized same-sex marriage in New York. The bill was signed into law by Governor Cuomo. In 2012, Kennedy introduced a package of four bills to combat the opioid epidemic in New York. One of the bills would create a prescription-monitoring system for physicians and pharmacists to track the prescription of narcotic painkillers. This proposal was made by New York State Attorney General Eric Schneiderman. In 2013, Kennedy co-sponsored legislation to increase the state minimum wage to $9 an hour, and automatically adjust the minimum wage to account for cost-of-living increases. In 2014, Kennedy introduced legislation that would limit the
New York state has legalized heroin. [SEP] Rockefeller Drug Laws // Under the new law, judges now had the authority to sentence defendants convicted of drug offences on guilty plea to shorter sentences, probation or drug treatment - the last known as "Judicial Diversion". Prior to 2009, drug treatment was available at the discretion of prosecutors. The sentencing was made retroactive, which allowed over 1000 incarcerated defendants to apply for resentencing and possible release. New York City has been called the cannabis-arrest capital of the world, with over 40,000 arrests in 2008. Despite New York's decriminalization of simple possession, New York City police arrest suspects for possession in public view, which
New York state has legalized heroin. [SEP] Cannabis in New York // variety of issues, including the legal, economic, and social ramifications recreational marijuana could have on New York. Cuomo's evolving opinion is likely due to Americans growing acceptance of marijuana, along with the negative impact the 2017 tax law is anticipated to have on New York. The Department of Health completed its study and has recommended the legalization of marijuana in New York, citing economic, public health, and public safety benefits. Cannabis in New York Cannabis in New York is illegal for recreational use, but is permitted for medical use, and possession of small amounts is decriminalized. Offenses related to the
Researchers Develop Simple Paper Test That Quickly Diagnoses Illnesses by Changing Colour [SEP] Paper-based microfluidics // in-lab, and the amount of color change is observed. More recently, a paper-based microfluidic device using colorimetric detection was developed to quantify glucose in blood plasma. Blood plasma is separated from whole blood samples on a wax-printed device, where red blood cells are agglutinated by antibodies and the blood plasma is able to flow to a second compartment for the color-change reaction. Electrochemical detection has also been used in these devices. It provides greater sensitivity in quantification, whereas colorimetric detection is primarily used for qualitative assessments. Screen-printed electrodes and electrodes directly printed on filter paper have been used. One example
Researchers Develop Simple Paper Test That Quickly Diagnoses Illnesses by Changing Colour [SEP] Color blindness // these problems early on in life, alternative color vision tests were developed using only symbols (square, circle, car). Besides the Ishihara color test, the US Navy and US Army also allow testing with the Farnsworth Lantern Test. This test allows 30% of color deficient individuals, whose deficiency is not too severe, to pass. Another test used by clinicians to measure chromatic discrimination is the Farnsworth-Munsell 100 hue test. The patient is asked to arrange a set of colored caps or chips to form a gradual transition of color between two anchor caps. The HRR color test (developed by Hardy, Rand,
Researchers Develop Simple Paper Test That Quickly Diagnoses Illnesses by Changing Colour [SEP] Paper-based microfluidics // an important role in diabetes and cancer, and it can be detected through a catalytic cycle involving glucose oxidase, hydrogen peroxide, and horseradish peroxidase that initiates a reaction between glucose and a color indicator, frequently potassium iodide, on a paper-based microfluidic device. This is an example of colorimetric detection. The first paper-based microfluidic device, developed by George Whitesides’ group at Harvard, was able to simultaneously detect protein as well as glucose via color-change reactions (potassium iodide reaction for glucose and tetrabromophenol blue reaction for the protein BSA). The bottom of the paper device is inserted into a sample solution prepared
Researchers Develop Simple Paper Test That Quickly Diagnoses Illnesses by Changing Colour [SEP] Functional periodicity // a breath or got startled by a noise. Not only did Leta Hollingworth study motor ability, she also sought to study mental ability as well. This was done by using two specific tests, color naming and saying opposites. Color naming was observed by having a card face down laid in front of the participant. Each participant was to name the color on the card as quickly as possible. The opposites test used a list of 50 words to test for mental ability as well. The words were presented to the individual in two columns and the words were typed. The
Researchers Develop Simple Paper Test That Quickly Diagnoses Illnesses by Changing Colour [SEP] Nancy Sottos // by Sottos and Wenle Li has developed polymeric structural materials that can indicate the presence of damage by changing color. Such self-reporting materials can act as a color changing warning system. The researchers created a polymer that contained microcapsules of epoxy resin and PH-sensitive dye. Damage to the polymer causes the capsules to break open and the epoxy and dye to mix. The resulting reaction causes the color of the material to change from yellow to red. The deeper the damage, the more intense the color change. This autonomous visual indicator can enable engineers to detect mechanical damage and intervene
Researchers Develop Simple Paper Test That Quickly Diagnoses Illnesses by Changing Colour [SEP] Blacklight // 365 nanometers) onto the skin of the patient; a technician then observes any subsequent fluorescence. For example, porphyrins—associated with some skin diseases—will fluoresce pink. Though the technique for producing a source of ultraviolet light was devised by Robert Williams Wood in 1903 using "Wood's glass", it was in 1925 that the technique was used in dermatology by Margarot and Deveze for the detection of fungal infection of hair. It has many uses, both in distinguishing fluorescent conditions from other conditions and in locating the precise boundaries of the condition. It is also helpful in diagnosing: A Wood's lamp may be
Researchers Develop Simple Paper Test That Quickly Diagnoses Illnesses by Changing Colour [SEP] Esagil-kin-apli // a new edition but was tangled like threads and had no master edition.” The primary purpose of the diagnosis was to identify the divine sender of the disease, as this was perceived to be a message from a deity. He applies a logical set of axioms and assumptions, including the need to inspect the symptoms of a patient in order to come up with a diagnosis, and arranges the more than 3,000 entries systematically from head to foot, left (inauspicious) to right (auspicious), and in the color sequence red/brown, yellow/green, black or white, and two shades of uncertain hue on
Researchers Develop Simple Paper Test That Quickly Diagnoses Illnesses by Changing Colour [SEP] Lüscher color test // color. Therefore, subjects who select identical color combinations have similar personalities. In order to measure this, he conducted a test in which subjects were shown 8 different colored cards and asked to place them in order of preference. Colors are divided between "basic" (blue, yellow, red, green) and "auxiliary" (violet, brown, grey, and black). After subjects placed the cards in order from most liked to least liked, they were asked to evaluate the extent to which their personalities matched the descriptive statements formed by Lüscher of each color. The results of the Lüscher-Color-Diagnostic contain indications pertaining to personal assessment and
Researchers Develop Simple Paper Test That Quickly Diagnoses Illnesses by Changing Colour [SEP] Chromatophore // rapidly identifying potential bioactive compounds using melanophores from the African clawed frog. Other scientists have developed techniques for using melanophores as biosensors, and for rapid disease detection (based on the discovery that pertussis toxin blocks pigment aggregation in fish melanophores). Potential military applications of chromatophore-mediated colour changes have been proposed, mainly as a type of active camouflage, which could as in cuttlefish make objects nearly invisible. Coleoid cephalopods (including octopuses, squids and cuttlefish) have complex multicellular organs that they use to change colour rapidly, producing a wide variety of bright colours and patterns. Each chromatophore unit is composed of a
Researchers Develop Simple Paper Test That Quickly Diagnoses Illnesses by Changing Colour [SEP] Color blindness // and Rittler) is a red-green color test that, unlike the Ishihara, also has plates for the detection of the tritan defects. Most clinical tests are designed to be fast, simple, and effective at identifying broad categories of color blindness. In academic studies of color blindness, on the other hand, there is more interest in developing flexible tests to collect thorough datasets, identify copunctal points, and measure just noticeable differences. There is generally no treatment to cure color deficiencies. ″The American Optometric Association reports a contact lens on one eye can increase the ability to differentiate between colors, though nothing can
A Johns Hopkins scientist issued a "blistering report" on flu vaccine dangers in the British Medical Journal. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic vaccine // of medical microbiology at the Johannes Gutenberg University of Mainz in Germany, wrote in the journal, "Medical Microbiology and Immunology", of the possibility that immune stimulation by vaccines or any other cause might worsen pre-existing heart disease. Chris Shaw, a neuroscientist at the University of British Columbia, expressed concern that serious side-effects may not appear immediately; he said it took five to ten years to see most of the Gulf War syndrome outcomes. The CDC states that most studies on modern influenza vaccines have seen no link with GBS, Although one review gives an incidence of about one case per
A Johns Hopkins scientist issued a "blistering report" on flu vaccine dangers in the British Medical Journal. [SEP] Lynne McTaggart // drug Tamiflu for a vaccine and attributing deaths to a nonexistent avian influenza vaccine. Ben Goldacre has described McTaggart as "viciously, viciously anti-vaccine" and notes that "In a radical move, even for the vaccine fear-mongering community, this time she has people dying from a vaccine that "doesn’t actually exist"". "The Field" has been characterized by Mark Henderson of "The Times" as pseudoscience, focusing on her personal understanding of quantum physics as a misconception. McTaggart was reported to have threatened to sue Simon Singh after he contacted Comag, the distributors of WDDTY, complaining that the magazine was "largely unscientific" and "promoting
A Johns Hopkins scientist issued a "blistering report" on flu vaccine dangers in the British Medical Journal. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic vaccine // pregnancy" and that high levels of immunization would avert "a significant number of deaths". A 2004 review of the safety of influenza vaccines in children stated that the live vaccine had been shown to be safe but that it might trigger wheezing in some children with asthma; less data for the trivalent inactivated vaccine was available, but no serious symptoms had been seen in clinical trials. "Newsweek" states that "wild rumours" about the swine flu vaccine are being spread through e-mails, it writes that "The claims are nearly pure bunk, with only trace amounts of fact." These rumours generally make
A Johns Hopkins scientist issued a "blistering report" on flu vaccine dangers in the British Medical Journal. [SEP] 1976 swine flu outbreak // to vaccine manufacturers. Bruce Dull states at a flu conference on July 1 that there are no parallels between the 1918 flu pandemic and the current situation. Later that month, J. Anthony Morris, a researcher in the Food and Drug Administration's Bureau of Biologics (BoB) is dismissed for insubordination and goes public with findings that cast doubt on the safety of the vaccine. Three days later, several manufacturers announce they have ceased production of the vaccine. In the latter part of the month, investigations into alleged swine flu outbreaks in other parts of the world find no cases of the
A Johns Hopkins scientist issued a "blistering report" on flu vaccine dangers in the British Medical Journal. [SEP] Vaccine controversies // out regarding whether the 2009 H1N1 flu vaccine was safe in, among other countries, France. Numerous different French groups publicly criticized the vaccine as potentially dangerous. Other safety concerns about vaccines have been published on the Internet, in informal meetings, in books, and at symposia. These include hypotheses that vaccination can cause sudden infant death syndrome, epileptic seizures, allergies, multiple sclerosis, and autoimmune diseases such as type 1 diabetes, as well as hypotheses that vaccinations can transmit bovine spongiform encephalopathy, hepatitis C virus, and HIV. These hypotheses have been investigated, with the conclusion that currently used vaccines meet high safety
A Johns Hopkins scientist issued a "blistering report" on flu vaccine dangers in the British Medical Journal. [SEP] Bonnie S. Dunbar // with it. In June 2001, Dunbar lost everything she had been storing in her lab—"20 years of research" according to the "Houston Chronicle"—after Tropical Storm Allison devastated Baylor College of Medicine. Dunbar has vocally criticized the hepatitis B vaccine, which, she claims, may be more dangerous than Hepatitis B itself for a small portion of the Caucasian population. She began suspecting the vaccine was dangerous after her brother, Bohn, developed rashes on his face, fatigue, and a number of other symptoms after being vaccinated with it. In 2000, Dunbar said that her brother "hasn't been out of bed since" he
A Johns Hopkins scientist issued a "blistering report" on flu vaccine dangers in the British Medical Journal. [SEP] H. Hugh Fudenberg // on Vaccination, held by the National Vaccine Information Center in Arlington, Virginia in 1997. The origin of the claim is unknown, as there is no study published in a peer-reviewed journal making such a claim. One study found that past exposure to influenza vaccine actually decreased the risk of Alzheimer's. In 1995 Fudenberg's medical license was revoked. The Casewatch website states: "the South Carolina medical board found Fudenberg "guilty of engaging in dishonorable, unethical, or unprofessional conduct," fined him $10,000, ordered him to surrender his license to prescribe controlled substances (narcotic drugs), and placed his license on indefinite suspension." The
A Johns Hopkins scientist issued a "blistering report" on flu vaccine dangers in the British Medical Journal. [SEP] Neal Halsey // inactivated polio virus, pertussis, Haemophilus influenzae type B, tetanus, Lyme disease, rotavirus, Argentina Hemorrhagic Fever, human papillomavirus (HPV) and influenzae vaccine viruses. Measles control has been an interest of Halsey's, and he supports ongoing measles and polio eradication efforts. Halsey has worked internationally in many developing countries including Haiti, Peru, Guatemala, Kenya, Thiopia and Pakistan. A lot of his works in Haiti focused on maternal and child health issues. He collaborated with Reginald Boulos on many of these papers. Halsey is the director of the Institute for Vaccine Safety, which was established in 1997 at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School
A Johns Hopkins scientist issued a "blistering report" on flu vaccine dangers in the British Medical Journal. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic vaccine // million vaccinations, a large study in China, reported in "The New England Journal of Medicine" covering close to 100 million doses of H1N1 flu vaccine found only eleven cases of Guillain–Barré syndrome, actually lower than the normal rate of the disease in China, and no other notable side effects. A 2009 review of the use of influenza vaccines in pregnant women stated that influenza infections posed a major risk during pregnancy and that multiple studies had shown that the inactivated vaccine was safe in pregnant women, concluding that this vaccine "can be safely and effectively administered during any trimester of
A Johns Hopkins scientist issued a "blistering report" on flu vaccine dangers in the British Medical Journal. [SEP] Judith Wilyman PhD controversy // journal "Vaccine" three months later, UoW's executive dean of the Faculty of Science, Medicine and Health, researcher and toxicologist Alison Jones, co-authored a paper in-part referring to Wilyman, and in discussing the balance of good public health versus unchecked academic freedom stated: Martin responded to Durrheim and Jones, arguing that they had misrepresented parts of Wilyman's work. McIntyre, a senior doctor at the Westmead Children's Hospital, said that Wollongong University "must bear the major responsibility for manifestly inadequate supervision", saying: "It is clear from even cursory examination that Wilyman’s thesis, although raising some legitimate questions about gaps in both the
Lawsuit filed against county mental health agency. [SEP] Laura's Law // trial and was sent to Atascadero State Hospital and was later transferred to California's Napa State Hospital. After the incident Laura's parents chose to advocate for assisted outpatient treatment of individuals considered to have mental illness. The law is only operative in those counties in which the county board of supervisors, by resolution, authorizes its application and makes a finding that no voluntary mental health program serving adults, and no children's mental health program, was reduced in order to implement the law. In 2004, Los Angeles County implemented Laura's Law on a limited basis. Since the passage of the MHSA,
Lawsuit filed against county mental health agency. [SEP] New York Civil Liberties Union // D-35th S.D., during the 2009 legislative session. In May 2007, the NYCLU (attorney Chris Hansen), along with Mental Hygiene Legal Services and Kirkland & Ellis LLP, filed a lawsuit against Kings County Hospital Center in Brooklyn. The lawsuit described the hospital's psychiatric emergency room and inpatient unit as "a chamber of filth, decay, indifference and danger", and sought to end abusive treatment in the hospital's psychiatric facilities. The conditions at the hospital drew national attention in 2008 when the NYCLU released security camera footage of a woman dying on the hospital's waiting room floor, after hospital staff ignored her for
Lawsuit filed against county mental health agency. [SEP] Laura's Law // bests describes it as part of the recovery movement. In November 2004, California voters passed Proposition 63. When the California Department of Mental Health (DMH) released its draft plan requirements for county mental health administrators on February 15, 2005, they contained a provision that would allow MHSA funds to be used for "involuntary services" if certain criteria were met. Nevada County's Laura's Law program and Los Angeles County's AOT pilot project are utilizing MHSA funding for services. As stated above, the patient must have a serious mental illness plus a recent history of psychiatric hospitalizations, jailings or acts, threats or
Lawsuit filed against county mental health agency. [SEP] NYC Health + Hospitals // four consecutive years for its use of information technology in safety, quality, customer service, business processes and workforce training. Conditions at the psychiatric unit of the Kings County Hospital Center in Brooklyn, one of 11 HHC hospitals, remain the subject of a lawsuit and scrutiny by the press. In May 2007, the New York State Mental Hygiene Legal Service, the New York Civil Liberties Union, and Kirkland & Ellis, a private law firm, filed a lawsuit against Kings County Hospital. The plaintiffs charged that its psychiatric unit was "a chamber of filth, decay, indifference and danger." The May 2007 lawsuit
Lawsuit filed against county mental health agency. [SEP] Ginger Lerner-Wren // County Mental Health Court have received numerous honors and recognition related to the innovation of the Court, the application of Therapeutic Jurisprudence, and for the humanitarian treatment of persons with severe mental illness. The Broward County Mental Health Court, through its application of Therapeutic Jurisprudence, is recognized as best practice and showcased at The White House Conference on Mental Health in 1999. It was the model for the Federal Legislation passed by Congress in 2000 in comprehensive Mental Health Act to promote Mental Health Courts nationwide (Mentally Ill Offender Treatment and Crime Reduction Act of 2000). The Council of State
Lawsuit filed against county mental health agency. [SEP] Mental health court // strategy. Shortly after the establishment of the Broward County Mental Health Court, other mental health courts began to open in jurisdictions around the U.S., launched by practitioners who believed that standard punishments were ineffective when applied to the mentally ill. In Alaska, for example, the state's first mental health court (established in Anchorage in 1998) was spearheaded by Judge Stephanie Rhoades, who felt probation alone was inadequate. "I started seeing a lot of people in criminal misdemeanors who were cycling through the system and who simply did not understand their probation conditions or what they were doing in jail. I
Lawsuit filed against county mental health agency. [SEP] Mental health court // patient's compliance with the treatment plan. Patients who did not follow the treatment plan faced sanctions, a modification of the plan, or if they were on diversion their original charge could be set for trial. Judge Goodman's concept and the original mental health court were dissolved in the early 1990s. In 1995, Judge Goodman was reprimanded for nepotism. In the mid-1990s, many of the professional mental health workers who had worked with Judge Goodman sought to re-establish a mental health court in Indianapolis. Representatives of the county's mental health service providers and other stake holders began meeting weekly. The group
Lawsuit filed against county mental health agency. [SEP] NYC Health + Hospitals // alleged that patients at the Kings County Hospital "are subjected to overcrowded and squalid conditions often accompanied by physical abuse and unnecessary and punitive injections of mind-altering drugs." In December 2007, the U.S. Department of Justice and the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of New York began a separate investigation. In June 2008, the plaintiffs in the May 2007 lawsuit released a video of Esmin Green, a 49-year-old patient, dying on the floor of a waiting room in King County Hospital after waiting to be seen by at the psychiatric emergency department for more than 24 hours. Shortly
Lawsuit filed against county mental health agency. [SEP] Bridgewater State Hospital // was the subject of a formal complaint that accused him of making a racial slur to a patient 2007, The Disability Law Center, a human rights advocacy firm in Boston, sued Bridgewater State Hospital over illegally restraining a patient. 2007 A patient committed suicide by hanging himself in the showers while there on a 30-day court evaluation when BSH staff failed to prevent it. 2004 The family of murdered inmate William Mosher planned to sue the state and BSH for $150 million for failing to protect their son. 2004 William Mosher Jr., a patient who suffered from bipolar disorder, was
Lawsuit filed against county mental health agency. [SEP] Universal Health Services // psychiatric services or for the development of initial or continuing treatment plans. The settlement further resolved allegations that the entities filed false records or statements to Medicaid when they filed treatment plans that falsely represented the level of services that would be provided to the patients. On December 7, 2016, Buzzfeed published a report detailing questionable practices within UHS psychiatric facilities. The report includes allegations of holding nonthreatening patients against their will, manipulative misinterpretation of patient testimonies to fit guidelines to involuntary confinement, aggressive staff layoffs and understaffing in hospitals, needless patient deaths due to understaffing and misprescription of medication,
U.S. doctors on coronavirus frontline seek protection from malpractice suits. [SEP] Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus // risky. Not studying it is riskier." Dr. Zaki was fired from his job at the hospital as a result of bypassing the Saudi ministry of health in his announcement and sharing his sample and findings. At their annual meeting of the World Health Assembly in May 2013, WHO chief Margaret Chan declared that intellectual property, or patents on strains of new virus, should not impede nations from protecting their citizens by limiting scientific investigations. Deputy Health Minister Ziad Memish raised concerns that scientists who held the patent for the MERS-CoV virus would not allow other scientists to use patented material
U.S. doctors on coronavirus frontline seek protection from malpractice suits. [SEP] HONOReform // represented 19 of the 99 Nebraska patients in their malpractice claims. HONOReform was founded in 2007 using settlement funds Evelyn McKnight secured in her malpractice trial. HONOReform was established to advocate patient justice, safety, and compassion by promoting the lessons learned from hepatitis outbreaks. Since its formation, HONOReform advocates have lobbied the U.S. Congress and federal health agencies for greater oversight of private physician offices and other stand-alone healthcare facilities. HONOReform has fought to raise awareness to widely accepted healthcare standards that call for using syringes and similar products once. In addition to its federal advocacy efforts, HONOReform leaders have
U.S. doctors on coronavirus frontline seek protection from malpractice suits. [SEP] Health care quality // on avoiding medical malpractice. Health care professionals are not immune to lawsuits; therefore, health care organizations have taken initiatives to establish protocols specifically to reduce malpractice litigation. Malpractice concerns can result in defensive medicine, or threat of malpractice litigation, which can compromise patient safety and care by inducing additional testing or treatments. One widely used form of defensive medicine is ordering costly imaging which can be wasteful. However, other defensive behaviors may actually reduce access to care and pose risks of physical harm. Many specialty physicians report doing more for patients, such as using unnecessary diagnostic tests, because of malpractice
U.S. doctors on coronavirus frontline seek protection from malpractice suits. [SEP] Middle East respiratory syndrome // pneumonia and acute renal failure. After routine diagnostics failed to identify the causative agent, Zaki contacted Ron Fouchier, a leading virologist at the Erasmus Medical Center (EMC) in Rotterdam, the Netherlands, for advice. Fouchier sequenced the virus from a sample sent by Zaki. Fouchier used a broad-spectrum "pan-coronavirus" real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) method to test for distinguishing features of a number of known coronaviruses (such as OC43, 229R, NL63, and SARS-CoV), as well as for RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp), a gene conserved in all coronaviruses known to infect humans. While the screens for known coronaviruses were all negative, the
U.S. doctors on coronavirus frontline seek protection from malpractice suits. [SEP] Medical Protective // Medical Protective, "AAA" and "A++" respectively. 2007 - Medical Protective insures stand-alone surgery centers, cancer treatment centers, dialysis centers and imaging centers, and forges partnerships with specialty organizations and associations to offer solutions to their members. Medical Protective MedPro Group, formerly known as Medical Protective, is an American liability insurance company for physicians and dentists. Medical Protective traces its roots back to a predecessor company, the Physicians’ Guarantee Company. Alpheus P. Buchman, MD and Miles F. Porter, MD, both of Fort Wayne, Indiana, formed the Physicians' Guarantee Company in 1899 to provide pre-paid legal defense services for medical malpractice lawsuits.
U.S. doctors on coronavirus frontline seek protection from malpractice suits. [SEP] Medical Protective // Medical Protective MedPro Group, formerly known as Medical Protective, is an American liability insurance company for physicians and dentists. Medical Protective traces its roots back to a predecessor company, the Physicians’ Guarantee Company. Alpheus P. Buchman, MD and Miles F. Porter, MD, both of Fort Wayne, Indiana, formed the Physicians' Guarantee Company in 1899 to provide pre-paid legal defense services for medical malpractice lawsuits. The company is considered one of the first companies to offer pre-paid legal defense services in the United States. In 1902, Physicians’ Guarantee Company changed its name to the Physicians’ Defense Company. In 1907, Byron H.
U.S. doctors on coronavirus frontline seek protection from malpractice suits. [SEP] Healthcare Quality Improvement Act // by the U.S. Court of Appeals on the grounds that existing Oregon statutes already protected the peer review committee members from prosecution and that these protections should extend to federal antitrust suits brought by individuals for monetary (but not injunctive) relief.) Soon thereafter Congressman Wyden introduced HCQIA in an effort to extend state peer review immunities on a federal level. The rising numbers of medical malpractice lawsuits during the preceding decade played a factor in the passage of the act. It was claimed that physicians with a history of malpractice suits could move easily from state to state with no
U.S. doctors on coronavirus frontline seek protection from malpractice suits. [SEP] Medical malpractice in the United States // Court of California, the state's non-economic damages caps are "not a legislative attempt to estimate the true damages suffered by plaintiffs, but rather an attempt to control and reduce medical malpractice insurance costs by placing a predictable, uniform limit on the defendant's liability for noneconomic damages." Texas law creates the most difficult "hurdles" in the United States for a plaintiff to succeed in recovering damages for any medical malpractice, even for such objective cases such as an emergency room exposure to the Ebola virus disease. Texas passed a "tort reform" law taking effect on September 1, 2003. The act limited
U.S. doctors on coronavirus frontline seek protection from malpractice suits. [SEP] Medical malpractice in the United States // of the American public also vastly underestimate the extent of medical errors. Recent research has shown that while both health consumers and health producers are concerned about some of the adverse consequences of healthcare litigation, health consumers perceive that increased healthcare litigation can reduce the incentives for negligence on the part of healthcare providers. At the same time, studies of these claims have found that there is no problem of increasing malpractice verdicts and insurance costs driving doctors out of business. The traditional approach to liability reform is to limit the amount of damages that can be recovered by a
U.S. doctors on coronavirus frontline seek protection from malpractice suits. [SEP] HONOReform // an audiologist who was battling a recurrence of breast cancer when she learned she had been infected with hepatitis C because improper injection safety protocols at the Fremont Cancer Center. During chemotherapy treatments, medical professionals access multi-dose bags of saline to flush patient ports. Outbreaks occur as a result of doctors and nurses reusing syringes, contaminating the saline bag with the blood of multiple patients. Tom McKnight – Evelyn’s husband – is a local family practice physician who helped uncover the outbreak when some of his patients were found to have hepatitis C. Travis Bennington is a local attorney who
Massachusetts’ ban on vaping product sales allowed to stand. [SEP] Cannabis in Massachusetts // been approved and begun operations, and the stores received final sign-off. During the first week of sales, excluding Thanksgiving Day where both locations were closed, $2,217,621.13 in sales was sold between the 2 locations. As of October 29, 2018, the following 179 towns have either a permanent ban (84) or a moratorium (95) currently in place on retail marijuana stores: Nantucket and Martha's Vineyard are islands which are separated from the mainland by federal waters. The state medical marijuana law requires a dispensary in every county; each island is its own county, but the problem of federal jurisdiction has created
Massachusetts’ ban on vaping product sales allowed to stand. [SEP] Cannabis in Massachusetts // the majority of voters in the municipality were in favor of the statewide Question 4; otherwise, the city council can approve a ban on its own. Applicants must also hold a community meeting and negotiate an agreement with the host municipality in order to get a state license. As of March 2018, 59 municipalities had enacted a permanent ban, and 130 had enacted a temporary moratorium (all of which end sometime in 2018). Retail sales have a 10.75% excise tax on the marijuana, on top of the general 6.25% state sales tax, and up to a 3% local option tax,
Massachusetts’ ban on vaping product sales allowed to stand. [SEP] Cannabis in Massachusetts // and sidewalks, is illegal, as is smoking it while driving. An unlicensed sale (including barter) is illegal for the seller but not the buyer; giving away home-grown marijuana for free is allowed. Governor Charlie Baker signed legislation on December 30, 2016 extending the start date for legal licensed recreational cannabis sales by six months, to July 2018. Cities and towns have the power to require permits, block recreational stores from locating in certain areas (through zoning bylaws) or from locating in the municipality at all. However, the law mandates that a ban must be approved by a local referendum if
Massachusetts’ ban on vaping product sales allowed to stand. [SEP] Vape shop // business. In late November 2015, Bill 44 was passed by the National Assembly, which regulates e-cigarettes as tobacco products. It bans using e-cigarettes in vape shops, bans indoor displays and advertising, and bans sales on their websites. Vape trade shows have an array of product vendors, seminars, social interactions with other vapers, parties, gifts, vaping contests, and other activities. By 2015, the number of vaping trade show organizations arranging vape trade shows had grown to 41. This includes 90 trade shows, with 6 set for 2016 in 8 countries. Vape shows were organized in 26 US states. They ranged from
Massachusetts’ ban on vaping product sales allowed to stand. [SEP] Massachusetts Tobacco Cessation and Prevention Program // tobacco products to minors. One of the more aggressive forms of youth smoking prevention has been the strict enforcement of laws that prevent sale of tobacco products to minors. Massachusetts has been extremely successful in decreasing youth tobacco sales. Illegal tobacco sales to minors dropped form 44% in 1994 to 11% in 1999. Additionally, illegal sales of tobacco were cut in half from 2006 to 2007. Youth prevention programs also play a key role in lowering smoking rates among minors. Throughout MTCP, many anti-tobacco programs have been created to encourage youth to avoid using tobacco products. One example of such
Massachusetts’ ban on vaping product sales allowed to stand. [SEP] Tobacco-Free Pharmacies // Star Market, Stop & Shop, Target, Walgreens, Walmart and various independent pharmacies. A number of the Massachusetts municipalities listed extend the tobacco sales ban in pharmacies to include the sale of "nicotine delivery products", including electronic cigarettes. "Nicotine delivery products" are defined as manufactured products that contain nicotine, but not tobacco, and are not FDA approved. On February 5, 2014, CVS Pharmacy, (7600 locations) announced that by October 2014 its stores will stop selling all tobacco products including cigarettes and cigars. In a statement explaining the change, CVS President & CEO Larry J. Merlo said, "We came to the decision
Massachusetts’ ban on vaping product sales allowed to stand. [SEP] Cannabis in Massachusetts // card. The law allows for 35 state-licensed non-profit dispensaries. The Massachusetts Department of Public Health has until May 1, 2013 to issue further regulations. Marijuana dispensaries will not be able to open until after the regulations have been set. The Massachusetts Medical Society opposes the bill, saying there is no scientific proof that marijuana is safe and effective. After the law passed, towns attempted to ban dispensaries. Attorney General Martha M. Coakley ruled that cities and towns cannot ban dispensaries, and can only regulate them. Complete bans would conflict with the law. In the November 8, 2016 election, Massachusetts voters
Massachusetts’ ban on vaping product sales allowed to stand. [SEP] Cannabis in Massachusetts // 1911 (some sources state 1914) Massachusetts became the first state to restrict cannabis on a state level, prohibiting the sale of "Indian hemp" without a prescription. On November 4, 2008, Massachusetts voters passed a ballot that decriminalized the possession of small amounts of marijuana. The Massachusetts Sensible Marijuana Policy Initiative made the possession of less than one ounce of marijuana punishable by a fine of $100 without the possessor being reported to the state’s criminal history board. Minors also had to notify their parents, take a drug awareness program, and complete 10 hours of community service. Before decriminalization, people charged
Massachusetts’ ban on vaping product sales allowed to stand. [SEP] Concord, Massachusetts // has been bubbling in Concord for several years. In 2010, a town meeting-approved ban, which wasn't written as a bylaw, was rejected by the state attorney general's office. In 2011, a new version of the ban narrowly failed at town meeting, by a vote of 265 to 272. The ban on selling water in polyethylene terephthalate (PET) bottles of one liter or less passed in 2012 by a vote of 403 to 364, and a repeal effort in April failed by a vote of 621 to 687. According to the United States Census Bureau, the town has a total area
Massachusetts’ ban on vaping product sales allowed to stand. [SEP] Massachusetts No Sales Tax for Alcohol Initiative // the measure reads: This proposed law would remove the Massachusetts sales tax on alcoholic beverages and alcohol, where the sale of such beverages and alcohol or their importation into the state is already subject to a separate excise tax under state law. The proposed law would take effect on January 1, 2011. A YES VOTE would remove the state sales tax on alcoholic beverages and alcohol where their sale or importation into the state is subject to an excise tax under state law. A NO VOTE would make no change in the state sales tax on alcoholic beverages and alcohol.
Afghan capital’s air pollution may be even deadlier than war. [SEP] Environmental issues in Afghanistan // the rest of the cities’ waste, contaminating water and air with bacteria and viruses. Lack of sewage management is not unique to Kabul. In urban areas, open sewers are common while wastewater treatment is not. Much of the urban water supply is contaminated by Escherichia coli and other bacteria. Oil refineries are another source of water contamination. In Herat and Mazar-e-Sharif, crude oil spills and leaks are uncontained and unsafe levels of hydrocarbons reach residential water supplies. Air pollution does not constitute a major problem in Afghanistan, but its reliance on inexpensive energy has created some issues. Most vehicles run
Afghan capital’s air pollution may be even deadlier than war. [SEP] Environmental issues in Tajikistan // ranking 133rd in the world in greenhouse gas emissions. Air pollution is a particular problem during times of the year when atmospheric conditions hold industrial and vehicle emissions close to the surface in urban areas. In summer, dust and sand from the deserts of Uzbekistan and Turkmenistan cause air pollution across the entire southwestern lowland region. Although a destructive civil war, budget shortfalls, poverty, and the dissolution of the Soviet Union reduced industrial and agricultural activity, these issues, as well as the destruction of infrastructure and loss of Soviet programs (such as the Committee on Nature Protection, state-owned agriculture, and
Afghan capital’s air pollution may be even deadlier than war. [SEP] Smog // in 2006 concluded that much of the city's pollution comes from surrounding cities and provinces. On average 35–60% of the ozone can be traced to sources outside the city. Shandong Province and Tianjin Municipality have a "significant influence on Beijing's air quality", partly due to the prevailing south/southeasterly flow during the summer and the mountains to the north and northwest. In 1306, concerns over air pollution were sufficient for Edward I to (briefly) ban coal fires in London. In 1661, John Evelyn's "Fumifugium" suggested burning fragrant wood instead of mineral coal, which he believed would reduce coughing. The "" the
Afghan capital’s air pollution may be even deadlier than war. [SEP] Environmental issues in Afghanistan // on diesel fuel, and household energy often rely on burning wood and other materials. As a result, air pollution in urban areas is visible and may pose health issues. Environmental issues in Afghanistan Environmental issues in Afghanistan predate the political turmoil of the past few decades. Forests and wetlands have been depleted by centuries of grazing and farming, practices which have only increased with modern population growth. In Afghanistan, environmental conservation and economic concerns are not at odds; with 80% of the population dependent on herding or farming, the welfare of the environment is critical to the economic welfare of
Afghan capital’s air pollution may be even deadlier than war. [SEP] Environmental issues in Afghanistan // Hamid Karzai recently announced that his administration will investigate the matter. In 2002, the United Nations Environment Programme found that a lack of waste management systems was creating dangerous conditions in several urban areas. In Kabul's districts 5 and 6, household and medical waste was discarded on streets. Human waste was contained in open sewers, which flowed into the Kabul River and contaminated the city’s drinking water. Urban dumpsites are used in lieu of managed landfills in Kabul, Kandahar and Herat, often without protection of nearby rivers and groundwater supplies. Medical waste from hospitals is disposed in the dumpsites with
Afghan capital’s air pollution may be even deadlier than war. [SEP] Air pollution in Delhi // Air pollution in Delhi The air quality in Delhi, the capital of India, according to a WHO survey of 1600 world cities, is the worst of any major city in the world.<ref name="GARDINER HARRIS, 14/2"></ref> Air pollution in India is estimated to kill 1.5 million people every year; it is the fifth largest killer in India. India has the world's highest death rate from chronic respiratory diseases and asthma, according to the WHO. In Delhi, poor quality air irreversibly damages the lungs of 2.2 million or 50 percent of all children. Air quality index of Delhi is generally Moderate (101-200)
Afghan capital’s air pollution may be even deadlier than war. [SEP] Environmental issues in Pakistan // Karachi, especially in the large metropolises. According to a World Bank report, "Karachi's urban air pollution is among the most severe in the world and it engenders significant damages to human health and the economy"The inefficient use of energy, an increase in the number of vehicles used daily, an increase in unregulated industrial emissions and the burning of garbage and plastic have contributed the most to air pollution in urban areas. According to a recent study, Karachi's Environment Protection Department claims that the average level of pollution in big cities is approximately four times higher than the World Health Organisation's
Afghan capital’s air pollution may be even deadlier than war. [SEP] Environmental issues in Tehran // air pollution index of the capital as 161 which is in the red zone. Tehran sits on two major fault lines, and it has been hit by over 1000 big and small earthquakes; although, the region has not been hit by a severe earthquake in the last 150 years. The city has been rapidly growing, and many buildings have been constructed without enough earthquake readiness. This is while there has been a 90% chance of an extent 6.0 or greater earthquake in the coming decades. In 2010, the government announced that "for security and administrative reasons, the plan to move
Afghan capital’s air pollution may be even deadlier than war. [SEP] Air pollution in Delhi // Beijing's air. As of October 2017, experts in several monitoring stations have reportedly measured an air quality index (AQI) of 999. According to said experts this is the equivalent of smoking 45 to 50 cigarettes a day. This has led to some government officials, such as Arvind Kejriwal calling the nation's capital a "gas chamber". Safe levels for PM according to the WHO's air quality guidelines are 20 μg/m (annual mean) for PM and 10 μg/m (annual mean) for PM. 2.2 million children in Delhi have irreversible lung damage due to the poor quality of the air. In addition, research
Afghan capital’s air pollution may be even deadlier than war. [SEP] Tangshan // the area receives 2,600−2,900 hours of sunshine annually. As air pollution in China is at an all-time high, several Hebei cities are among the most polluted in the country and Tangshan has some of the worst air quality in China. Reporting on China's airpocalypse has been accompanied by what seems like a monochromatic slideshow of the country's several cities smothered in thick smog. According to a survey made by "Global voices China" in February 2013, 7 cities in Hebei including Xingtai, Shijiazhuang, Baoding, Handan, Langfang, Hengshui and Tangshan, are among China's 10 most polluted cities. Tangshan is an important heavy
Anti-abortion groups are claiming every sperm cell is "a life. [SEP] Every Life Counts // selected as one of the groups to make a presentation to the members of the Citizens' Assembly Every Life Counts Every Life Counts is a campaign and support network for families whose child is diagnosed with fatal foetal abnormalities, and an anti-abortion campaign group in Ireland. They campaign for the creation of a perinatal hospice in Ireland, as an opposition to abortion in cases of fatal foetal abnormalities, claiming it is not a "pathway to healing", and that abortion causes depression and distress. They are opposed to the term ""fatal foetal abnormalities"" or ""incompatible with life"" calling it an "ugly
Anti-abortion groups are claiming every sperm cell is "a life. [SEP] Philosophical aspects of the abortion debate // (or perhaps a sperm and ovum jointly) have a future like ours, contraception would be as wrong as murder; but as this conclusion is (it is said) absurd—even those who believe contraception is wrong do not believe it is as wrong as murder—the argument must be unsound. One response is that neither the sperm, nor the egg, nor any particular sperm-egg combination, will ever "itself" live out a valuable future: what will later have valuable experiences, activities, projects, and enjoyments is a "new entity", a "new organism", that will come into existence at or near conception; and it is "this"
Anti-abortion groups are claiming every sperm cell is "a life. [SEP] Every Life Counts // abnormalities"" (e.g. Patau syndrome Trisomy 13), live for many years after birth. In 2015, members addressed the "Rally for Life", a pro-life protest organised by Youth Defence and the Life Institute, to speak about abortion. After the 2016 Mellet v Ireland UN case, they claimed the United Nations Human Rights Committee "deliberately ignored the experiences of families who had received great joy and love from carrying their babies to term" They made a submission to the Citizens' Assembly, which discussed Ireland's abortion laws, where they claimed that abortion is not a solution to a fatal foetal abnormalities diagnosis. They were
Anti-abortion groups are claiming every sperm cell is "a life. [SEP] United States anti-abortion movement // have an anti-abortion theme. Choose Life, an advocacy group founded in 1997, was successful in securing an anti-abortion automobile tag in Florida. Subsequently, the organization has been actively helping groups in other states pursue "Choose Life" license plates. Some anti-abortion organizations and individuals disseminate false medical information and unsupported pseudoscientific claims about alleged physical and mental health risks of abortion. Many right-to-life organizations claim that abortion damages future fertility, or causes breast cancer, which is contradicted by the medical professional organizations. Some states, such as Alaska, Mississippi, West Virginia, Texas, and Kansas, have passed laws requiring abortion providers to warn
Anti-abortion groups are claiming every sperm cell is "a life. [SEP] United States anti-abortion movement // to begin at fertilization, they refer to these contraceptives as abortifacients because they cause the embryo to starve. An embryo gets its nourishment off the uterine wall and dies if not attached. The Catholic Church endorses this view, but the possibility that hormonal contraception has post-fertilization effects is disputed within the scientific community, including some anti-abortion physicians. Attachment to an anti-abortion position is often but not exclusively connected to religious beliefs about the sanctity of life (see also culture of life). Exclusively secular-humanist positions against abortion tend to be a minority viewpoint among anti-abortion advocates; these groups say that their
Anti-abortion groups are claiming every sperm cell is "a life. [SEP] Every Life Counts // Every Life Counts Every Life Counts is a campaign and support network for families whose child is diagnosed with fatal foetal abnormalities, and an anti-abortion campaign group in Ireland. They campaign for the creation of a perinatal hospice in Ireland, as an opposition to abortion in cases of fatal foetal abnormalities, claiming it is not a "pathway to healing", and that abortion causes depression and distress. They are opposed to the term ""fatal foetal abnormalities"" or ""incompatible with life"" calling it an "ugly term", preferring the term ""life limiting condition"". The point out that some people diagnosed with ""fatal foetal
Anti-abortion groups are claiming every sperm cell is "a life. [SEP] Life (UK organisation) // the human embryo, while the 1990s saw the creation of a professionalised and centralised LIFE Housing department able to co-ordinate closely with local authorities and social services. Life also has links to pro-life groups in other countries, notably Malta, Sri Lanka and the Republic of Ireland. Although access to abortion is heavily restricted in Northern Ireland – much more so than in the rest of the UK – there are a number of active local Life groups in the region. Although it co-operates with faith groups in some areas of its work, Life has no religious affiliations, and its views
Anti-abortion groups are claiming every sperm cell is "a life. [SEP] Schlesinger Institute // through Rishonim and Acharonim. It covers thousands of rulings from halachic literature, including up-to-date material from contemporary authorities all over the world such as Rav M. Feinstein, Rav Sh.Z. Auerbach, Rav Waldenberg, Rav Eliashiv, Rav Ovadia Yosef, Rav Wosner and Rav Neuwirth. Problems are covered as far-ranging as the doctor and patient on weekdays and Shabbat, Yom Kippur and Pesach, in the hospital or at home, hospice, end of life and brain death, pregnancy and assisted reproduction, contraception and abortion, brit milah and the medical problems of niddah, medical malpractice and claims, genetic engineering and cloning, DNA and stem cells,
Anti-abortion groups are claiming every sperm cell is "a life. [SEP] Secular Pro-Life // option. Their fetal personhood argument states that a fetus is a human being recognized as a person that possesses human rights, and that the concept of bodily autonomy of mothers does not permit abortions in the majority of circumstances. SPL does not have a position on abortion in the case of rape. SPL is in favor of barrier-based contraception, along with any other form of contraception that prevents fertilization but does not prevent the implantation of the blastocyst, and the organization also supports sex education. While geared towards the non-religious, Secular Pro-Life states that they are open to religious believers,
Anti-abortion groups are claiming every sperm cell is "a life. [SEP] Pro-Life Alliance of Gays and Lesbians // shows a link between abortion and breast cancer that has generally been rejected by the medical community. They have also taken the position that even if a woman is infected with HIV she should not abort the fetus because there are ways to prevent the transmission of the virus from the mother. They support expanding access to antiretroviral drugs for all people who need such treatment, including pregnant women and their fetuses. In March 2005, PLAGAL came out in support of legislation introduced by Maine state legislator Brian Duprey, which assuming that science would discover a significant genetic component to
Biogen multiple sclerosis drug Tecfidera wins European approval. [SEP] Dimethyl fumarate // for MS, and in 2010 the Danish company Forward Pharma acquired Aditech's patents. Meanwhile, Biogen continued developing its oral formulation of DMF from Fumapharm under the code name BG-12; it was approved, under the trade name Tecfidera, for the treatment of adults with relapsing forms of MS in March 2013. Biogen priced the drug at $54,000 per year in the US. It was approved in Europe in 2014. In the UK NICE issued a guidance recommending the drug as cost-effective, but only if person does not have highly active or rapidly evolving severe relapsing–remitting multiple sclerosis and only if Biogen
Biogen multiple sclerosis drug Tecfidera wins European approval. [SEP] Management of multiple sclerosis // that inhibits the synthesis of pyrimidine and disrupts the interaction of T cells with antigen presenting cell. Fingolimod and teriflunomide are taken through a daily single dose. In 2013 one further oral drug, dimethyl fumarate -or BG12- (which is an improved version of fumaric acid, an already existing drug), was approved by the FDA. Dimethyl fumarate is taken twice daily. Another oral drug, cladribine, was approved in Russia and Australia in 2010. Its application was rejected by the FDA and EMEA in 2011 due to safety concerns in spite of the promising efficacy of the drug. This led the pharmaceutical
Biogen multiple sclerosis drug Tecfidera wins European approval. [SEP] Cladribine // announced it would again seek regulatory approval with data from the completed clinical trials in hand, and in 2016 the EMA accepted its application for review. On June 22, 2017, the EMA's Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the treatment of relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis. Finally, after all these problems it was approved in Europe on August 2017 for highly active RRMS. Cladribine is an effective treatment for relapsing remitting MS, with a reduction in the annual rate of relapses of 54.5%. These effects may
Biogen multiple sclerosis drug Tecfidera wins European approval. [SEP] Multiple sclerosis drug pipeline // list has been recently joined by cladribine, but only in Europe by now. It is approved for highly active relapsing multiple sclerosis. It has been approved in August 2017, as explained in a press release of its manufacturer (Merk). It has been approved for Europe with the name Mavenclad and is under review by FDA There are few reports comparing these treatments in front of each other. Restricting the research only to relapses, it seems that alemtuzumab is the most cost effective. Due to the aggressiveness of some medications they are classified into first and second lines. First line includes
Biogen multiple sclerosis drug Tecfidera wins European approval. [SEP] Multiple sclerosis research // will be. It is the last stage of drug development and is followed by a submission to the appropriate regulatory agencies (e.g., European Medicines Agency (EMEA) for the European Union, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the United States, Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA) for Australia, etc.) to obtain approval for marketing. Treatment in MS phase III studies is usually 2 years per patient. Currently there are several ongoing phase III trials, and there are also some drugs that are waiting for approval after finishing theirs. For example, Cladribine (under development by Merck Serono; anticipated brand name: "Movectro") is a
Biogen multiple sclerosis drug Tecfidera wins European approval. [SEP] Nivolumab // its subsidiary Genentech) with atezolizumab, GlaxoSmithKline in collaboration with the Maryland biotech company Amplimmune; and Teva in collaboration with the Israeli biotech company CureTech competing. Ono received approval from Japanese regulatory authorities to use nivolumab to treat unresectable melanoma in July 2014, which was the first regulatory approval of a PD-1 inhibitor anywhere in the world. Merck received its first FDA approval for its PD-1 inhibitor, pembrolizumab (Keytruda), in September 2014. Nivolumab received FDA approval for the treatment of melanoma in December 2014. In April 2015, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use of the European Medicines Agency recommended
Biogen multiple sclerosis drug Tecfidera wins European approval. [SEP] Tafamidis // submitting an application for marketing approval in Europe in early 2010. FoldRx was acquired by Pfizer later that year. During its development tafamidis was called Fx-1006A, FX1006A, PF-06291826, and PF-6291826. Tafamidis was approved by the European Medicines Agency in November 2011 to delay peripheral nerve impairment in adults with transthyretin-related hereditary amyloidosis. The FDA rejected the application for marketing approval in the US in 2012 on the basis that the clinical trial did not show efficacy based on a functional endpoint, and the FDA requested further clinical trials. The drug was approved in Japan in 2013; regulators there made the
Biogen multiple sclerosis drug Tecfidera wins European approval. [SEP] Rasagiline // share the costs and obtained the joint right to market the drug in Europe. In 2003 Teva partnered with Eisai, giving Eisai the right to jointly market the drug for Parkinson's in the US, and to co-develop and co-market the drug for Alzheimers and other neurological diseases. It was approved by the European Medicines Agency for Parkinson's in 2005 and in the US in 2006. Rasagiline was tested for efficacy in people with multiple system atrophy in a large randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind disease-modification trial; the drug failed. Teva conducted clinical trials attempting to prove that rasagiline did not just treat
Biogen multiple sclerosis drug Tecfidera wins European approval. [SEP] Laquinimod // reduce relapses in MS among patients beyond a placebo. However, the final results of above-mentioned phase III trial proved oral laquinimod administered once daily slowed the progression of disability and reduced the rate of relapse in patients with relapsing–remitting multiple sclerosis. On May 7, 2013 laquinimod was approved by the Russian Ministry of Health (the FDA analog) as a treatment for relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS) under the brand name Nerventra. Laquinimod Laquinimod is an experimental immunomodulator developed by Active Biotech and Teva. It is being investigated as an oral treatment for multiple sclerosis (MS). Laquinimod is the successor of Active
Biogen multiple sclerosis drug Tecfidera wins European approval. [SEP] Multiple sclerosis drug pipeline // active principles approved which are: Two interferons (interferon beta-1a and interferon beta-1b), glatiramer acetate, mitoxantrone, fingolimod, teriflunomide, dimethyl fumarate and finally three monoclonal antibodies (natalizumab, alemtuzumab and since May 2016 daclizumab) Summarizing in a table which combinations have been tried: Personalized treatment or theranostics in MS is an active field or research. Currently is trying to predict the response to the different known medications. Beta-interferons are contraindicated in cases of anti-AQP4 or anti-MOG seropositivity. Interferon injections can induce neutralising antibodies against them, turning the medication ineffective. IFN-β 1b is more immunogenic than IFN-β 1a, and the subcutaneous administration has a
Blogger Says the Vatican reports that Pope Francis tested negative for the coronavirus before a second test came back positive. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // said virus. The Evangelista Medical Hospital in San Pedro, Laguna, the facility where the patient was first admitted, was temporarily closed by DOH for fourteen days. On 17 February 2015, all those who had exposure or had contact with the said nurse were tested negative of the said virus. On 6 March 2015, The Department of Foreign Affairs confirmed three Filipino female healthcare workers in Saudi Arabia who were infected with MERS-CoV. On 6 July 2015, DOH confirmed the second detected case of MERS-CoV in the country. The patient who had contracted the virus was from the Middle East and
Blogger Says the Vatican reports that Pope Francis tested negative for the coronavirus before a second test came back positive. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // had contact with the Filipino paramedic who had died recently in the said country. The OFW together with four of his family members who fetched him at the airport were quarantined. In a press release on 19 April, DOH announced that the OFW who UAE doctors found positive for MERS-CoV was found negative for the virus in an subsequent test by Research Institute for Tropical Medicine (RITM). Explaining further with the test, Secretary Enrique Ona explained, "Since ten days had lapsed from the reported testing date at the UAE, our task force right away got in touch with him and
Blogger Says the Vatican reports that Pope Francis tested negative for the coronavirus before a second test came back positive. [SEP] Coronavirus // 2013, a case of contamination from human to human in France was confirmed by the French Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. In addition, cases of person-to-person transmission have been reported by the Ministry of Health in Tunisia. Two confirmed cases seem to have caught the disease from their late father, who became ill after a visit to Qatar and Saudi Arabia. By Oct. 30 2013, there were 124 cases and 52 deaths in Saudi Arabia. After the Dutch Erasmus Medical Centre sequenced the virus, the virus was given a new name, Human Corona Virus-Erasmus Medical Centre (HCoV-EMC). The final
Blogger Says the Vatican reports that Pope Francis tested negative for the coronavirus before a second test came back positive. [SEP] Middle East respiratory syndrome // care worker who had been in Saudi Arabia a week earlier, and was reported to be in good condition. A second patient who also traveled from Saudi Arabia was reported in Orlando, Florida on 12 May 2014. On 14 May 2014, officials in the Netherlands reported the first case has appeared. On Saturday, 17 May 2014, a man from Illinois who was a business associate of the first U.S. case (he had met and shook hands with the Indiana health care worker) tested positive for the MERS coronavirus, but has not, as of yet, displayed symptoms (others are probably also,
Blogger Says the Vatican reports that Pope Francis tested negative for the coronavirus before a second test came back positive. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // decided to perform a test on him, and fortunately, as well for the comfort of everybody, the findings of our Research Institute for Tropical Medicine, he tested negative." In the said press release, DOH also announced that they are tracking all other 414 passengers of Etihad Airways Flight 424 (the flight the OFW took from Abu Dhabi, UAE to Manila) in order to be tested. On 11 February 2015, a 32-year-old Filipino nurse from Saudi Arabia, who was also 1 month pregnant, was the country's first MERS-CoV case, DOH confirmed after the test turned out to be positive of the
Blogger Says the Vatican reports that Pope Francis tested negative for the coronavirus before a second test came back positive. [SEP] Ebola virus epidemic in Sierra Leone // who treated the priest tested positive for Ebola. By 20 October 2014 the nurse seemed to have recovered after many days battling the disease in the hospital, with tests coming back negative. A doctor from Senegal contracted Ebola while working in Sierra Leone for the WHO, and was evacuated to Germany at the end of August 2014. By 4 October 2014, it was announced he has recovered and returned to Senegal. In late September, a doctor working for an International Aid organization in Sierra Leone, was evacuated to Switzerland after potentially being exposed. He later tested negative for the disease.
Blogger Says the Vatican reports that Pope Francis tested negative for the coronavirus before a second test came back positive. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // man from the Orlando area, has been reported, and a third Illinois man is as yet asymptomatic but has tested positive for a past infection with the healthcare worker from Indiana. The latter case is the first human-to-human transmission in the United States. On 28 May 2014, the CDC announced that the third person who was found positive for the virus was not infected. The announcement came after a further laboratory analysis by CDC indicating that the person was never infected with the virus. 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak Since 2012, an outbreak of Middle East respiratory syndrome
Blogger Says the Vatican reports that Pope Francis tested negative for the coronavirus before a second test came back positive. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // and from that family at least one additional person presented similar symptoms but tested negative for the novel coronavirus. On 21 February 2013, WHO stated that there had been 13 laboratory-confirmed cases, 6 cases (4 fatal) from Saudi Arabia, 2 cases (both fatal) from Jordan, 2 cases from Qatar, and 3 from the UK. In March 2013, the Saudi Arabia Ministry of Health reported the death of a 39-year-old man, the 15th case and 9th death reported to WHO. On 2 May 2013, the Saudi Ministry of Health announced five people died and two other people were in critical condition
Blogger Says the Vatican reports that Pope Francis tested negative for the coronavirus before a second test came back positive. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // of unknown origin. Of the six, two died. All the cases were reported to the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC). After the September identification of a novel CoV strain, a retroactive analysis of the hospital workers was performed. Epidemiologists discovered the Jordan cases. Using stored laboratory samples for all six, it was found that samples from the two patients who had died tested positive for nCoV. On 24 April 2014, a 25-year-old male was found positive for the coronavirus. He had history of exposure to camels and had consumed camel milk. The Ministry of Health and Medical
Blogger Says the Vatican reports that Pope Francis tested negative for the coronavirus before a second test came back positive. [SEP] Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus // camel strains are intermixed suggesting multiple transmission events. The first confirmed case was reported in Saudi Arabia in 2012. Egyptian virologist Dr. Ali Mohamed Zaki isolated and identified a previously unknown coronavirus from the man's lungs. Dr. Zaki then posted his findings on 24 September 2012 on ProMED-mail. The isolated cells showed cytopathic effects (CPE), in the form of rounding and syncytia formation. A second case was found in September 2012, a 49-year-old male living in Qatar presented with similar flu symptoms, and a sequence of the virus was nearly identical to that of the first case. In November 2012,
Landmark clinical trial shows gene-targeted drug can treat prostate cancer [SEP] Cancer vaccine // of a phase III clinical trial. The approval is for a subset of kidney cancer patients who are at intermediate risk for disease recurrence. It awaits approval in the US and EU. but will need a new trial for FDA approval. Interim results from a phase III trial of talimogene laherparepvec in melanoma showed a significant tumour response compared to administration of GM-CSF alone. Oncophage was approved in Russia in 2008 for kidney cancer. It is marketed by Antigenics Inc. Sipuleucel-T, Provenge, was approved by the FDA in April 2010 for metastatic hormone-refractory prostate cancer. It is marketed by Dendreon
Landmark clinical trial shows gene-targeted drug can treat prostate cancer [SEP] The Immune Response Corporation // one biotech, Dendreon, solved this problem with its prostate cancer treatment.” The team running its facility were experts at producing and distributing the only commercially available cancer immunotherapy, so Novartis purchased the process and the FDA-approved manufacturing facility. Novartis also hired 100 people who were making the prostate cancer immunotherapy and redirected them to the Kymirah CAR-T program. Based on clinical results, the FDA approved Kymriah on August 13, 2017. It was the world’s first gene therapy to reach the market. Its approval was recognized by FDA Commissioner Scott Gottlieb who remarked: “Today marks another milestone in the development of
Landmark clinical trial shows gene-targeted drug can treat prostate cancer [SEP] Cancer vaccine // Dendreon Corporation announced that their Phase III clinical trial of sipuleucel-T, a cancer vaccine designed to treat prostate cancer, had demonstrated an increase in survival. It received U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval for use in the treatment of advanced prostate cancer patients on April 29, 2010. On April 8, 2008, New York–based company Antigenics announced that it had received approval for the first therapeutic cancer vaccine in Russia. It is the first approval by a regulatory body of a cancer immunotherapy. The treatment, Oncophage, increased recurrence-free survival by a little more than a year according to the results
Landmark clinical trial shows gene-targeted drug can treat prostate cancer [SEP] Pertuzumab // receptors and had begun Phase I trials, aiming for a broad range of cancers, not just ones overexpressing HER2. It was the first known HER dimerization inhibitor. In 2005 Genentech presented poor results of Phase II trials of pertuzumab as a single agent in prostate, breast, and ovarian cancers, and said that it intended to continue developing it in combination with other drugs for ovarian cancer. In 2007 Genentech dropped the trade name Omnitarg. In March 2009 Roche acquired Genentech by buying shares it didn't already control. In 2012 the results were published of the CLEOPATRA trial, a randomized placebo-controlled
Landmark clinical trial shows gene-targeted drug can treat prostate cancer [SEP] GenSpera // Administration for the treatment of HCC, the most common form of primary liver cancer. The company also holds patents on prodrug candidates that target the prostate-specific enzymes Prostate Specific Antigen (PSA) and Human Glandular Kallikrein (hK2). These candidates are expected to be useful in the treatment of prostate cancer. The active ingredient in G-202 is a chemotherapeutic agent derived from thapsigargin, a plant-based cytotoxin that kills by disrupting the calcium balance in cancer cells. GenSpera's prodrug delivery system keeps the thapsigargin inactive in the body until it finds cells that it has been programmed to seek. Once those cells in
Landmark clinical trial shows gene-targeted drug can treat prostate cancer [SEP] H19 (gene) // triggered by the presence of H19 transcription factors found only in tumor cells, thus destroying the tumor without affecting normal cells. In a double-center, dose escalation Phase I/IIa clinical trial of BC-819 as a treatment for superficial bladder cancer, no severe adverse events related to the plasmid were detected, and tumor responses were observed in more than 70% of patients, including those with a still not-optimized therapeutic dose and regimen. BC-819 was previously tested in human compassionate use for the treatment of superficial bladder cancer, ovarian cancer and metastatic liver cancer. The bladder cancer patient, who was a candidate for
Landmark clinical trial shows gene-targeted drug can treat prostate cancer [SEP] Prostate cancer // breast cancer stories for each one covering cancer of the prostate. Prostate Cancer Awareness Month takes place in September in a number of countries. A light blue ribbon is used to promote the cause. MDV3100 was in phase III trials for CRPC (chemo-naive and post-chemo patient populations) and gained FDA approval in 2012 as enzalutamide for the treatment of castration-resistant prostate cancer. Alpharadin completed a phase 3 trial for CRPC patients with bone metastasis. A pre-planned interim analysis showed improved survival and quality of life. The study was stopped for ethical reasons to give the placebo group the same treatment.
Landmark clinical trial shows gene-targeted drug can treat prostate cancer [SEP] Sipuleucel-T // basic steps: A complete sipuleucel-T treatment includes three courses at two week intervals. Sipuleucel-T is used to treat people with metastatic, asymptomatic, hormone-refractory prostate cancer (HRPC). Other names for this stage are metastatic castrate-resistant (mCRPC) and androgen independent (AI) or (AIPC). This stage leads to mCRPC with lymph node involvement and distal (distant) tumors; this is the lethal stage of CaP. The prostate cancer staging designation is T4,N1,M1c. Sipuleucel-T showed overall survival (OS) benefit to patients in three double-blind randomized phase III clinical trials, D9901, D9902a, and IMPACT. The IMPACT trial served as the basis for FDA licensing. This trial
Landmark clinical trial shows gene-targeted drug can treat prostate cancer [SEP] Sunitinib // a treatment. Between April 2009 and May 2011 Pfizer has reported unsuccessful late-stage trials in breast cancer, metastatic colorectal cancer, advanced non-small-cell lung cancer, and castration-resistant prostate cancer. The drug was discovered at SUGEN, a biotechnology company which pioneered protein kinase inhibitors. It was the third in a series of compounds including SU5416 and SU6668. The concept was of an ATP mimic that would compete with ATP for binding to the catalytic site of receptor tyrosine kinases. This concept led to the invention of many small-molecule tyrosine kinase inhibitors, including Gleevec, Sutent, Tarceva and many others. Sunitinib adverse events are
Landmark clinical trial shows gene-targeted drug can treat prostate cancer [SEP] Ipilimumab // were controversial for their unconventional use of a control arm (as opposed to using a placebo or standard treatment). The study tested ipilimumab alone, ipilimumab with gp100, and the vaccine alone. Patients had a higher survival rate with ipilimumab alone, however it is not fully clear whether the vaccine caused toxicity, which would make the drug perform better by comparison. Ipilimumab gained FDA approval in early 2011. In 2008/09 Medarex performed a phase I/II dose escalation clinical trial of ipilimumab in metastatic hormone-refractory prostate cancer (HRPC). Some of the patients with advanced prostate cancer had their tumors drastically shrink, promoting
Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) is no more dangerous than the common cold, and it's being blown out of proportion to make the President of the United States look bad. [SEP] Coronavirus // 1960s from the nasal cavities of patients with the common cold. These viruses were subsequently named human coronavirus 229E and human coronavirus OC43. Two further members of this family have been identified (HCoV NL63 in 2004 and HKU1 in 2005) and they have been involved in more serious respiratory tract infections. Coronaviruses primarily infect the upper respiratory and gastrointestinal tract of mammals and birds. Six different currently known strains of coronaviruses infect humans. Coronaviruses are believed to cause a significant percentage of all common colds in human adults and children. Coronaviruses cause colds with major symptoms, e.g. fever, throat congestion
Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) is no more dangerous than the common cold, and it's being blown out of proportion to make the President of the United States look bad. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // coronavirus researcher at the Erasmus Medical Center (EMC) in Rotterdam, The Netherlands. The second laboratory-proven case was in London, confirmed by the UK Health Protection Agency (HPA). The HPA named the virus the London1_novel CoV 2012. On 8 November 2012, in an article published in the New England Journal of Medicine, Dr. Zaki and co-authors from the Erasmus Medical Center published more details, including a scientific name, Human Coronavirus-Erasmus Medical Center (HCoV-EMC), which was then used in scientific literature. In the article, they noted four respiratory human coronaviruses (HCoV) known to be endemic: 229E, OC43, NL63, and HKU1. In May
Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) is no more dangerous than the common cold, and it's being blown out of proportion to make the President of the United States look bad. [SEP] London1 novel CoV/2012 // virus nucleic acid fragment identified in the isolate from the Qatai-London patient is derived from a novel coronavirus that is distinct from all coronaviruses previously identified. London1 novel CoV/2012 London1_novel CoV/2012 is the name of the novel coronavirus isolated from a Qatari man in London in 2012 who was one of the first patients to come down with what has since been named Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus. The Qatari patient had traveled to Saudi Arabia from Qatar. He returned to Qatar, but when he fell ill, he traveled to London for treatment. The United Kingdom's Health Protection Agency (HPA)
Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) is no more dangerous than the common cold, and it's being blown out of proportion to make the President of the United States look bad. [SEP] Human coronavirus OC43 // 1950s. Genotype B and C date to the 1980s. Genotype B to the 1990s, and genotype C to the late 1990s to early 2000s. The recombinant genotype D strains were detected as early as 2004. Along with HCoV-229E, a species in the Alphacoronavirus genus, HCoV-OC43 are among the known viruses that cause the common cold. Both viruses can cause severe lower respiratory tract infections, including pneumonia in infants, the elderly, and immunocompromised individuals such as those undergoing chemotherapy and those with HIV-AIDS. Coronaviruses have a worldwide distribution, causing 10–15% of common cold cases. Infections show a seasonal pattern with most
Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) is no more dangerous than the common cold, and it's being blown out of proportion to make the President of the United States look bad. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // of unknown origin. Of the six, two died. All the cases were reported to the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC). After the September identification of a novel CoV strain, a retroactive analysis of the hospital workers was performed. Epidemiologists discovered the Jordan cases. Using stored laboratory samples for all six, it was found that samples from the two patients who had died tested positive for nCoV. On 24 April 2014, a 25-year-old male was found positive for the coronavirus. He had history of exposure to camels and had consumed camel milk. The Ministry of Health and Medical
Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) is no more dangerous than the common cold, and it's being blown out of proportion to make the President of the United States look bad. [SEP] Coronavirus // and adenoids, in humans primarily in the winter and early spring seasons. Coronaviruses can cause pneumonia, either direct viral pneumonia or a secondary bacterial pneumonia, and bronchitis, either direct viral bronchitis or a secondary bacterial bronchitis. The much publicized human coronavirus discovered in 2003, SARS-CoV which causes severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS), has a unique pathogenesis because it causes both upper and lower respiratory tract infections. The significance and economic impact of coronaviruses as causative agents of the common cold are hard to assess because, unlike rhinoviruses (another common cold virus), human coronaviruses are difficult to grow in the laboratory.
Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) is no more dangerous than the common cold, and it's being blown out of proportion to make the President of the United States look bad. [SEP] Human coronavirus 229E // HCoV-OC43, and HCoV-HKU1 and are globally distributed. However, the four viruses are detected in different parts of the world at different times of the year. Human coronavirus 229E Human coronavirus 229E is a single-stranded, positive-sense, RNA virus species in the genus "Alphacoronavirus" of the subfamily "Coronavirinae", in the family "Coronaviridae", of the order "Nidovirales". Along with Human coronavirus OC43, it is responsible for the common cold. HCoV-229E transmits via droplet-respiration and fomites. HCoV-229E is associated with a range of respiratory symptoms, ranging from the common cold to high-morbidity outcomes such as pneumonia and bronchiolitis. It is also among the Coronaviruses
Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) is no more dangerous than the common cold, and it's being blown out of proportion to make the President of the United States look bad. [SEP] Human coronavirus 229E // Human coronavirus 229E Human coronavirus 229E is a single-stranded, positive-sense, RNA virus species in the genus "Alphacoronavirus" of the subfamily "Coronavirinae", in the family "Coronaviridae", of the order "Nidovirales". Along with Human coronavirus OC43, it is responsible for the common cold. HCoV-229E transmits via droplet-respiration and fomites. HCoV-229E is associated with a range of respiratory symptoms, ranging from the common cold to high-morbidity outcomes such as pneumonia and bronchiolitis. It is also among the Coronaviruses most frequently codetected with other respiratory viruses, particularly with Human respiratory syncytial virus (HRSV). HCoV-229E is one of the four human coronaviruses which include HCoV-NL63,
Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) is no more dangerous than the common cold, and it's being blown out of proportion to make the President of the United States look bad. [SEP] London1 novel CoV/2012 // London1 novel CoV/2012 London1_novel CoV/2012 is the name of the novel coronavirus isolated from a Qatari man in London in 2012 who was one of the first patients to come down with what has since been named Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus. The Qatari patient had traveled to Saudi Arabia from Qatar. He returned to Qatar, but when he fell ill, he traveled to London for treatment. The United Kingdom's Health Protection Agency (HPA) named the virus. Phylogenetic analysis demonstrated that London1 is a betacoronavirus with a close relationship to Bat coronaviruses HKU4 and HKU5. It was found that the
Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) is no more dangerous than the common cold, and it's being blown out of proportion to make the President of the United States look bad. [SEP] Coronavirus // of a vaccine against the disease "since [the spike protein] appears to be recognized by the immune system of the host." Following the high-profile publicity of SARS outbreaks, there has been a renewed interest in coronaviruses among virologists. For many years, scientists knew about only two human coronaviruses (HCoV-229E and HCoV-OC43). The discovery of SARS-CoV added a third human coronavirus. By the end of 2004, three independent research labs reported the discovery of a fourth human coronavirus. It has been named NL63, NL, and the New Haven coronavirus by different research groups. The three labs are still arguing over which
Most U.S. doctors fail to discuss alcohol with patients: study. [SEP] Masculinity // and 65 are four times more likely to die from cardiovascular disease than women, and are more likely to be diagnosed with a terminal illness because of their reluctance to see a doctor. Reasons cited for not seeing a physician include fear, denial, embarrassment, a dislike of situations out of their control and the belief that visiting a doctor is not worth the time or cost. Studies of men in North America and Europe show that men who consume alcoholic drinks often do so in order to fulfill certain social expectations of manliness. While the causes of drinking and alcoholism
Most U.S. doctors fail to discuss alcohol with patients: study. [SEP] Disease theory of alcoholism // drinkers learning to consume alcohol in moderation. The publication of the study renewed controversy over how people suffering a disease which reputedly leads to uncontrollable drinking could manage to drink controllably. Subsequent studies also reported evidence of return to controlled drinking. Similarly, according to a 2002 National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism (NIAAA) study, about one of every six (18%) of alcohol dependent adults in the U.S. whose dependence began over one year previously had become "low-risk drinkers" (less than 14 drinks per week and 5 drinks per day for men, or less than 7 per week and 4
Most U.S. doctors fail to discuss alcohol with patients: study. [SEP] Alcohol and health // the Ulster Hospital in Northern Ireland with fall related injuries. They found that 113 of those patients admitted to that hospital during that had consumed alcohol recently and that the injury severity was higher for those that had consumed alcohol compared to those that hadn't. Another study showed that 21% of patients admitted to the Emergency Department of the Bristol Royal Infirmary had either direct or indirect alcohol related injuries. If these figures are extrapolated it shows that the estimated number of patients with alcohol related injuries are over 7000 during the year at this ED alone. In the United
Most U.S. doctors fail to discuss alcohol with patients: study. [SEP] Alcoholism // Estonia had the highest death rate from alcohol in Europe in 2015 at 8.8 per 100,000 population. In the United States, 30% of people admitted to hospital have a problem related to alcohol. Within the medical and scientific communities, there is a broad consensus regarding alcoholism as a disease state. For example, the American Medical Association considers alcohol a drug and states that "drug addiction is a chronic, relapsing brain disease characterized by compulsive drug seeking and use despite often devastating consequences. It results from a complex interplay of biological vulnerability, environmental exposure, and developmental factors (e.g., stage of brain
Most U.S. doctors fail to discuss alcohol with patients: study. [SEP] Disease theory of alcoholism // per day for women). This modern longitudinal study surveyed more than 43,000 individuals representative of the U.S. adult population, rather than focusing solely on those seeking or receiving treatment for alcohol dependence. "Twenty years after onset of alcohol dependence, about three-fourths of individuals are in full recovery; more than half of those who have fully recovered drink at low-risk levels without symptoms of alcohol dependence." However, many researchers have debated the results of the smaller studies. A 1994 followup of the original 7 cases studied by Davies suggested that he "had been substantially misled, and the paradox exists that a
Most U.S. doctors fail to discuss alcohol with patients: study. [SEP] Disease theory of alcoholism // theory followed a 1962 study by Dr. D. L. Davies. Davies' follow-up of 93 problem drinkers found that 7 of them were able to return to "controlled drinking" (less than 7 drinks per day for at least 7 years). Davies concluded that "the accepted view that no alcohol addict can ever again drink normally should be modified, although all patients should be advised to aim at total abstinence"; After the Davies study, several other researchers reported cases of problem drinkers returning to controlled drinking. In 1976, a major study commonly referred to as the RAND report, published evidence of problem
Most U.S. doctors fail to discuss alcohol with patients: study. [SEP] Disease theory of alcoholism // cannot be determined from these data. It is possible that belief in alcoholism as a loss-of-control disease predisposes clients to relapse, or that repeated relapses reinforce clients' beliefs in the disease model." One study found that only 25 percent of physicians believed that alcoholism is a disease. The majority believed alcoholism to be a social or psychological problem instead of a disease. A survey of physicians at an annual conference of the International Doctors in Alcoholics Anonymous reported that 80 percent believe that alcoholism is merely bad behavior instead of a disease. Thomas R. Hobbs says that "Based on my
Most U.S. doctors fail to discuss alcohol with patients: study. [SEP] Alcohol (drug) // to others. It is highly associated with automobile accidents, sexual assaults, and both violent and non-violent crime. About one-third of arrests in the United States involve alcohol abuse. Many emergency room visits also involve alcohol use. As many as 15% of employees show problematic alcohol-related behaviors in the workplace, such as drinking before going to work or even drinking on the job. Heavy drinking is associated with vulnerability to injury, marital discord, and domestic violence. Alcohol use is directly related to considerable morbidity and mortality, for instance due to overdose and alcohol-related health problems. A 2002 study found 41% of
Most U.S. doctors fail to discuss alcohol with patients: study. [SEP] Merrill Moore // He also conducted research on alcohol and addiction. In a 1937 article published in the "New England Journal of Medicine", he argued that alcoholism had become rampant in the United States, and he called for the establishment of special wards for alcoholics in hospitals. Two years later, in the same journal, he argued that the heavier an individual, the less likely they were to feel drunk. By 1943, in the Boston number of the "Medical Clinics of North America", he argued that adult neurosis and alcoholism could be prevented if parents ensured children matched the skills of their peers and
Most U.S. doctors fail to discuss alcohol with patients: study. [SEP] Alcoholics Anonymous // studies have suggested an association between AA attendance and increased abstinence or other positive outcomes, other studies have not. The Surgeon General of the United States 2016 Report on Alcohol, Drugs, and Health states "Well-supported scientific evidence demonstrates the effectiveness of twelve-step mutual aid groups focused on alcohol and twelve-step facilitation interventions." Many AA meetings take place in treatment facilities. Carrying the message of AA into hospitals was how the co-founders of AA first remained sober. They discovered great value of working with alcoholics who are still suffering, and that even if the alcoholic they were working with did not
Critics gear up for response to lease sale in Arctic refuge. [SEP] Arctic Refuge drilling controversy // of the Porcupine caribou. In their documentary "Being Caribou" the Porcupine herd was followed in its yearly migration by author and wildlife biologist Karsten Heuer and filmmaker Leanne Allison to provide a broader understanding of what is at stake if the oil drilling should happen, and educating the public. In 2014, President Barack Obama proposed declaring an additional 5 million acres of the refuge as a wilderness area, which would put a total of of the refuge permanently off-limits to drilling or other development, including the coastal plain where oil exploration has been sought. In 2017, the Republican-controlled House and
Critics gear up for response to lease sale in Arctic refuge. [SEP] Carlos Curbelo // I'm confident that we'll win — eventually." In December 2017, Curbelo and eleven other House Republicans signed a letter to Mitch McConnell urging the U.S. Senate "to pass a tax bill without oil-drilling concessions in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge." Curbelo voted in favor of the final bill, which "includes a provision, introduced by Sen. Lisa Murkowski (R-Alaska), that would require Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke to approve at least two lease sales for drilling — each covering no less than 400,000 acres — in the refuge's coastal plain area." In April 2018, Curbelo called for the resignation of Administrator of
Critics gear up for response to lease sale in Arctic refuge. [SEP] Arctic Refuge drilling controversy // and gas development. It also proposed to trade the mineral rights of in the refuge for surface rights to owned by corporations of six Alaska native groups, including Aleuts, Eskimos and Tlingits. The report said that the oil and gas potentials of the coastal plain were needed for the country's economy and national security. Conservationists said that oil development would unnecessarily threaten the existence of the Porcupine caribou by cutting off the herd from calving areas. They also expressed concerns that oil operations would erode the fragile ecological systems that support wildlife on the tundra of the Arctic plain. The
Critics gear up for response to lease sale in Arctic refuge. [SEP] Arctic National Wildlife Refuge // the Arctic's diverse wildlife species preside. The usage of section 1002 in ANWR depends on the amount of oil worldwide. There are two sides of this debate: support for drilling and the opposition of drilling. Most of the supporters for drilling are big oil companies and political campaigners who sought to go after the resources that could be found in the refuge. The oppositions of drilling include people who currently reside in Alaska and people who want to preserve the wildlife and land for future considerations. In 1956, Olaus and Mardy Murie led an expedition to the Brooks Range in
Critics gear up for response to lease sale in Arctic refuge. [SEP] Arctic Refuge drilling controversy // in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge because it would irreversibly damage a protected national wildlife refuge without creating sufficient oil supplies to meaningfully affect the global market price or have a discernible impact on U.S. energy security." Senator John McCain, while running for the 2008 Republican presidential nomination, said, "As far as ANWR is concerned, I don't want to drill in the Grand Canyon, and I don't want to drill in the Everglades. This is one of the most pristine and beautiful parts of the world." In 2008, the U.S. Department of Energy reported uncertainties about the USGS oil estimates
Critics gear up for response to lease sale in Arctic refuge. [SEP] Reindeer // The leasing of Teshekpuk Lake land to industry was protested by the Iñupiat and others who sent 300,000 letters to the US Secretary of the Interior and the ConocoPhillips CEO over the summer of 2006. On September 25, 2006, the U.S. District Court for the District of Alaska protected the wildlife habitat around the lake from an oil and gas lease sale. In October 2017, U. S. Secretary of the Interior, Ryan Zinke, announced that as of December 6, 2017, lands under the administration of the U.S. Bureau of Land Management will be up for bid on the "largest offering
Critics gear up for response to lease sale in Arctic refuge. [SEP] Arctic Refuge drilling controversy // Area were to be evaluated from surface geological studies and seismic exploration surveys. No exploratory drilling was allowed. Results of these studies and recommendations for future management of the Arctic Refuge coastal plain were to be prepared in a report to Congress. In 1985, Chevron drilled a test bore on a private tract inside the border of ANWR. The well was capped. The results are a closely held secret. In November 1986, a draft report by the United States Fish and Wildlife Service recommended that all of the coastal plain within the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge be opened for oil
Critics gear up for response to lease sale in Arctic refuge. [SEP] Arctic Refuge drilling controversy // legal and other actions necessary to "defend the community". The resolution also calls on all North Slope communities to oppose Shell owned offshore leases unrelated to the ANWR controversy until the company becomes more respectful of the people. Mayor Sonsalla says Shell has failed to work with the villagers on how the company would protect bowhead whales, which are part of Native culture, subsistence life, and diet. Moderate Republican House of Representatives member Carlos Curbelo and eleven others sent a letter to the Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, urging him to not include drilling in the December 2017 major tax
Critics gear up for response to lease sale in Arctic refuge. [SEP] Arctic Refuge drilling controversy // how best to protect the hundreds of millions of acres of Alaskan wilderness unaffected by the pipeline. On May 16, 1979, the United States House of Representatives approved a conservationist-backed bill that would have protected more than of Federal lands in Alaska, including the calving ground of the nation's largest caribou herd. Backed by President Jimmy Carter, and sponsored by Morris K. Udall and John B. Anderson, the bill would have prohibited all commercial activity in designated as wilderness areas. The U.S. Senate had opposed similar legislation in the past and filibusters were threatened. On December 2, 1980, Carter signed
Critics gear up for response to lease sale in Arctic refuge. [SEP] Arctic Refuge drilling controversy // contains . Although, only were thought to be within the proposed drilling region. "Environmentalists and most congressional Democrats have resisted drilling in the area because the required network of oil platforms, pipelines, roads and support facilities, not to mention the threat of foul spills, would play havoc on wildlife. The coastal plain, for example, is a calving home for some 129,000 caribou." The NRDC has said that drilling would not take place in a compact, space as proponents say, but would create "a spiderweb of industrial sprawl across the whole of the refuge's coastal plain, including drill sites, airports and
A video shows a piece of 5G equipment with "COV-19" inscribed on it. [SEP] 6V6 // CV509 – 6V6G CV510 – 6V6 CV511 – 6V6GT & 6V6GTY The British GPO also used their own VT (Valve - Thermionic) numbering system VT196 = CV509 = 6V6G – General Post Office (GPO) Swedish Military supplier Bofors, had tubes made by Standard Radiofabrik (SRF) at the Ulvsunda plant in Stockholm. 5S2D - Premium, ruggedized 6V6GT with triple micas, low loss micanol brown base. Other tubes cited as being equivalent 6P6S (6П6С in Cyrillic.) Also 6П2 - In the Soviet Union a version of the 6V6GT was produced since the late 1940s which appears to be a close copy of
A video shows a piece of 5G equipment with "COV-19" inscribed on it. [SEP] 5G // network launches. (Comprehensive list of 5G NR networks.) 3GPP have been studying mixed mode multicast and terrestrial broadcast based on equivalent of MBMS for 5G NR and a further development based on LTE's EnTV. 5G Automotive Association have been promoting the C-V2X communication technology that's based on 5G NR for communication between vehicles and communication between vehicles and infrastructures. 5G Alliance for Connected Industries and Automation - 5G-ACIA promotes 5G for factory automation and process industry. Mission-critical push-to-talk (MCPTT) and mission-critical video and data are expected to be furthered in 5G. 5G 5G is the fifth generation of cellular mobile
A video shows a piece of 5G equipment with "COV-19" inscribed on it. [SEP] Huawei // U.S. market as part of its future business plans, citing the government scrutiny as having impeded its business there. Three members of the Five Eyes international intelligence alliance—Australia, Canada, New Zealand and the US—have declared the use of Huawei telecommunications equipment, particularly in 5G networks, poses "significant security risks", while Canada is carrying out its own security review; only Britain is permitting the company to participate in the rollout of the new technology. In late November 2018, the New Zealand signals intelligence agency Government Communications Security Bureau blocked telecommunications company Spark from using Huawei equipment in its planned 5G upgrade,
A video shows a piece of 5G equipment with "COV-19" inscribed on it. [SEP] Vehicle-to-everything // wide area celluar network communication (V2N). In Release 15, 3GPP continued its C-V2X standardization to be based on 5G. Specifications are published in 2018 as Release 15 comes to completion. To indicate the underlying technology, the term 5G-V2X is often used in contrast to LTE-based V2X (LTE-V2X). Either case, C-V2X is the generic terminology that refers to the V2X technology using the cellular technology irrespective of the specific generation of technology. In Release 16, 3GPP further enhances the C-V2X functionality. The work is currently in progress. In this way, C-V2X is inherently future-proof by supporting migration path to 5G. Study
A video shows a piece of 5G equipment with "COV-19" inscribed on it. [SEP] International Mobile Equipment Identity // "AA-BBBBBB-CCCCCC-D", although it may not always be displayed this way. The IMEISV does not have the Luhn check digit but instead has two digits for the Software Version Number (SVN), making the format "AA-BBBBBB-CCCCCC-EE" Prior to 2002, the TAC was six digits long and was followed by a two-digit Final Assembly Code (FAC), which was a manufacturer-specific code indicating the location of the device's construction. From January 1, 2003 until April 1, 2004, the FAC for all phones was 00. After April 1, 2004, the Final Assembly Code ceased to exist and the Type Allocation Code increased to eight digits
A video shows a piece of 5G equipment with "COV-19" inscribed on it. [SEP] Luch 5A // 5A was built by JSC Information Satellite Systems using the Ekspress-1000A bus. It has 6 S and Ku band channels with repeaters manufactured by Thales Alenia Space and other equipment manufactured by Sumitomo. The Ku band antenna operates at up to 150 Mbit/s and the S band antenna at up to 5 Mbit/s. The satellite also relays COSPAS/SARSAT signals and Planet-S System data. The satellite is designed to relay data from the ISS, satellites in low earth orbit and rocket launch vehicles. Luch 5A is located at 167° E. Luch 5A was launched on 11 December 2011 with satellite Amos-5.
A video shows a piece of 5G equipment with "COV-19" inscribed on it. [SEP] 5th Heavy Weight Transport Company (CTGP) // bearing the inscription : « 5 COMPAGNIE TRANSPORT - LÉGION ETRANGERE »; in the center, a Silver Minaret (Fire Lighthouse Tower at origin, then would be found adjacent in numbers, to Mosques) () centered in a five branched golden Star. Heir to the traditions of the 6th Mounted Company of the 4 REI., the 5 CTGP has retaken the symbols (Star and Minaret). The insignia was created for Camerone 1966, by Captain Oui, Commandant of the company. 5th Heavy Weight Transport Company (CTGP) The 5th Heavy Weight Transport Company () was a heavy weight transport company of the French Foreign
A video shows a piece of 5G equipment with "COV-19" inscribed on it. [SEP] T-19 // of cohesion). For battlefield surveillance, the tank no longer used simple slots, known as “broneglaz”. Initially it was planned to use "stroboscopic" instruments of the type used on the tank made by E.Grote (TG), but bulletproof glass of the “Simplex- triplex” type, with easily removable cartridge clips, was used instead. The decision of the Revolutionary Military Council session of July 17 to 18, 1929, placed before the defense industry a complex problem: to create a new military vehicle in a very short time- the “T-19 basic tracked tank”. GKB OAT was tasked with its design that autumn. The end-of-development date
A video shows a piece of 5G equipment with "COV-19" inscribed on it. [SEP] LG Secret (KF750) // mechanical "Send", "End" and "Cancel" buttons, addressing a complaint that some users had with previous LG phones. Although the device is marketed as a fashion style mobile, its hardware is on par with many feature mobiles on the market at the time of launch. The phone was the world's slimmest 5.0-megapixel camera phone. It records video in VGA @ 30fps and QVGA @ 120fps and "time lapse videos". the QVGA videos are recorded in 120fps and then saved at 15fps. this enables slow motion videos. The videos are recorded with divx encoding which balances quality with file size. It comes
A video shows a piece of 5G equipment with "COV-19" inscribed on it. [SEP] P-19 radar // flying at low altitude and came to be associated with the S-125 "Neva" anti-aircraft system (NATO reporting name SA-3 "Goa"). The P-19 featured new electronics compared with the previous P-15 including a new magnetron transmitter. The P-19 is still in service today and was widely exported; many companies offer upgrade options to improve the performance and reliability of the radar and to replace out-dated components although the P-19 has been superseded by the newer Kasta series of radars. The P-19 shares many of the physical features of the previous P-15 radar, the P-19 is a high mobility radar and with
Gene therapy raises hope for a future AIDS cure [SEP] HIV/AIDS research // cells (GM-HSPC). Though this study does involve several early stage clinical trials that have demonstrated the safety and feasibility of this technique only for HIV-1, none have resulted in improvement of the disease state itself. Therefore, this strategy is intended to go alongside already existing treatment techniques such as drugs and vaccines. However, future technology regarding this approach of single treatment cell therapy could potentially replace current therapy altogether as a functional or sterilizing cure to HIV-1. An additional study involves the use of genetically engineered CD34+ hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells. Experimental long-term in vivo HIV gene therapy have
Gene therapy raises hope for a future AIDS cure [SEP] HIV/AIDS research // evidence that clinical protocols of HIV gene therapy require a selective enrichment of genetically targeted cells. Complementing efforts to control viral replication, immunotherapies that may assist in the recovery of the immune system have been explored in past and ongoing trials, including IL-2 and IL-7. The failure of vaccine candidates to protect against HIV infection and progression to AIDS has led to a renewed focus on the biological mechanisms responsible for HIV latency. A limited period of therapy combining anti-retrovirals with drugs targeting the latent reservoir may one day allow for total eradication of HIV infection. Researchers have discovered an
Gene therapy raises hope for a future AIDS cure [SEP] Gene therapy // 2009 in a trial with a genetically engineered virus with a rare mutation (CCR5 deficiency) known to protect against HIV with promising results. Clinical trials of gene therapy for sickle cell disease were started in 2014. There is a need for high quality randomised controlled trials assessing the risks and benefits involved with gene therapy for people with sickle cell disease. In February LentiGlobin BB305, a gene therapy treatment undergoing clinical trials for treatment of beta thalassemia gained FDA "breakthrough" status after several patients were able to forgo the frequent blood transfusions usually required to treat the disease. In March
Gene therapy raises hope for a future AIDS cure [SEP] Innate resistance to HIV // HIV. While antiretroviral therapy (ART) has slowed the progression of HIV among patients, gene therapy through stem cell research has progressed scientific resistance to HIV. One method of genetic modification is through the manipulation of hematopoietic stem cells, which replaces HIV genes with engineered particles that attach to chromosomes. Peptides are formed that prevent HIV from fusing to the host cells and therefore stops the infection from spreading. Another method used by the Kiem lab was the release of zinc finger nuclease (ZFN), which identifies specific sections of DNA to cause a break in the double helix. These ZFNs were
Gene therapy raises hope for a future AIDS cure [SEP] Gene therapy // vector and blood transfusions were not needed. Further clinical trials were planned. Bone marrow transplants are the only cure for thalassemia, but 75% of patients do not find a matching donor. Cancer immunogene therapy using modified antigene, antisense/triple helix approach was introduced in South America in 2010/11 in La Sabana University, Bogota (Ethical Committee 14 December 2010, no P-004-10). Considering the ethical aspect of gene diagnostic and gene therapy targeting IGF-I, the IGF-I expressing tumors i.e. lung and epidermis cancers were treated (Trojan et al. 2016). In 2007 and 2008, a man (Timothy Ray Brown) was cured of HIV by
Gene therapy raises hope for a future AIDS cure [SEP] HIV/AIDS research // suitable donors. In the past 7 years, scientists have been using different approaches of stem cell based gene therapy in an attempt to develop a cure as well as to propose an alternative to the conventional antiretroviral therapy (ART). Specifically, advances had been made with a cure to HIV. A cellular receptor, generally CCR5 or CXCR4 is required in order for HIV entry into CD4 cells. Cells of individuals homozygous for the CCR5 gene variant Δ32 (CCR5Δ32/Δ32) lack the CCR5 cell-surface expression, meaning that they are naturally resistant to infection with CCR5 tropic HIV strains (R5 HIV). One study done
Gene therapy raises hope for a future AIDS cure [SEP] HIV/AIDS research // man to have been cured of the virus. As of April 2013, two primary approaches are being pursued in the search for a HIV cure: The first is gene therapy that aims to develop a HIV-resistant immune system for patients, and the second is being led by Danish scientists, who are conducting clinical trials to strip the HIV from human DNA and have it destroyed permanently by the immune system. Two more cases with similarities to the Brown case have occurred since the 2007 discovery; however, they differ because the transplanted marrow has not been confirmed as mutated. The cases
Gene therapy raises hope for a future AIDS cure [SEP] Gene therapy // increased immune response to HIV antigens and other pathogens. This was the first evaluation of a lentiviral vector administered in a US human clinical trial. In May researchers announced the first gene therapy trial for inherited retinal disease. The first operation was carried out on a 23-year-old British male, Robert Johnson, in early 2007. Leber's congenital amaurosis is an inherited blinding disease caused by mutations in the RPE65 gene. The results of a small clinical trial in children were published in April. Delivery of recombinant adeno-associated virus (AAV) carrying RPE65 yielded positive results. In May two more groups reported positive
Gene therapy raises hope for a future AIDS cure [SEP] 2002 French gene therapy trials // stemming from the experiment. The mix-bag results of the French trial helped spark a worldwide debate about the efficacy of retroviral vector gene therapy, and gene therapy as a whole. More specifically, the trial led to the discussion as to whether or not the known risks of gene therapy, such as the possibility of subsequent cancer development, and the potential benefits of gene manipulation exist in a way that would justify the continued use of these trials to correct life-threatening illnesses. 2002 French gene therapy trials The 2002 French gene therapy trials were experimental gene therapy trials performed on children
Gene therapy raises hope for a future AIDS cure [SEP] Gene therapy // cells. In November researchers reported on the use of VRX496, a gene-based immunotherapy for the treatment of HIV that uses a lentiviral vector to deliver an antisense gene against the HIV envelope. In a phase I clinical trial, five subjects with chronic HIV infection who had failed to respond to at least two antiretroviral regimens were treated. A single intravenous infusion of autologous CD4 T cells genetically modified with VRX496 was well tolerated. All patients had stable or decreased viral load; four of the five patients had stable or increased CD4 T cell counts. All five patients had stable or
Wichita man to bike 1,000 miles to honor daughter’s death. [SEP] Dunwich Dynamo // bike. The 2006 ride had 700 participants but was marred by the death of a 38-year-old participant, Andrew Rawling, in a head-on collision with a Ford Transit van in North Weald Bassett. The organisers suggested that the 2007 ride could take the form of a memorial event, but Rawling's family requested that it continue as normal without any dedication, as they did not wish the ride he had enjoyed to become a campaign or protest. In 2018, 39-year old Dominic Turner collapsed and died. Turner was a keen cyclist and that helped him to help combat the encroaching effects of
Wichita man to bike 1,000 miles to honor daughter’s death. [SEP] Gloria Carter Spann // Plains, Georgia where her parents and brother, Billy Carter, are also buried. Gloria Carter Spann Gloria Carter Spann (October 22, 1926 – March 5, 1990) was noted as one of the first women inducted into Harley-Davidson’s 100,000 Mile Club, was named Most Outstanding Female Motorcyclist in 1978 and worked as an activist for motorcycle rights. Spann was a sister of former President Jimmy Carter. Gloria Carter was the second of four children, and the first daughter born to James Earl Carter, Sr. (1894–1953) and Lillian Gordy Carter (1898–1983) and was 24 months younger than her brother, Jimmy. When Jimmy was
Wichita man to bike 1,000 miles to honor daughter’s death. [SEP] Freddie Hoffman // mileage logs. He has ridden across the United States and has visited every one of the contiguous 48 states and been honored by more than 30 state governors. Every Spring Hoffman calls on his friends and supporters, now numbering in the hundreds, to get pledges to the Leukemia and Lymphoma Foundation for his upcoming ride that summer. Hoffman's mother died of leukemia in 1986. In addition to naming his bicycles "Ruth E." after her, he has focused on raising money in her memory to support leukemia research. He is a part-time janitor at a church in New Jersey. Freddie Hoffman
Wichita man to bike 1,000 miles to honor daughter’s death. [SEP] Gloria Carter Spann // in Americus, Georgia. Spann was noted as one of the first women inducted Harley Davidson’s 100,000 Mile Club, was named Most Outstanding Female Motorcyclist in 1978 and worked as an activist for motorcycle rights. During their years as motorcyclists, Gloria and her husband became "den mother" and father to the younger riders. The Spanns planted a large garden for the bikers each year and canned the vegetables to serve as they often had unexpected guests. Their farmhouse was arranged for multiple cots or sleeping bags. Walter constructed a four-hole outhouse to accommodate bikers who were cruising through the South or
Wichita man to bike 1,000 miles to honor daughter’s death. [SEP] Russell Allen (cyclist) // Widowed at the turn of the century, Allen remained athletically active, regularly participating in 50-60 mile rides into his 80s. In 2005 he participated in the Los Angeles Marathon bike ride. In 2006 he attended the funeral of John Sinibaldi, a teammate at the 1932 Summer Olympics. In his spare time, he enjoyed playing Texas hold 'em. Until at least 2006 he went bungee jumping yearly with his daughter in New Zealand and, in January of that year, he spent three weeks traveling the Middle East. From Sinibaldi's death until his own he was the oldest living American Olympic cyclist.
Wichita man to bike 1,000 miles to honor daughter’s death. [SEP] Charles Holland (cyclist) // victory, breaking age records at 25, 50 and 100 miles and for 12 hours. His 100-mile time beat the age standard by one-and-a-half hours. He died in December 1989 and is buried in the family grave at Aldridge. Holland's daughters, Nina and Frances, say they grew up seeing their father's cups around the houses but had little idea of their significance. Frances said: How famous our dad had been was brought home to us in 1962; I was 11 years old when we went with him to the Royal Albert Hall (British Best All-Rounder dinner and awards) where he was
Wichita man to bike 1,000 miles to honor daughter’s death. [SEP] Paul Pelland // story and encouraging others to continue following their passions regardless of what obstacles are in their path. On September 29, 2012, Pelland, sponsored by National Powersports, set a world record by riding 1,000 miles in under 24 hours on 100 different motorcycles. This was his first fundraiser for the National MS Society. Pelland said he will continue to ride until he meets his one million mile goal. He calls this "Longhaulpaul's Endless Road Tour", and is to raise funds for Multiple Sclerosis. In May 2014, Pelland rode a Piaggio scooter from Boston to Chicago in 16.5 hours, wearing a blue
Wichita man to bike 1,000 miles to honor daughter’s death. [SEP] Lael Wilcox // country. She was both the youngest rider and the only woman. She led the race by 25 miles the first day, and although she did not win the race, she was firmly focused on endurance racing. In 2016, Wilcox participated in the 4,400 mile Trans Am Bike Race that crosses the United States from west to east. As a small woman dressed in non-cycling clothes and with very little road-racing experience, she was not expected to compete, much less win. She averaged 235 miles per day for 18 days, averaging less than 5 hours of sleep per night. On the
Wichita man to bike 1,000 miles to honor daughter’s death. [SEP] Mary Jane Reoch // manslaughter. In 1994, Reoch was posthumously inducted into the United States Bicycling Hall of Fame. Fuji Bikes established the annual Miji Reoch Award for "the best young female rider under the age of 23", which includes a $1,000 cash prize. Mary Jane Reoch Mary Jane Reoch (January 2, 1945 – September 11, 1993) was an American cyclist. She won 11 national championships during her cycling career and afterwards worked as a cycling coach. She was killed in a road accident while training a client in 1993. She was posthumously inducted into the United States Bicycling Hall of Fame in 1994.
Wichita man to bike 1,000 miles to honor daughter’s death. [SEP] RAGBRAI // ride was the first to incorporate a "Mile of Silence" in memory of cyclists who were injured or killed while doing a ride. Juskiewicz stated, "We are all saddened by the losses of cyclists throughout the country. RAGBRAIers have lost family members, friends and teammates who were training for or have enjoyed RAGBRAI in past years." The national Ride of Silence organization and the Iowa Bicycle Coalition joined RAGBRAI in organizing the mile. On this ride, the mile occurred along the opening day ride from Glenwood to Shenandoah, on the way from Malvern to Tabor on Noyes Avenue (County Road
London's Muslim Mayor Sadiq Khan banned images of "sexy" women because they're offensive to Islam. [SEP] Islamophobia in the United Kingdom // people who believed the case represented a government overreach with regards to counterterrorism stop-and-search powers and profiling of Muslims. Rabbani released a statement on September 26 saying he would file for an appeal. Some raised concerns over the comments made about then candidate for mayor, Sadiq Khan during the 2016 London mayoral election which attempted to link Khan to Islamist extremists. Public opinion polling at the time showed that 31% of Londoners were "uncomfortable" with the prospect of a Muslim mayor. The Vote Leave campaign during leading up to the Brexit vote was also criticized as frequently portraying Muslim immigrants
London's Muslim Mayor Sadiq Khan banned images of "sexy" women because they're offensive to Islam. [SEP] Shaun Bailey // apologised for "any offence caused" and said that she was just repeating what others had said. Bailey has drawn criticism for retweeting a post which referred to London Mayor Sadiq Khan as the "mad mullah of Londonistan". The tweet, which has since been deleted, was shared by Bailey in 2017. When questioned about the matter by "The Independent", Bailey’s spokesperson insisted that there is "no way" he would have the seen the tweet’s potentially Islamophobic caption, as he would have needed to click on it to see the full text. In October 2018, Bailey was accused of Islamophobia and Hinduphobia
London's Muslim Mayor Sadiq Khan banned images of "sexy" women because they're offensive to Islam. [SEP] Paul Golding // on Remembrance Sunday wearing women's underwear on his head. In May 2015, Golding threatened to bury a pig at the site of proposed mosque in Dudley, mistakenly believing this would contaminate the site and render it unsuitable. At the Britain First Annual Conference in November 2015, Golding and his deputy Jayda Fransen led the meeting which agreed a number of policies including banning the media from using the word 'racism' and abolishing the BBC. He stood as a candidate in the London mayoral election in 2016. He came eighth with 31,372 votes (1.2% of those cast) while Labour's Sadiq Khan
London's Muslim Mayor Sadiq Khan banned images of "sexy" women because they're offensive to Islam. [SEP] Sadiq Khan // to become mayor of a major Western capital. International press sources often focused on his religious identity, with many right-wing American media outlets reacting with horror at his election. The far right party Britain First issued a press statement declaring Khan a Muslim "occupier" engaged in entryism and threatened to target where he "lives, works and prays" with direct action protest. Khan was officially sworn in as Mayor in a multi-faith ceremony held in Southwark Cathedral the following day. His first act as mayor was his appearance at a Holocaust memorial ceremony in a rugby stadium in North London, although
London's Muslim Mayor Sadiq Khan banned images of "sexy" women because they're offensive to Islam. [SEP] Sadiq Khan // Muslim". He has expressed the view that "too often the people who are 'representing' the Islamic faith aren't representative, they're angry men with beards. And that is not what Islam is about." Khan married Saadiya Ahmed, a fellow solicitor, in 1994. They have two daughters, both raised in the Islamic faith. Sadiq Khan Sadiq Aman Khan (; born 8 October 1970) is a British politician serving as Mayor of London since 2016. He was the Member of Parliament (MP) for Tooting from 2005 to 2016. A member of the Labour Party in London, he is on the party's soft left
London's Muslim Mayor Sadiq Khan banned images of "sexy" women because they're offensive to Islam. [SEP] Islamophobia in the United Kingdom // was granted a UK visa. In 2018, The Muslim Council of Britain wrote to the Conservative Party calling for an urgent inquiry following a number of allegations of Islamophobia. A Conservative councillor Stephen Ardley had been suspended after he allegedly posted Islamophobic comments about the Mayor of London, Sadiq Khan. Ardley had said it was “unbelievable” that a Muslim had been elected and went on to describe those who voted for him as “blind”. The need for a formal inquiry into Islamophobia in the Conservative Party was described by former Tory cabinet minister Sayeeda Warsi as being “long overdue”. The
London's Muslim Mayor Sadiq Khan banned images of "sexy" women because they're offensive to Islam. [SEP] Conservative Party (UK) // response to recent complaints and added that MP Zac Goldsmith should receive "mandatory diversity training" for alleged Islamophobia in his failed 2016 London mayoral campaign against Sadiq Khan. In August 2018, following comments made by Boris Johnson regarding the burqa/niqab, the MCB called the comments "particularly regrettable in this current climate" and reiterated its calls for an inquiry, accusing Johnson of "pandering to the far-right". In October 2018, recently selected London Mayoral candidate Shaun Bailey was accused of Islamophobia and Hinduphobia after it was reported that had written a pamphlet, entitled "No Man’s Land", for the Centre for Policy Studies.
London's Muslim Mayor Sadiq Khan banned images of "sexy" women because they're offensive to Islam. [SEP] Sana Khan // She has done an advertisement for Xbox 360 video game console. In March 2007, Khan's TV commercial for the men's underwear brand, Amul Macho, showed her provocatively scrubbing and washing some underwear, simulating an orgasm. It created a strong controversy and was banned by the Indian government on the grounds of sexual profanity. Khan responded in an interview, "Forget about the ban and people taking out "morchas" (protests) against me and burning my posters in Bombay (Mumbai). At the end of it people from the creative field have loved it." The company re-hired Khan, shot a sequel to that commercial
London's Muslim Mayor Sadiq Khan banned images of "sexy" women because they're offensive to Islam. [SEP] Sadiq Khan // sentiment. Labour accused Goldsmith's campaign of using rhetoric that was a "dog-whistle" to Islamophobia, while the Conservatives responded that it was "utterly predictable that Labour label their opponents as racists", citing the fact that during the 2008 mayoral campaign, the party had also accused Johnson of employing racist rhetoric. Goldsmith claimed that his references to Khan's "radical" views referred to connections with Corbyn rather than to any connection with Islamic extremism, adding that Khan was playing "the race card". He is London's first ethnic minority mayor. Various press sources noted that Khan's election made him the first actively affiliated Muslim
London's Muslim Mayor Sadiq Khan banned images of "sexy" women because they're offensive to Islam. [SEP] Caroline Criado-Perez // the statues in the UK", she wrote in the "New Statesman". "But we do not live in a fair world. And I'm realistic about the pace of change". Her open letter to the newly elected London Mayor Sadiq Khan, published by "The Daily Telegraph" the following May, was signed by a number of prominent women. Khan soon indicated his agreement to such a development, but did not at that stage commit to the location she wished, Parliament Square. A petition signed by 74,000 people was presented by Criado-Perez in June at an event in the Speaker’s House State Rooms hosted
I am every year the No.1 pick of all of the law enforcement agencies within Texas. [SEP] Texas A&M Engineering Extension Service // Law Enforcement & Security Training (LAW), and Knowledge Engineering (KE). It maintains an office in Galveston, and has training facilities in Abilene, Arlington, Corpus Christi, Houston, and San Antonio. In 1993, the agency had an annual operating budget of $38 million and conducted some 5,700 training classes attended by 120,000 students. By 2013, its budget had grown to $76.4 million, and had reached some 183,750 students through over 2.84 million contact hours. The agency's current director is Gary F. Sera, who became the director in December 2007 after serving as the agency's interim director for nine months. Serving under the
I am every year the No.1 pick of all of the law enforcement agencies within Texas. [SEP] Texas Commission on Law Enforcement // Legislature regarding related matters. Its nine members are appointed by the Governor and confirmed by the Texas Senate, to serve without pay for staggered, six-year terms. Three members must be sheriffs, constables, or chiefs of police. Three other members must be TCOLE licensees for at least five years (two of which must hold non-supervisory, peace officer positions). The last three members are chosen from the general population. The Board employs an Executive Director to lead the day-to-day operations of the agency. TCOLE is divided into the following divisions: The impetus for the creation of TCLEOSE in 1965 was to improve
I am every year the No.1 pick of all of the law enforcement agencies within Texas. [SEP] Racial profiling // agencies in the state to begin collecting certain data in connection to traffic or pedestrian stops beginning on January 1, 2002. Based on that data, the law mandated law enforcement agencies to submit a report to the law enforcement agencies' governing body beginning March 1, 2003 and each year thereafter no later than March 1. The law is found in the Texas Code of Criminal Procedure beginning with Article 2.131. Additionally, on January 1, 2011, all law enforcement agencies began submitting annual reports to the Texas State Law Enforcement Officers Standards and Education Commission. The submitted reports can be accessed
I am every year the No.1 pick of all of the law enforcement agencies within Texas. [SEP] Texas Commission on Law Enforcement // Texas Commission on Law Enforcement The Texas Commission on Law Enforcement or TCOLE, serves as the regulatory agency for all peace officers in Texas, which includes sheriffs and their deputies, constables and their deputies, police officers, marshals, troopers, Texas Rangers, enforcement agents of the Alcoholic Beverage Commission, investigators of the Attorney General, and game wardens. County jailers and public security officers are also regulated by TCOLE. With the passage of Senate Bill 686 in the 83rd Legislative Session, the commission's name was changed from "Texas Commission on Law Enforcement Officers Standards and Education" to "Texas Commission on Law Enforcement" on
I am every year the No.1 pick of all of the law enforcement agencies within Texas. [SEP] Texas Commission on Law Enforcement // Texas Peace Officers' Memorial. TCLEOSE also provides Texas flags to the next of kin of deceased peace officers. Texas Commission on Law Enforcement The Texas Commission on Law Enforcement or TCOLE, serves as the regulatory agency for all peace officers in Texas, which includes sheriffs and their deputies, constables and their deputies, police officers, marshals, troopers, Texas Rangers, enforcement agents of the Alcoholic Beverage Commission, investigators of the Attorney General, and game wardens. County jailers and public security officers are also regulated by TCOLE. With the passage of Senate Bill 686 in the 83rd Legislative Session, the commission's name was
I am every year the No.1 pick of all of the law enforcement agencies within Texas. [SEP] Kaufman County murders // commissioned with the District Attorney's office. A large manhunt was conducted by several law enforcement agencies including the Kaufman Police Department, the Kaufman County Sheriff, several Kaufman County Constable's Offices, the Texas Department of Public Safety, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, and the Drug Enforcement Administration. During the course of the investigation, a number of leads were followed, and news of the investigation captured headlines across the nation. Most hypotheses involved allegations that the Aryan Brotherhood, a prison gang, had been responsible for the murder. On March 30, 2013, the bodies of
I am every year the No.1 pick of all of the law enforcement agencies within Texas. [SEP] Texas Department of Public Safety // handgun licenses. In 2009, the Department of Public Safety created the Criminal Investigations Division (CID) as part of a major restructuring of the department. The CID consists of 700 members, including 573 commissioned officers and 129 civilian support personnel. The CID Assistant Director's Office consists of the assistant director, deputy assistant director, an administrative major, and four civilian support personnel. The CID is divided into four different sections, which are specialized by function: The CID sections work together to prevent, suppress, and solve crime in cooperation with city, county, state, and federal law enforcement agencies. Multi-jurisdictional violations typically investigated by
I am every year the No.1 pick of all of the law enforcement agencies within Texas. [SEP] Texas Department of Public Safety // much responsibility to the Rangers, who were already overworked. The report also was negative toward Texas utilizing the National Guard for law enforcement along the border. Recommendations were made to accumulate the necessary finances to create a state law enforcement agency. Four bureaus, Administration, State Police, Rangers, and Fire Prevention were suggested to be created with the implementation of the new force. Not completely satisfied with the report, the Texas Senate created a committee to conduct its own survey of the State’s law enforcement. As a result of the committee findings, on January 24, 1935 Senate Bill 146 was introduced.
I am every year the No.1 pick of all of the law enforcement agencies within Texas. [SEP] Texas constable // (Greater Houston area), there are over 1400 patrol deputies. Additionally, 15% handled criminal investigations, i.e. they are detectives and investigators. Also, the Texas Commission on Law Enforcement (TCOLE) the regulatory agency for all peace officers in Texas (sheriffs, constables, security police, police officers and marshals) and the Bureau of Justice Statistics of the Department of Justice considers the Texas constable to be a unique peace officer position. Texas constable The Texas constable is provided for in the Texas Constitution of 1876 (Article 5, Section 18), which calls for the election of a constable in each Texas precinct of a county,
I am every year the No.1 pick of all of the law enforcement agencies within Texas. [SEP] McKinney, Texas // Police Chief's Association Foundation (TPCAF) Recognized Agency, making it only the third agency in Texas to receive both state and national accreditation. Notable recent incidents in the department's history include the high-profile investigation of a 2004 quadruple homicide that claimed the lives of two adults and two high school football players, a 2010 attack on the police department headquarters by a gunman who fired over 100 rifle rounds at the building and employees after attempting to detonate a truck and trailer full of explosives, and protests and media attention in 2015 after a video was released showing an officer pinning
A Facebook post is correct in saying N95 masks, surgical masks, and cloth masks can be dangerous and/or ineffective in protecting against the spread of COVID-19 based on CDC and U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) guidelines. [SEP] Surgical mask // masks worn by members of the surgical team would reduce the risk of wound infections after clean surgical procedures. Cotton and gauze masks do not serve as surgical masks as they do not offer adequate filtration of microbes. Evidence supports the effectiveness of surgical masks in reducing the risk of infection among other healthcare workers and in the community. In community settings, facemasks must be coupled with other measures such as avoiding close contact and maintaining good hand hygiene to reduce the risk of getting influenza according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in its guidance regarding the
A Facebook post is correct in saying N95 masks, surgical masks, and cloth masks can be dangerous and/or ineffective in protecting against the spread of COVID-19 based on CDC and U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) guidelines. [SEP] Surgical mask // 2009 swine flu outbreak. For healthcare workers, safety guidelines recommend the wearing of a face-fit tested respirator mask conforming to United States standard NIOSH N95 or European standard EN 149 FFP3 in the vicinity of pandemic-flu patients, to reduce the exposure of the wearer to potentially infectious aerosols and airborne liquid droplets. The U.S Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) provides information on manufacturers' products, and the importance of correct fitting of such masks (respirators). A printable factsheet has been designed for issue to those unaccustomed to respirator use. Surgical masks are popularly worn by the general public in
A Facebook post is correct in saying N95 masks, surgical masks, and cloth masks can be dangerous and/or ineffective in protecting against the spread of COVID-19 based on CDC and U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) guidelines. [SEP] Surgical mask // bacteria or virus particles and are less effective than respirators, which are designed for this purpose. Simple surgical masks protect wearers from being splashed in the mouth with body fluids, and prevent transmission of body fluids from the wearer to others, e.g. the patient. They also remind wearers not to touch their mouth or nose, which could otherwise transfer viruses and bacteria after having touched a contaminated surface (fomite). They can also reduce the spread of infectious liquid droplets (carrying bacteria or viruses) that are created when the wearer coughs or sneezes. There is no clear evidence that disposable face
A Facebook post is correct in saying N95 masks, surgical masks, and cloth masks can be dangerous and/or ineffective in protecting against the spread of COVID-19 based on CDC and U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) guidelines. [SEP] Surgical mask // Surgical mask A surgical mask, also known as a procedure mask, is intended to be worn by health professionals during surgery and during nursing to catch the bacteria shed in liquid droplets and aerosols from the wearer's mouth and nose. They are not designed to protect the wearer from inhaling airborne bacteria or virus particles and are less effective than respirators, such as N95 or NIOSH masks, which provide better protection due to their material, shape and tight seal. Surgical masks are popularly worn by the general public in East Asian countries to reduce the chance of spreading airborne diseases.
A Facebook post is correct in saying N95 masks, surgical masks, and cloth masks can be dangerous and/or ineffective in protecting against the spread of COVID-19 based on CDC and U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) guidelines. [SEP] 2002–2003 SARS outbreak among healthcare workers // and fluid from escaping into the air—keeping both a patient and a HCW's bacteria and fluid to themselves. Less intentionally but also important, these masks discourage patients and HCWs from putting their fingers or hands in contact with the nose and mouth, which could usually allow bacteria to spread from the hand to these areas. Contrary to popular belief, some types of masks do little to prevent fluid and bacteria from coming in contact with the wearer of the mask, but they can still help prevent airborne infection. Therefore, it is important that both the patient and the HCW wear
A Facebook post is correct in saying N95 masks, surgical masks, and cloth masks can be dangerous and/or ineffective in protecting against the spread of COVID-19 based on CDC and U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) guidelines. [SEP] Scrubs (clothing) // controversy within the profession. With the "Spanish flu" pandemic of 1918 and the growing medical interest in Lister's antiseptic theory, some surgeons began wearing cotton gauze masks in surgery; however, this was not to protect the patient from intra-operative infection, but to protect the surgeon from the patient's diseases. Around the same time, operating theatre staff began wearing heavy rubber gloves to protect their hands from the solutions used to clean the room and equipment, a practice surgeons grudgingly adopted. By the 1940s, advances in surgical antisepsis (now called aseptic technique) and the science of wound infection led to the
A Facebook post is correct in saying N95 masks, surgical masks, and cloth masks can be dangerous and/or ineffective in protecting against the spread of COVID-19 based on CDC and U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) guidelines. [SEP] Health and safety hazards of nanomaterials // they do not protect against unbound dry materials. Woven cotton lab coats are not recommended for nanomaterials, as they can become contaminated with nanomaterials and release them later. PPE should be donned and removed in a changing room to prevent contamination of outside areas. Respirators are another form of PPE. Respirator filters with a NIOSH air filtration rating of N95 or P100 have been shown to be effective at capturing nanoparticles, although leakage between the respirator seal and the skin may be more significant, especially with half-mask respirators. Surgical masks are not effective against nanomaterials. Smaller nanoparticles of size 4–20
A Facebook post is correct in saying N95 masks, surgical masks, and cloth masks can be dangerous and/or ineffective in protecting against the spread of COVID-19 based on CDC and U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) guidelines. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic in the United Kingdom // that patient to surgery staff and other patients. I expect the Department of Health will issue guidance on use of face-masks if we move into a pandemic phase." Masks may not protect the wearer from inhalation of the virus, but might protect other people from picking up the virus from the wearer. Professor John Oxford, a virologist at leading London hospital, The Barts and the London, said: "Really, there is very little evidence that masks actually offer much protection against flu." It was reported that the UK government was urgently seeking to acquire more face-masks. The advice given by authorities
A Facebook post is correct in saying N95 masks, surgical masks, and cloth masks can be dangerous and/or ineffective in protecting against the spread of COVID-19 based on CDC and U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) guidelines. [SEP] 2002–2003 SARS outbreak among healthcare workers // 10 days before getting the disease. One large guideline for HCWs in Toronto hospitals was the use of sufficient and protective equipment to avoid transmission of the disease. The most widely suggested and used pieces of equipment were masks, gowns, gloves, and eye protection. While these pieces of equipment were used by most HCWs, they were not always used—if at all—by everyone, allowing SARS transmission to take place more easily. Surgical masks were suggested to be used by both HCWs and patients. This is because the specifically recommended type of masks do a good job of preventing one's own bacteria
A Facebook post is correct in saying N95 masks, surgical masks, and cloth masks can be dangerous and/or ineffective in protecting against the spread of COVID-19 based on CDC and U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) guidelines. [SEP] Surgical mask // A surgical mask, or procedure mask, is intended to be worn by health professionals during surgery and certain health care procedures to catch microorganisms shed in liquid droplets and aerosols from the wearer's mouth and nose. Its first recorded use was by the French surgeon Paul Berger during an 1897 operation in Paris. Modern surgical masks are made from paper or other non-woven material and should be discarded after each use. A surgical mask is not to be confused with a respirator and is not certified as such. Surgical masks are not designed to protect the wearer from inhaling airborne
US Sen. Reed wants to shorten the suicide prevention hotline. [SEP] Public Facilities Privacy & Security Act // Fisher, Paul Luebke, Joe Sam Queen, Evelyn Terry, Ken Waddell, Joyce Waddell, Angela Bryant, Joel D. M. Ford, and Jane W. Smith were excused absent. The independent representative Paul Tine, a member of the Republican caucus, voted against the bill. Supporters of House Bill 2 said the Charlotte ordinance was sloppily written and overreaching, and that in their view its wording essentially did away with single-sex bathrooms. Representative Dan Bishop, the bill's sponsor, cited this as grounds for the state to override local ordinances. Call volume to the Trans Lifeline transgender suicide-prevention hotline doubled after the passage of the bill.
US Sen. Reed wants to shorten the suicide prevention hotline. [SEP] Greg Reed // long-term care under a capitated system. Alabama Medicaid estimates it will save taxpayers $1.5 billion over the first ten years. Greg Reed Greg Reed (born June 5, 1965) is a Republican member of the Alabama Senate, representing the 5th District since 2010. He defeated Democrat Brett Wadsworth in the 2010 midterm elections to replace Charles Bishop in the 5th District. Reed was named Chairman of the Alabama Senate Health Committee for the 2011 quadrennium. During his tenure, he sponsored and passed Medicaid reform legislation that created Regional Care Organizations (RCOs). RCOs are self-sustaining managed care organization that receive a capitated
US Sen. Reed wants to shorten the suicide prevention hotline. [SEP] Jack Reed (Rhode Island politician) // limiting American oil use and expanding alternative energy. He opposes Arctic National Wildlife Refuge drilling and federal subsidies for oil exploration, while favoring a 40 percent reduction in oil use by 2025 and funding for hydrogen automobiles. Reed has voted to end discussions on Corporate Average Fuel Economy standards. He has also been an outspoken proponent of stronger restrictions of mercury use, as well as an end to commercial whaling. Reed has voted against limiting lawsuits on gun manufacturers and has favored expanding gun control. He voted against loosening background checks at gun shows. Although he voted for the 1996
US Sen. Reed wants to shorten the suicide prevention hotline. [SEP] Suicide Prevention Hotline // package includes a pill bottle, which contains a personal, but brief, message, written by Bethancourt himself. Suicide Prevention Hotline Suicide Prevention Hotline EP is an official extended play release from Alaska in Winter. It debuted 31 May 2011 through the band's Blogspot account, and a note published on its Facebook page. According to frontman Brandon Bethancourt, although the extended play is available merely on twenty micro-cassettes through his BigCartel page as an exclusive pre-release, the extended play will formally be released in "CD and mp3 form soon." The limited-edition micro-cassette format is designed for usage in telephone answering machines lest
US Sen. Reed wants to shorten the suicide prevention hotline. [SEP] Chesley Sullenberger // became a suicide prevention activist, having promoted National Suicide Prevention Week and National Suicide Prevention Lifeline. In October 2009, it was reported that the Republican Party had approached Sullenberger about running against Democratic U.S. Representative Jerry McNerney of California's 11th congressional district in the 2010 elections. Sullenberger's publicist said that Sullenberger had no desire to run for any public office. In late October 2018, Sullenberger entered the political fray of the midterm election with an op-ed in "The Washington Post" calling on Americans to vote "for leaders who are committed to the values that will unite and protect us", who
US Sen. Reed wants to shorten the suicide prevention hotline. [SEP] The Kristin Brooks Hope Center // result of post partum depression or psychosis. Upon learning there was no such organization in 1998 he decided donate it to an organization that ran a national suicide hotline for people in crisis. Upon learning that in 1998 there was no national suicide hotline linking the more than 800 community based suicide crisis hotlines he founded the Kristin Brooks Hope Center and began linking those community crisis hotlines through 1-888-SUICIDE(784-2433). 1-888-SUICIDE and1-800-SUICIDE (784-2433) were both part of the National Hopeline Network from its activation September 16, 1998 until the FCC temporarily reassigned it in January 2006. The US Surgeon General
US Sen. Reed wants to shorten the suicide prevention hotline. [SEP] American Foundation for Suicide Prevention // Dunkerly was removed from the board. The AFSP excludes the Brady Campaign from donating or participating. Similar accounts of gun safety groups have been reported in Wisconsin by Khary Penebaker, San Diego by Wendy Wheatcroft, and in Maine by Judi Richardson. American Foundation for Suicide Prevention The American Foundation for Suicide Prevention (AFSP) is a voluntary health organization established in 1987. It funds research, runs educational programs, advocates for public policies in mental health and suicide prevention, and supports survivors of suicide loss. It is headquartered in New York, with an office in Washington, D.C. AFSP funds several programs to
US Sen. Reed wants to shorten the suicide prevention hotline. [SEP] Tom Reed (politician) // a permanent measure because "doing it on a temporary basis... is part of the problem. We need to make this sound policy permanent in the tax code and I'm optimistic we'll get it to the finish and allow people to take advantage of the tax deduction that would encourage them to use the food rather than put it in a landfill." On May 4, 2017, Reed voted in favor of repealing the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (Obamacare) and pass the American Health Care Act. In the House, Reed votes in line with President Donald Trump's position about 96.6%
US Sen. Reed wants to shorten the suicide prevention hotline. [SEP] Jack Reed (Rhode Island politician) // campaign contributions from bank CEO Jamie Dimon. Reed supports affirmative action. He has voted to expand such policies and to set aside money for women and minorities from the highway fund. Reed also has supported gay rights, voting against a proposed constitutional amendment to ban gay marriage, while voting in favor of measures that prevent job discrimination and hate crimes against LGBT. He is strongly in favor of abortion rights, and he has rejected proposals to limit late-term abortion, such procedures from occurring on military installations, and the ability of minors to cross state lines to obtain abortions. Reed supports
US Sen. Reed wants to shorten the suicide prevention hotline. [SEP] Tom Coburn // don't want to save suicides, but because I don't think this bill will do the first thing to change what's happening," arguing the bill" "throws money and doesn't solve the real problem" After retiring from the U.S. Senate, Coburn joined Citizens for Self-Governance as a senior advisor to the group's Convention of States project, which seeks to convene a convention to propose amendments to the United States Constitution. In 2017, he authored a book on the subject titled "Smashing the DC Monopoly: Using Article V to Restore Freedom and Stop Runaway Government". Since 2015, Coburn has been affiliated with the
U.S. President Donald Trump tweeted in November 2009 that "Obama's handling of this whole pandemic has been terrible!" and that he "would never let thousands of Americans die from a pandemic while in office. [SEP] Political positions of Donald Trump // is single payer. In 2014, after a New York physician returned from treating Ebola patients in West Africa and showed symptoms of the disease, Trump tweeted that if the doctor had Ebola, "Obama should apologize to the American people & resign!" When the doctor was later confirmed to have developed Ebola in New York, Trump tweeted that it was "Obama's fault" and "I have been saying for weeks for President Obama to stop the flights from West Africa. So simple, but he refused. A TOTAL incompetent!" Trump also criticized President Obama's decision to send 3,000 U.S. troops to affected regions
U.S. President Donald Trump tweeted in November 2009 that "Obama's handling of this whole pandemic has been terrible!" and that he "would never let thousands of Americans die from a pandemic while in office. [SEP] Political positions of Donald Trump // to help combat the outbreak (see Operation United Assistance). As Dr. Kent Brantly returned to the U.S. for treatment, Trump tweeted that U.S. doctors who went abroad to treat Ebola were "great" but "must suffer the consequences" if they became infected and insisted that "the U.S. must immediately stop all flights from EBOLA infected countries or the plague will start and spread inside our 'borders.'" When an Ebola patient was scheduled to come to the U.S. for treatment, Trump tweeted, "now I know for sure that our leaders are incompetent. KEEP THEM OUT OF HERE!" Trump's suggestion on the Ebola
U.S. President Donald Trump tweeted in November 2009 that "Obama's handling of this whole pandemic has been terrible!" and that he "would never let thousands of Americans die from a pandemic while in office. [SEP] Mark Levin // Obama for the Ebola crisis, saying "the political policies of this administration which opens the door wide to people from the poorest parts of the world. We don't know who they are, we don't know if they have diseases." In March 2017, Levin alleged that the Obama administration had used "police state" surveillance tactics against the Donald Trump campaign during the 2016 presidential election. The "Associated Press" said that Levin "voiced without evidence the idea that Obama had wiretapped Trump Tower". Levin protested the "AP" report vigorously, demanding a retraction and an apology on the grounds that his sources for
U.S. President Donald Trump tweeted in November 2009 that "Obama's handling of this whole pandemic has been terrible!" and that he "would never let thousands of Americans die from a pandemic while in office. [SEP] 2009 Flu pandemic in North America // the world to present a mortal case. The deceased man was suffering other chronic diseases. The Minister of Health informed he had diabetes and also was suffering from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). She also informed the man was infected inside Costa Rica because he had not traveled to Mexico. On August 11 was confirmed that Costa Rica's President, Óscar Arias Sánchez, was infected with the A(H1N1) virus, becoming the first head of state sick with the A(H1N1) virus President Arias returned to his normal activities after one week of isolation at his home. As of September 8 the Costa
U.S. President Donald Trump tweeted in November 2009 that "Obama's handling of this whole pandemic has been terrible!" and that he "would never let thousands of Americans die from a pandemic while in office. [SEP] Political positions of Donald Trump // crisis "would go against all the expert advice being offered," with doctors warning "that isolating West Africa would only make the Ebola outbreak much worse, potentially denying help and supplies from getting in," and possibly destabilizing the countries and contributing to the disease's spread outside West Africa. On August 3, 2016, Trump called the Zika virus outbreak in Florida "a big problem". He expressed his support for Florida Governor Rick Scott's handling of the crisis, saying that he's "doing a fantastic job". When asked if Congress should convene an emergency session to approve Zika funding, Trump answered, "I would say
U.S. President Donald Trump tweeted in November 2009 that "Obama's handling of this whole pandemic has been terrible!" and that he "would never let thousands of Americans die from a pandemic while in office. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic in the United States // Barack Obama's trip to Mexico. However, the White House stated that the President is not at risk of obtaining the flu. Kathleen Sebelius was confirmed as the Secretary of Health and Human Services by the Senate on April 28, 2009 with a vote of 65-31. On October 24, President Obama declared the 2009 H1N1 swine flu a national emergency. The declaration will make it easier for U.S. medical facilities to handle a surge in flu patients by allowing the waiver of some requirements of Medicare, Medicaid and other federal health insurance programs as needed. During the week of April 19,
U.S. President Donald Trump tweeted in November 2009 that "Obama's handling of this whole pandemic has been terrible!" and that he "would never let thousands of Americans die from a pandemic while in office. [SEP] Carl Paladino // Paladino replied it was President Barack Obama dying of mad cow disease, stating: "Obama catches mad cow disease after being caught having relations with a Her[e]ford. He dies before his trial and is buried in a cow pasture next to [senior White House advisor] Valerie Jarret[t], who died weeks prior, after being convicted of sedition and treason, when a Jihady cell mate mistook her for being a nice person and decapitated her." After then being asked "what he would most like to see go in 2017", he replied: "Michelle Obama. I'd like her to return to being a male and
U.S. President Donald Trump tweeted in November 2009 that "Obama's handling of this whole pandemic has been terrible!" and that he "would never let thousands of Americans die from a pandemic while in office. [SEP] Donald Trump on social media // about Obama's win. Trump began that Election Day with a flurry of familiar complaints. He mocked Obama for playing basketball and blamed the Chinese for creating "the concept of global warming". Trump tweeted the next day, "but we'll have to live with it!" and: "We have to make America great again!" In response, Obama quipped on "The Tonight Show With Jay Leno" that Trump's beef with him "dated back to their days growing up in Kenya". From 2013 onwards, Trump's Twitter activity pattern significantly increased in the volume of his tweets and the rate of politically charged rhetoric, channeling the
U.S. President Donald Trump tweeted in November 2009 that "Obama's handling of this whole pandemic has been terrible!" and that he "would never let thousands of Americans die from a pandemic while in office. [SEP] Foreign policy of Donald Trump (2015-2016) // advert humanitarian disaster in Libya and warning that it would be "a major, major black eye for this country [the U.S.]" if it failed to depose Gaddafi. In a February 2011 video blog, Trump said: "I can't believe what our country is doing. Qaddafi in Libya is killing thousands of people, nobody knows how bad it is, and we're sitting around we have soldiers all have the Middle East, and we're not bringing them in to stop this horrible carnage ... Now we should go in, we should stop this guy, which would be very easy and very quick." Trump
U.S. President Donald Trump tweeted in November 2009 that "Obama's handling of this whole pandemic has been terrible!" and that he "would never let thousands of Americans die from a pandemic while in office. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic in the United States // been fully briefed." President Barack Obama stated that "We are closely monitoring the emerging cases of swine flu". He also noted, "This is obviously a cause for concern ... but it is not a cause for alarm". President Obama suggested that U.S. schools should consider shutting down, as a future possibility, if their students were to become infected. White House Press Secretary, Robert Gibbs said the effort to get a team in place to respond to the health scare has not been hindered by the lack of a secretary of Health and Human Services or appointees in any of the
Kayla Mueller, the 26-year-old woman who died while being held hostage   by the Islamic State terrorist group, “deserves no tears” because she   supported terrorist groups. [SEP] Kayla Mueller // Kayla Mueller Kayla Jean Mueller (August 14, 1988 – February 6, 2015) was an American human rights activist and humanitarian aid worker from Prescott, Arizona. She was taken captive in August 2013 in Aleppo, Syria, after leaving a Doctors Without Borders hospital. Media had long reported that a 26-year-old American aid worker was being held by the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) without naming her, at her family's request. In 2015, she was killed by an airstrike according to ISIL. This claim by her captors was rejected by Jordanian and American officials. In October 2015, Mueller became
Kayla Mueller, the 26-year-old woman who died while being held hostage   by the Islamic State terrorist group, “deserves no tears” because she   supported terrorist groups. [SEP] Kayla Mueller // raids." Later upon confirmation of Mueller's death he tweeted: "Saddened & angered to hear news confirming killing of #US hostage #kaylaMueller. Yet another ugly example of these terrorists' brutality." After many Western news outlets cast doubt on the claim of the hostage death and the extremists' ability to identify Jordanian and U.S. made F-16s flying at high altitudes, Jordan dismissed the claim of a killed hostage as an ISIL publicity stunt and a lie, as the group is known for its propaganda techniques. After Mueller's family confirmed her death, President Obama said "[Mueller] represents what is best about America, and
Kayla Mueller, the 26-year-old woman who died while being held hostage   by the Islamic State terrorist group, “deserves no tears” because she   supported terrorist groups. [SEP] Kayla Mueller // attempt to give other women a better chance at freedom. After months of prolonged torture and abuse, ISIL members attempted to use her as propaganda by claiming she had abandoned her Christian faith in front of other male prisoners, but she denied it. Daniel Rye Ottosen, a Danish freelance photographer and fellow captive, said that the men in the room "...were impressed by the strength that she showed in front of us. That was very clear." A media account affiliated with ISIL released a statement on February 6, 2015, claiming that a female American hostage held by the group was
Kayla Mueller, the 26-year-old woman who died while being held hostage   by the Islamic State terrorist group, “deserves no tears” because she   supported terrorist groups. [SEP] Kayla Mueller // suffering, her activism, and her humanitarian aid work, and praising her desire not to be seen, but to genuinely help people. According to Alter, "Mueller represented the best qualities of the millennial generationour idealism, our optimism, and our love of our familieswithout the troublesome ones." Kayla Mueller Kayla Jean Mueller (August 14, 1988 – February 6, 2015) was an American human rights activist and humanitarian aid worker from Prescott, Arizona. She was taken captive in August 2013 in Aleppo, Syria, after leaving a Doctors Without Borders hospital. Media had long reported that a 26-year-old American aid worker was being held
Kayla Mueller, the 26-year-old woman who died while being held hostage   by the Islamic State terrorist group, “deserves no tears” because she   supported terrorist groups. [SEP] Kayla Mueller // for Aafia Siddiqui, a convicted terrorist serving 86 years in federal prison; Siddiqui's release has been a long-sought demand of ISIL and al-Qaeda. The proposed exchange did not take place; the Obama administration had also rejected demands from other militant groups to exchange Siddiqui. It was reported by Catherine Herridge of Fox News via anonymous sources that the location of Mueller and other American hostages was known by the White House in May 2014. However, a decision regarding a rescue mission was not made for seven weeks, because the White House had asked for further intelligence to be obtained. By
Kayla Mueller, the 26-year-old woman who died while being held hostage   by the Islamic State terrorist group, “deserves no tears” because she   supported terrorist groups. [SEP] Kayla Mueller // killed by one of around a dozen Jordanian airstrikes in Raqqa. The statement came just days after the release of a video showing the burning alive of a Jordanian fighter pilot, Muath al-Kasasbeh, by ISIS and the subsequent execution of Sajida Mubarak Atrous al-Rishawi and other prisoners of Jordan. The statement was later translated by the SITE Intelligence Group, identifying the hostage as Mueller. Other reports claimed Mueller was killed in an American airstrike. Mueller had been a hostage of ISIL for 18 months. On February 6, 2015, ISIL published a photo of a damaged building, and alleged Mueller had
Kayla Mueller, the 26-year-old woman who died while being held hostage   by the Islamic State terrorist group, “deserves no tears” because she   supported terrorist groups. [SEP] Kayla Mueller // been killed in a Jordanian airstrike in the building where she was left alone with no guards, but no proof of death was provided. The Pentagon agreed the building was one hit in the bombings, but disputed that Mueller or any other civilian had been inside at the time. The site had been bombed by the coalition twice before, and was targeted again because ISIS soldiers sometimes return to bombed sites, thinking the coalition will not bomb those sites again, according to Pentagon spokesman John Kirby. After this, Mueller's name was released by American and other media with the family's
Kayla Mueller, the 26-year-old woman who died while being held hostage   by the Islamic State terrorist group, “deserves no tears” because she   supported terrorist groups. [SEP] Kayla Mueller // On February 8, 2016, Umm Sayyaf was charged by American prosecutors in Virginia with providing material support to a foreign terrorist organization that resulted in a person's death. The federal charge carries a maximum sentence of life imprisonment. She remains in Iraqi custody on terrorism-related charges. Mueller's parents reportedly implored ISIL to contact them as they hoped their daughter might still be alive. "We have sent you a private message and ask that you respond to us privately", Carl and Marsha Mueller said in a statement. They said they had not talked to the media as ISIL warned them not
Kayla Mueller, the 26-year-old woman who died while being held hostage   by the Islamic State terrorist group, “deserves no tears” because she   supported terrorist groups. [SEP] International Solidarity Movement // of Sajida al-Rishawi and other prisoners of Jordan. The statement was later translated by the SITE Intelligence Group, identifying the hostage as Mueller. On February 6, 2015, ISIL published a photo of a damaged building, named Mueller and her home town and alleged she had been killed in a Jordanian airstrike in the building where she was left alone with no guards, but no proof of death was provided. The Pentagon agreed the building was one hit in the bombings, but disputed that Mueller, or any civilian, was inside. The site had been bombed by the coalition twice before, and
Kayla Mueller, the 26-year-old woman who died while being held hostage   by the Islamic State terrorist group, “deserves no tears” because she   supported terrorist groups. [SEP] Kayla Mueller // expressed her deep pride in the freedoms that we Americans enjoy, and that so many others strive for around the world." United States Secretary of State John Kerry issued a statement saying "ISIL, and ISIL alone, is the reason Kayla is gone." The Pentagon declined to investigate whether Mueller was killed by the coalition airstrike. Policy dictates that the U.S. only investigates reports of civilian casualties when they come from a "credible source", which ISIL is not. In February 2015, Charlotte Alter of "TIME" described Kayla Mueller as an ideal role model for Millennials, citing her selfless desire to end
South Korea expands poultry cull on bird flu fears. [SEP] Influenza A virus subtype H5N8 // official delegations from Japan, South Korea and China gathered in Beijing for a symposium on preventing and controlling bird flu and other diseases in East Asia, according to the website of China's ministry of agriculture. By the end of December the outbreak had spread to South Korea, Japan, Germany, and the United Kingdom. Thousands of birds and animals were being culled in Germany to stop the spread. In the United Kingdom the flu was found in a wild duck at a turkey farm in Lincolnshire. In South Korea, a total of record 18.4 million birds had been killed by December
South Korea expands poultry cull on bird flu fears. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic in Asia // in Angoda. South Korea warned against travel to Mexico City and three Mexican states. The government has also stepped up quarantine and safety checks on travelers arriving from the United States and Mexico, and pork imports from those countries. An emergency quarantine system is also in place, with simple tests conducted on people arriving with flu symptoms at airports. On 28 April, South Korea reported its first probable case of swine flu after positive preliminary tests on a nun who had recently returned from a trip to Mexico. Several sources have informed that one case has been confirmed by lab
South Korea expands poultry cull on bird flu fears. [SEP] Avian influenza // testing for H5N1 as avian flu policy justified sacrificing poultry as a safeguard against HPAI spread. In response to these policies, farmers in Vietnam between 2003 and 2004 became more and more unwilling to surrender apparently healthy birds to authorities and stole poultry destined for culls as it stripped poultry of their biosocial and economic worth. By the end of 2005, the government implemented a new policy that targeted high-risk flock in the immediate vicinity of infected farms and instituted voluntary culling with compensation in the case of a local outbreak. Not only did culling result in severe economic impacts
South Korea expands poultry cull on bird flu fears. [SEP] Influenza A virus subtype H5N6 // reported in China. In bird, by December there were four outbreaks in China since October and forced the culling of more than 170,000 birds. By December 2016 South Korea had raised its bird flu alert to highest level for the first time. The heightened alarm status came as the country grappled with an outbreak of the highly pathogenic H5N6 bird flu that started a month ago in November. By the start of December H5N6 avian influenza was reported in bird droppings in Hong Kong. Influenza A virus subtype H5N6 H5N6 is a subtype of the species Influenza A virus (sometimes
South Korea expands poultry cull on bird flu fears. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic by country // to Japan via Detroit. The first domestic infection was confirmed on 16 May in Kobe. As of 18 May 130 cases had been confirmed. South Korea warned against travel to Mexico City and three Mexican states. The government stepped up quarantine and safety checks on travelers arriving from the United States and Mexico, and pork imports from those countries. An emergency quarantine system was instituted, with simple tests conducted on people with flu symptoms at airports. On 28 April, South Korea reported its first probable case after positive preliminary tests on a nun who had recently returned from Mexico. One
South Korea expands poultry cull on bird flu fears. [SEP] Influenza A virus subtype H7N9 // said that studies growing H7N9 virus should not be done in labs that culture human influenza viruses and that personnel should not have contact with susceptible animals for 5 days after handling H7N9 samples. Malaysia announced that it would temporarily ban Chinese chicken imports. Vietnam announced that it would temporarily ban Chinese poultry imports. All hospitals were informed to remain vigilant, and to notify Singapore's Ministry of Health (MOH) immediately of any suspected cases of avian influenza in individuals who have recently returned from affected areas in China. MOH advised returning travellers from affected areas in China (Shanghai, Anhui, Jiangsu,
South Korea expands poultry cull on bird flu fears. [SEP] Poultry farming // some detail. There is also a risk that crowded conditions in chicken farms will allow avian influenza (bird flu) to spread quickly. A United Nations press release states: "Governments, local authorities and international agencies need to take a greatly increased role in combating the role of factory-farming, commerce in live poultry, and wildlife markets which provide ideal conditions for the virus to spread and mutate into a more dangerous form..." Farming of chickens on an industrial scale relies largely on high protein feeds derived from soybeans; in the European Union the soybean dominates the protein supply for animal feed, and
South Korea expands poultry cull on bird flu fears. [SEP] 2008 H5N1 outbreak in West Bengal // party leaders resisted culling operations.. Agriculture Minister Sharad Pawar had slammed the Communist Party of India (Marxist) government for not reporting the bird flu epidemic early on. Shortage of staff for culling operation is one of the other reasons. At least eleven districts of West Bengal, including Birbhum, Nadia, Murshidabad, Burdwan, Hooghly, Cooch Behar, Malda, Bankura, Purulia, Howrah, West Midnapore, South 24 Parganas and South Dinajpur are affected by bird flu. 2008 H5N1 outbreak in West Bengal The 2008 bird flu outbreak in West Bengal is an occurrence of avian influenza in West Bengal, India that began on January 16,
South Korea expands poultry cull on bird flu fears. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic in Asia // come to North Korea, there is a possibility of rapid spreading of the disease through the jangmadang (market), which has become the primary means of survival for the people. The plans of the WHO to distribute swine flu vaccines, contributed by developed countries, to a selected 100 developing countries in November; North Korea is included in the priority list. On 16 November, the first known case was confirmed by the Ministry of Unification, released in a report by "Korea Times". The first case was confirmed in a South Korean worker in Gaeseong Industrial Complex. On 1 December, the Ministry of
South Korea expands poultry cull on bird flu fears. [SEP] Foot-and-mouth disease // and in January 2011, South Korean officials started a mass cull of approximately 12%, or around three million in total, of the entire domestic pig population, and 107,000 of three million cattle of the country to halt the outbreak. According to the report based on complete 1D gene sequences, Korean serotype A virus was linked with those from Laos. Korean serotype O viruses were divided into three clades and were closely related to isolates from Japan, Thailand, the UK, France, Ireland, South Africa, and Singapore, as well as Laos. On 10 February 2011, North Korea reported an outbreak affecting pigs
300,000 pounds of rat meat sold as chicken wings across America. [SEP] Broiler industry // (16,737,558 tonnes) of broilers were sold, for a retail value of $45 billion, based on retail weight sold multiplied by the retail composite price. In 2010, the US exported 6.8 billion pounds, valued at $3.1 billion, about 18% of production. In 2009, the US produced 8.6 billion birds. The top 3 states were Georgia, Arkansas and Alabama, each producing over 1 billion birds. Farm receipts were about $22 billion. There are fewer than 50 highly specialized, vertically integrated agribusiness firms that dominate the industry. The top 10 integrators produce about 60% of U.S. broilers. In 2001, there were 323 chicken
300,000 pounds of rat meat sold as chicken wings across America. [SEP] Poultry // at around 2% per year, but since then growth has slowed down to nearer 1%. Poultry is available fresh or frozen, as whole birds or as joints (cuts), bone-in or deboned, seasoned in various ways, raw or ready cooked. The meatiest parts of a bird are the flight muscles on its chest, called "breast" meat, and the walking muscles on the legs, called the "thigh" and "drumstick". The wings are also eaten (Buffalo wings are a popular example in the United States) and may be split into three segments, the meatier "drumette", the "wingette" (also called the "flat"), and the
300,000 pounds of rat meat sold as chicken wings across America. [SEP] Broiler industry // The layer business kept the Shaver name, and was sold as Natexis Industrie in 2003, and then to Hendrix in 2005. Worldwide, from 1985 to 2005, the broiler industry grew by 158%. Major increases were experienced by: In 2005 world production was 71,851,000 tonnes. Major producers were: In 2005, world exports of chicken meat $8.3 billion (CAD). Largest exporters were Brazil ($4 billion), the United States ($2.6 billion) and the EU-25 ($0.82 billion). The largest importers of chicken meat were: Japan ($1 billion), Russia ($943.3 million), Germany ($800.6 million) and Hong Kong ($598.8 million). In 2010, approximately 36.9 billion pounds
300,000 pounds of rat meat sold as chicken wings across America. [SEP] Chicken tax // million (over US$210 million in 2014 dollars). Senator J. William Fulbright, chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee and Democratic Senator from Arkansas, a chief U.S. poultry-producing state, interrupted a NATO debate on nuclear armament to protest trade sanctions on U.S. chicken, going so far as to threaten cutting U.S. troops in NATO. Konrad Adenauer, then Chancellor of Germany, later reported that President John F. Kennedy and he had a great deal of correspondence over a period of two years, about Berlin, Laos, the Bay of Pigs Invasion, "and I guess that about half of it has been about chickens."
300,000 pounds of rat meat sold as chicken wings across America. [SEP] Buffalo wing // however, is the most popular wing dipping sauce in the United States and wings are often served with sliced carrots or whole baby carrots. Buffalo wing A Buffalo wing, in the cuisine of the United States, is an unbreaded chicken wing section (flat or drumette) that is generally deep-fried then coated or dipped in a sauce consisting of a vinegar-based cayenne pepper hot sauce and melted butter prior to serving. The Buffalo wing was invented in 1964 at Anchor Bar in Buffalo, New York by Teressa Bellissimo. They are generally served hot, along with celery sticks or carrot sticks with
300,000 pounds of rat meat sold as chicken wings across America. [SEP] Bill Miller Bar-B-Q Enterprises // 200,000 slabs of pork ribs, and 9 million pounds of potatoes. They sold over 453,600 jalapeños, each one hand-sized in the field. They used 1.5 million pounds of tomato paste for barbecue sauce. In 1998, they sold more chicken than beef. They used 600,000 tea bags to brew 3 million gallons (11.3 million liters) of tea, enough for 10 million large iced teas. This was sweetened by 2 million pounds of sugar. They sold over 100,000 Texas Tea Buckets and "quart-size" insulated drinking mugs. Bill Miller Bar-B-Q Enterprises Bill Miller Bar-B-Q is a San Antonio-headquartered restaurant chain that focuses on
300,000 pounds of rat meat sold as chicken wings across America. [SEP] Tyson Foods // and prepared products at its 123 food processing plants. It produces many different products, including Buffalo wings, boneless Buffalo wings, chicken nuggets and tenders. Every week, its 54 chicken plants, 13 beef plants, and six pork plants slaughter and package 42.5 million chickens, 170,938 cattle, and 347,891 pigs. Their largest meat packing facility is their beef production plant in Dakota City, Nebraska. Other plants include feed mills, hatcheries, farms and tanneries. In 2001, Tyson Foods acquired IBP, Inc., the largest beef packer and number two pork processor in the U.S., for US$3.2 billion in cash and stock. Tyson has also
300,000 pounds of rat meat sold as chicken wings across America. [SEP] Timeline of United States inventions (1946–91) // satellite 1964 Buffalo wings A Buffalo wing, hot wing or wing is a chicken wing section (drumette or flat) that is traditionally fried unbreaded and then coated in sauce. Classic Buffalo-style chicken wing sauce is composed of a vinegar-based cayenne pepper hot sauce and butter. They are traditionally served with celery sticks and blue cheese dressing. Buffalo wings get their name from where they were invented, at the Anchor Bar in Buffalo, New York. In 1964, Teresa Bellissimo at the family-owned Anchor Bar, covered chicken wings in her own special sauce and served them with a side of blue cheese
300,000 pounds of rat meat sold as chicken wings across America. [SEP] Chicken as food // the U.S. are Cornish and White Rock. Chickens raised specifically for food are called broilers. In the U.S., broilers are typically butchered at a young age. Modern Cornish Cross hybrids, for example, are butchered as early as 8 weeks for fryers and 12 weeks for roasting birds. Capons (castrated cocks) produce more and fattier meat. For this reason, they are considered a delicacy and were particularly popular in the Middle Ages. Chicken meat contains about two to three times as much polyunsaturated fat as most types of red meat when measured as weight percentage. Chicken generally includes low fat in
300,000 pounds of rat meat sold as chicken wings across America. [SEP] Buffalo wing // Buffalo wings gained in popularity as a bar food and appetizer across the United States and Canada. Large franchises specializing in Buffalo wings have emerged, notably Buffalo Wild Wings founded in 1982 and Hooter's in 1983. McDonald's began selling Mighty Wings as an optional item in 1990 at their restaurant locations in the United States. In 1994, following four Super Bowl appearances by the Buffalo Bills football team, the Domino's pizza chain added Buffalo wings to their national menu, followed by Pizza Hut the next year. As the market for chicken wings became larger, restaurants began to create and use
Italy's coronavirus death toll climbs by 578, new cases continue to slow. [SEP] Coronavirus // 2013, a case of contamination from human to human in France was confirmed by the French Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. In addition, cases of person-to-person transmission have been reported by the Ministry of Health in Tunisia. Two confirmed cases seem to have caught the disease from their late father, who became ill after a visit to Qatar and Saudi Arabia. By Oct. 30 2013, there were 124 cases and 52 deaths in Saudi Arabia. After the Dutch Erasmus Medical Centre sequenced the virus, the virus was given a new name, Human Corona Virus-Erasmus Medical Centre (HCoV-EMC). The final
Italy's coronavirus death toll climbs by 578, new cases continue to slow. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // 73 to 85 years, but they have all chronic diseases." With this announcement, the unofficial global case count reached 49 while the death toll stands at 24 according to the CDC. As of 26 June 34 deaths have been recorded in the kingdom. On 1 August 2013, the World Health Organization announced three new MERS-CoV cases in that Saudi Arabia, all of them in women, two of whom were healthcare workers. "With the three new cases, Saudi Arabia's posted MERS tally increases to 74 cases with 39 deaths. The cases raise the WHO's MERS count to 94 cases and 46
Italy's coronavirus death toll climbs by 578, new cases continue to slow. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // United Kingdom, France, Germany, and the United Arab Emirates. According to a European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) publication, on April 2014, Tunisia had a total of 3 cases with 1 fatality. In May 2015, the first case in South Korea was confirmed in a man who had visited several Middle Eastern countries. As of 16 June 2015, a total of 150 cases has been infected, including 18 deaths, according to the World Health Organization (WHO). As of 29 June 2015, 32 people in South Korea have died from this outbreak, with 182 confirmed cases of infection. There
Italy's coronavirus death toll climbs by 578, new cases continue to slow. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // MERS had infected at least 60 people with cases reported in Jordan, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates (UAE), Tunisia, Germany, the United Kingdom (UK), France and Italy, with a death toll of 38. Saudi officials expressed great concern that millions of Muslims from around the world would potentially be exposed to the virus during the autumn Hajj, or pilgrimage to Mecca. In May 2014, the WHO said it was monitoring the situation as global cases of MERS appeared to be on the rise, but said the situation did not yet constitute a health emergency. On 3 June 2014,
Italy's coronavirus death toll climbs by 578, new cases continue to slow. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // Saudi Arabia revised the country's total cases of MERS to date to 688 cases after re-examining the data as part of an effort to better understand the disease. A total of 282 people had died from MERS. The numbers represented a jump of 113 cases and 92 deaths. Despite the jump in reported cases, the number of new cases was on the decline according to Tariq Madany, head of the medical advisory council. At the same time, the Saudi deputy health minister was fired, the second high level health official fired within two months. On 4 June 2014, a study
Italy's coronavirus death toll climbs by 578, new cases continue to slow. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // and from that family at least one additional person presented similar symptoms but tested negative for the novel coronavirus. On 21 February 2013, WHO stated that there had been 13 laboratory-confirmed cases, 6 cases (4 fatal) from Saudi Arabia, 2 cases (both fatal) from Jordan, 2 cases from Qatar, and 3 from the UK. In March 2013, the Saudi Arabia Ministry of Health reported the death of a 39-year-old man, the 15th case and 9th death reported to WHO. On 2 May 2013, the Saudi Ministry of Health announced five people died and two other people were in critical condition
Italy's coronavirus death toll climbs by 578, new cases continue to slow. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // deaths." On 31 October 2013, the WHO announced that three patients in Saudi Arabia died of MERS. The patients were one woman and two men and "all had underlying medical conditions but all reported having had no contact with animals before falling ill". Early of 23 April 2014, 11 new cases including a first case for Mecca were reported by the Health Ministry. An additional 13 cases were reported on the same day. With the additional reported cases, there are now a total of 285 cases with 83 deaths in the Kingdom. A hospital-related outbreak in Riyadh brought the total
Italy's coronavirus death toll climbs by 578, new cases continue to slow. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // the same room as the first patient was confirmed by French Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. France reported its first death from MERS near the end of May 2013. On 28 May 2013, a report by the Associated Press said a French patient died of the novel coronavirus related to SARS. Fifty percent of those infected have died. On 20 April 2014, Greece reported its first MERS-CoV case. The infected individual was a 69-year-old Greek male who had returned to Greece on April 17 from Saudi Arabia. People with close contact with the infected man were identified and are
Italy's coronavirus death toll climbs by 578, new cases continue to slow. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // Saudi Arabia. In the latest cluster of infections, 15 cases had been confirmed, and nine of those patients had died. Ten of the 22 people who died and 22 of 44 cases reported were in Saudi Arabia. An unconfirmed case in another Saudi citizen, for which no clinical information was available, was also reported around this time. On 22 September 2012, the Saudi Ministry of Health (MOH) announced that the two cases involving Saudi citizens, caused by what they termed a "rare pattern of coronavirus," had both proven fatal. Two of the Saudi Arabia cases were from the same family
Italy's coronavirus death toll climbs by 578, new cases continue to slow. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // government, in November 2013, reported a woman in Spain, who had recently traveled to Saudi Arabia for the Islamic pilgrimage, contracted the disease. On 14 April 2014, one Filipino paramedic died in the United Arab Emirates, with six other reported to be infected with the virus. On 17 April, the UAE Ministry of Health reported another fatality and four additional cases, including the Filipino medical worker who travelled to the Philippines on 16 April. On 21 April 2014, the Health Ministry of UAE reported an additional 9 cases. In April 2012, six hospital workers were diagnosed with acute respiratory failure
Missouri to create center for rural students’ mental health. [SEP] University of Missouri Health Care // operating video right at a patient’s bedside. Missouri Psychiatric Center, formerly known as Mid-Missouri Mental Health Center, offers short-term inpatient and outpatient treatment services for adults, adolescents and children with 57 inpatient beds. A 13-bed unit serves children and adolescents, while the remaining 44 beds are divided into two adult units. MUPC also offers an emergency room assessment unit to help with crisis stabilization and intake and discharge planning for patients. Psychiatrists also provide outpatient psychiatry care at MU Health Care's South Providence Medical Building, which opened in January 2015. Missouri Rehabilitation Center (MRC) was a 79-bed acute care hospital
Missouri to create center for rural students’ mental health. [SEP] University of Missouri–Kansas City // 2017 the University, in collaboration with Truman Medical Center, Children's Mercy Hospital, the Missouri Health Department, the Jackson County Medical Examiners Office, and the Missouri Department of Mental Health Behavioral Medicine, formed the UMKC Health Sciences District on Hospital Hill. This district is a first-in-the-nation partnership between local and state governments, the university, and these nationally recognized healthcare faculties, designed to promote collaboration in research, innovation, education, grant funding, and community outreach, for the advancement of health and wellness in the greater Kansas City metropolitan area. Also in 2017, the university announced plans to expand its metropolitan identity with the
Missouri to create center for rural students’ mental health. [SEP] Lucy Ozarin // City for three years, where she stimulated mental health activities and made sure funding was spent in accordance with rules and regulations. Ozarin attended the Harvard University School of Public Health, earning a Masters in Public Health in 1961. She returned to the Kansas City regional office after graduation. When President of the United States John F. Kennedy signed the Community Mental Health Act of 1963, the National Institute of Mental Health chose Ozarin as one of five people to write the regulations and establish community mental health centers across the country. In order to determine what form a community
Missouri to create center for rural students’ mental health. [SEP] University of Missouri Hospital // costs due to duplication of effort. University Hospital now owns and operates the mental health center, now named the Missouri Psychiatric Center. In 1976, the hospital and clinics were administratively separated from the UM Medical School control and became officially known as University Hospital and Clinics. In 1979, a new building was constructed for the School of Nursing. The parent organization of University Hospital, University of Missouri Healthcare, struggled financially for several years and lost nearly $40 million between fiscal years 2000 and 2002. In 2001, hospital officials embarked on a plan to attack the deficit by laying off some
Missouri to create center for rural students’ mental health. [SEP] Oklahoma Department of Mental Health and Substance Abuse Services // renamed Western State Psychiatric Hospital, and now called the Northwest Center for Behavioral Health. A year later, a second state-operated facility was opened in Vinita, Oklahoma, called the Eastern Oklahoma Hospital for the Insane, later renamed to the Oklahoma Forensic Center. On October 31, 1963, President John F. Kennedy signed into law the Community Mental Health Act of 1963, which sparked a major transformation of the public mental health system by shifting resources away from large institutions towards community-based mental health treatment programs. Soon after the passage of this law, the Department created the Central Oklahoma Community Mental Health Center
Missouri to create center for rural students’ mental health. [SEP] University of Missouri Health Care // in Mount Vernon, Missouri, which closed in October 2014. Missouri Rehabilitation Center had the largest traumatic brain injury program within the state of Missouri, as well as nationally noted programs for stroke rehabilitation, ventilator weaning and spinal cord and orthopedic rehabilitation. Originally built as the Missouri State Sanatorium in 1907, MRC merged with University of Missouri Health Care in 1996. Also on the MRC campus is a clinic operated as an extension of the VA Hospital in Fayetteville, Arkansas and the state's Tuberculosis Reference Laboratory run by the Missouri Department of Health. University Physicians primary and specialty-care clinics are located
Missouri to create center for rural students’ mental health. [SEP] University of North Dakota School of Medicine and Health Sciences // numerous grants. Their programs include the nationally recognized Rural Health Information Hub, the National Resource Center on Native American Aging and other programs. President Barack Obama appointed the director of the Center for Rural Health, Dr. Mary Wakefield, the Administrator of the Human Resources and Services Administration (HRSA) in 2009. The school was founded in 1905 to provide the first two years of medical education. In 1973, the school began granting the MD degree to students, though the third year of medical school was spent at either Mayo Medical School or the University of Minnesota Medical School. It was expanded
Missouri to create center for rural students’ mental health. [SEP] Missouri Southern State University // the Joplin Regional Center, owned by the Missouri Department of Mental Health, to Missouri Southern's campus in spring of 2009. The school is about 30 blocks northeast of the worst of the devastation of the 2011 Joplin tornado which destroyed much of southern Joplin on May 22, 2011—one day after the school's graduation. Joplin High School had just completed its school graduation on the campus shortly before the tornado. The Leggett and Platt Athletic Center was used as an emergency shelter for victims. Billingsly Student Center was the headquarters for volunteer efforts run by Americorps St. Louis and was the
Missouri to create center for rural students’ mental health. [SEP] University of Virginia School of Nursing // in rural mental health–-the Southeastern Rural Mental Health Research Center. It is also home to the National Institute of Health-funded Rural Health Care Research Center. Faculty and students volunteer in the yearly Remote Area Medical Health Clinic in Wise, Virginia, a free emergency medicine clinic that sees thousands of patients a day for three days every July. The School of Nursing is ranked in the 95th percentile of US nursing schools, tied in 19th place overall of 448. Four graduate nursing programs are also rated in the 95th percentile- Psychiatric/Mental Health (#5), Clinical Nurse Specialist-Adult/Medical-Surgical (#6), Pediatric Nurse Practitioner (#12),
Missouri to create center for rural students’ mental health. [SEP] Mendota Mental Health Institute // wing of Old Main starting in September 1964. The central wing of Old Main dated to 1860 and the west wing dated back to 1862. In the late 1960s and early 1970s the Program of Assertive Community Treatment (PACT) was developed at Mendota. A community-based treatment, rehabilitation, and supportive services program aimed at helping those with severe and persistent mental illness avoid psychiatric hospitalization and live independently in the community, the program was a forerunner of many other similar programs throughout the world. In 1974, MMHI received the American Psychiatric Association's Gold Achievement Award for the program, also known as
Tommy Robinson was jailed in order to silence his reporting on a sex abuse trial in England, and to "protect Muslim pedophiles. [SEP] Huddersfield grooming gang // its perpetrators were Muslims. Tommy Robinson streamed video from outside the court on Facebook during the second of the trials, filmed some of the accused and talked about Muslims and "jihad rape gangs", which led to his arrest and prosecution. He received a 13-month jail sentence for contempt of court in May 2018, but was released in August 2018 after he won his challenge against the ruling in the Court of Appeal. The case has been referred to the attorney general. 20 men were convicted of rape and abuse against 15 girls in October of 2018. The men were convicted
Tommy Robinson was jailed in order to silence his reporting on a sex abuse trial in England, and to "protect Muslim pedophiles. [SEP] Tommy Robinson (activist) // calling the defendants "Muslim child rapists" while the jury was deliberating. He received a three month sentence, suspended for 18 months. Judge Heather Norton said Robinson used "pejorative language in his broadcast which prejudged the outcome of the case and could have had the effect of substantially derailing the trial". She added, "this is not about free speech, not about the freedom of the press, nor about legitimate journalism, and not about political correctness. It is about justice and ensuring that a trial can be carried out justly and fairly, it's about being innocent until proven guilty. It is about
Tommy Robinson was jailed in order to silence his reporting on a sex abuse trial in England, and to "protect Muslim pedophiles. [SEP] Tommy Robinson (activist) // preserving the integrity of the jury to continue without people being intimidated or being affected by irresponsible and inaccurate 'reporting', if that's what it was". Robinson was jailed and later released in the summer of 2018 for almost collapsing the Huddersfield grooming gang trial. On 25 May 2018, Robinson was arrested for a breach of the peace while live streaming outside Leeds Crown Court during the trial of the Huddersfield grooming gang on which reporting restrictions had been ordered by the judge. Following Robinson's arrest, Judge Geoffrey Marson QC issued a further reporting restriction on Robinson's case, prohibiting any reporting
Tommy Robinson was jailed in order to silence his reporting on a sex abuse trial in England, and to "protect Muslim pedophiles. [SEP] Tommy Robinson (activist) // the EDL from 2009 until 8 October 2013. He continued as an activist, and in 2015 became involved with the development of Pegida UK, a British chapter of the German-based Pegida organisation (Patriotic Europeans Against the Islamisation of the West). From 2017 to 2018, Robinson wrote for and appeared in online videos for The Rebel Media, a Canadian far-right political website. In May 2018, Robinson was sentenced to 13 months' imprisonment for contempt of court after publishing a Facebook Live video of defendants entering a law court, contrary to a court order to prevent reporting those trials while proceedings are
Tommy Robinson was jailed in order to silence his reporting on a sex abuse trial in England, and to "protect Muslim pedophiles. [SEP] Tommy Robinson (activist) // society in general." Reporting restrictions were lifted on the three Huddersfield grooming gang trials after the jury reached a verdict in the final trial. The Yorkshire Evening Post explained that it abided by the temporary restrictions because "If we had reported on the first trial then jurors may have been swayed in the second trial - a defence lawyer would argue that their clients could not get a fair hearing ... the whole trial could have collapsed ... a judge may have had to rule that they could not get a fair trial and those girls would NEVER have seen
Tommy Robinson was jailed in order to silence his reporting on a sex abuse trial in England, and to "protect Muslim pedophiles. [SEP] Tommy Robinson (activist) // of Robinson's case or the grooming trial until the latter case is complete. The reporting restriction with regard to Robinson was lifted on 29 May 2018, following a challenge by journalists. The media reported that Robinson had admitted contempt of court by publishing information that could prejudice an ongoing trial, and had been sentenced to 13 months' imprisonment. Justice Marson sentenced Robinson to ten months for contempt of court and his previous three months' suspended sentence was activated because of the breach. Robinson's lawyer said that Robinson felt "deep regret" after comprehending the potential consequences of his behaviour. Having breached
Tommy Robinson was jailed in order to silence his reporting on a sex abuse trial in England, and to "protect Muslim pedophiles. [SEP] Tommy Robinson (activist) // Prison Bedford, saying that he was a "political prisoner of the state", and refused to eat what he believed was halal meat. A handful of EDL supporters protested outside the prison in support of Robinson during his incarceration; the support peaked at a turnout of 100 protesters on 10 September. Robinson was released on bail on 12 September. On 29 September 2011, Robinson was convicted of common assault after headbutting a fellow EDL member at a rally in Blackburn in April that year. He was sentenced to 12 weeks' imprisonment, suspended for 12 months. Robinson said that the assault had
Tommy Robinson was jailed in order to silence his reporting on a sex abuse trial in England, and to "protect Muslim pedophiles. [SEP] Tommy Robinson (activist) // in his support. Demonstrators prevented a Muslim woman from driving a bus, performed Nazi salutes, threw scaffolding, glass bottles and street furniture at police and damaged vehicles and buildings. Robinson's supporters sent abusive messages to journalists who were complying with the court order by waiting until after the trial, wrongly lambasting them for "covering up" crime. An online petition for his release had more than 500,000 signatures. Anti-fascist advocacy group "Hope not Hate" said its analysis showed that 68.1% of the signatures were from the UK, with 9.7% from Australia, and 9.3% from the US. Canada, Germany, France, New Zealand,
Tommy Robinson was jailed in order to silence his reporting on a sex abuse trial in England, and to "protect Muslim pedophiles. [SEP] Tommy Robinson (activist) // a director of the think tank Demos: "In Woodhill, I experienced Islam the gang. [...] In Winchester, I have experienced Islam the religion." Robinson made friends with several Muslim prisoners, referring to them as "great lads [...] I cannot speak highly enough of the Muslim inmates I'm now living with". In June 2014 Robinson was released on licence. The terms of his early release included having no contact with the EDL until the end of his original sentence in June 2015. He was due to talk to the Oxford Union in October 2014, but was recalled to prison before the
Tommy Robinson was jailed in order to silence his reporting on a sex abuse trial in England, and to "protect Muslim pedophiles. [SEP] Tommy Robinson (activist) // he was arrested for contempt of court after he attempted to take video of the defendants in a child rape case outside Canterbury Crown Court. Robinson's second self-published book, " Mohammed's Koran: Why Muslims Kill For Islam" was co-authored with Peter McLoughlin and released in 2017. Robinson was involved in a fist fight at Royal Ascot later in June 2017, for which Piers Morgan criticised him on Twitter. In March 2018, Robinson was permanently banned from the microblogging site Twitter for violating its rules on "hateful conduct". In March 2018, Robinson attended court in support of Mark Meechan, who was
What's in a name? Losing Asperger's label not such a big change. [SEP] Asperger syndrome // is pathological; they promote tolerance for what they call neurodiversity. These views are the basis for the autistic rights and autistic pride movements. There is a contrast between the attitude of adults with self-identified AS, who typically do not want to be cured and are proud of their identity; and parents of children with AS, who typically seek assistance and a cure for their children. Some researchers have argued that AS can be viewed as a different cognitive style, not a disorder, and that it should be removed from the standard "Diagnostic and Statistical Manual", much as homosexuality was removed.
What's in a name? Losing Asperger's label not such a big change. [SEP] Rudy Simone // between her writing and treatment as well as dietary changes, her symptoms had diminished to the point she did not feel she qualified as a person on the spectrum. However, she later realized that she remains a person with Asperger's, and most recently has been working in France to reform the treatment of people with autism in that country. On August 12, 2016, she gave an interview on the Everyday Aspie website where she explained that her self-diagnosis was not officially confirmed and she did not feel the need to be evaluated. She changed her name in 2017 and now
What's in a name? Losing Asperger's label not such a big change. [SEP] Asperger syndrome // Asperger syndrome Asperger syndrome (AS), also known as Asperger's, is a developmental disorder characterized by significant difficulties in social interaction and nonverbal communication, along with restricted and repetitive patterns of behavior and interests. As a milder autism spectrum disorder (ASD), it differs from other ASDs by relatively normal language and intelligence. Although not required for diagnosis, physical clumsiness and unusual use of language are common. Signs usually begin before two years old and typically last for a person's entire life. The exact cause of Asperger's is unknown. While it is probably partly inherited, the underlying genetics have not been determined
What's in a name? Losing Asperger's label not such a big change. [SEP] Neurodiversity // cured by addressing environmental causes. Many autistic supporters of autism rights describe themselves through words that emphasize the condition as an intrinsic part of their identity, such as "autistic", or "aspie" for those with Asperger syndrome. This contrasts to a general recommendation by US disability advocacy organizations for the use of person-first language when referring to a person with a medical or mental condition or disability, which emphasizes the "person" with the condition, who has, rather than is defined by it. There are accepted general arguments for the use of 'disabled person' similarly based on the social model of disability
What's in a name? Losing Asperger's label not such a big change. [SEP] Asperger syndrome // AS recognized as an important subgroup. Whether it should be seen as distinct from high-functioning autism is a fundamental issue requiring further study, and there are questions about the empirical validation of the DSM-IV and ICD-10 criteria. In 2013, DSM-5 eliminated AS as a separate diagnosis, folding it into the autism spectrum on a severity scale. People identifying with Asperger syndrome may refer to themselves in casual conversation as "aspies" (a term first used in print by Liane Holliday Willey in 1999). The word "neurotypical" (abbreviated "NT") describes a person whose neurological development and state are typical and is often
What's in a name? Losing Asperger's label not such a big change. [SEP] History of Asperger syndrome // The levels are determined by the amount of support the individual requires. Due to the change, individuals who were previously diagnosed with Asperger's Syndrome most likely were re-diagnosed within the umbrella of the autism spectrum disorder because of the DSM changes and revisions. History of Asperger syndrome Asperger syndrome (AS) is an autism spectrum disorder (ASD). It is a relatively new diagnosis in the field of autism. It was named in honor of Hans Asperger (1906–80), who was an Austrian psychiatrist and pediatrician. An English psychiatrist, Lorna Wing, popularized the term "Asperger's syndrome" in a 1981 publication; the first book
What's in a name? Losing Asperger's label not such a big change. [SEP] Diagnosis of Asperger syndrome // diagnosis-related autism research planning conference noted problems with the classification of AS as a distinct subgroup of ASD, and two of three breakout groups recommended eliminating AS as a separate diagnosis. A neuropsychological profile has been proposed for AS; if verified, it could differentiate between AS and HFA and aid in differential diagnosis. Relative to HFA, people with AS have deficits in nonverbal skills such as visual-spatial problem solving and visual-motor coordination, along with stronger verbal abilities. Several studies have found AS with a neuropsychologic profile of assets and deficits consistent with a nonverbal learning disability, but several other studies
What's in a name? Losing Asperger's label not such a big change. [SEP] Diagnosis of Asperger syndrome // standardized diagnostic screening for the disorder. According to the US National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, physicians look for the presence of a primary group of behaviors to make a diagnosis such as abnormal eye contact, aloofness, failure to respond when called by name, failure to use gestures to point or show, lack of interactive play with others, and a lack of interest in peers. The diagnoses of AS or high-functioning autism (HFA) are sometimes used interchangeably; the same child can receive different diagnoses depending on the screening tool and the individual administering the test. Diagnoses may be influenced
What's in a name? Losing Asperger's label not such a big change. [SEP] Asperger syndrome // or achievements with others (for example, showing others objects of interest); a lack of social or emotional reciprocity (social "games" give-and-take mechanic); and impaired nonverbal behaviors in areas such as eye contact, facial expression, posture, and gesture. People with AS may not be as withdrawn around others, compared with those with other, more debilitating forms of autism; they approach others, even if awkwardly. For example, a person with AS may engage in a one-sided, long-winded speech about a favorite topic, while misunderstanding or not recognizing the listener's feelings or reactions, such as a wish to change the topic of talk
What's in a name? Losing Asperger's label not such a big change. [SEP] Societal and cultural aspects of autism // predispose the individual to use physical acts to articulate the mood and release the emotional energy. People with AS report a feeling of being detached against their will from the world around them ("on the outside looking in"). They may have difficulty finding a life partner or getting married due to poor social skills. The complexity and inconsistency of the social world can pose an extreme challenge for individuals with AS. In the UK Asperger's is covered by the Disability Discrimination Act; those with AS who get treated badly because of it may have some redress. The first case was
Missouri Votes to Let Employers Fire People Who Use Birth Control. [SEP] Mike Cierpiot // and favors reducing government restrictions on business. He has expressed support for the use of tax incentives in an attempt to attract business to Missouri. He has expressed concern that western cities in Missouri are losing jobs to Kansas. On September 12, 2012, Cierpiot voted to overturn Governor Jay Nixon's veto of SB749. The bill allowed health insurance providers to refuse to provide coverage for contraception based on moral convictions. In 2012, Cierpiot endorsed the Missouri Public Prayer Amendment to the state constitution, which was approved by Missouri voters on August 7, 2012. In 2014, Cierpiot voted in favor of
Missouri Votes to Let Employers Fire People Who Use Birth Control. [SEP] War on Women // requiring that all health plans provide coverage for all contraceptives approved by the FDA as part of preventive health services for women. Following complaints from Catholic bishops, an exception was created for religious institutions whereby an employee of a religious institution that does not wish to provide reproductive health care can seek it directly from the insurance company at no additional cost. Missouri Senator Roy Blunt proposed an amendment (the Blunt Amendment) that would have "allowed employers to refuse to include contraception in health care coverage if it violated their religious or moral beliefs", but it was voted down 51-48
Missouri Votes to Let Employers Fire People Who Use Birth Control. [SEP] Vicky Hartzler // of gay marriage show that Missourians oppose gay marriage 47% to 41% with a margin of error of 3.6. Hartzler voted against the reauthorization of the Violence Against Women Act. At a town hall meeting in Missouri on April 5, 2012, Hartzler expressed doubts regarding President Barack Obama's birth certificate. Hartzler is a staunch opponent of the Affordable Care Act and a supporter of the American Health Care Act. In September 2013, Hartzler voted in favor of a $39 billion reduction in Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) Benefits (aka "food stamps"). This bill was separate for the first time in
Missouri Votes to Let Employers Fire People Who Use Birth Control. [SEP] Eric Greitens // two executive orders banned employees in the executive branch from accepting gifts from lobbyists and froze all new regulations through February 2017. He remained opposed to accepting a federal Medicaid expansion in Missouri. In November 2018, a statewide referendum put heavy restrictions on lobbyist gifts, virtually banning them. On February 6, 2017, Greitens signed a bill into law making Missouri the 28th right-to-work state. In response, unions, who opposed the law, filed a referendum to overturn the law for 2018. On August 7, 2018, Missouri voters voted to overturn the right-to-work law. On August 22, 2017, Greitens granted a stay
Missouri Votes to Let Employers Fire People Who Use Birth Control. [SEP] Gary Romine // defeated Terry Varner in the Republican primary and state representative Joseph Fallert, Jr. in the general election for the 3rd district. On April 2, 2013, Romine introduced an amendment to bill Missouri SB 712 that removed a section containing penalties for employers who fired victims of domestic violence requesting unpaid leave. Gary Romine Gary Romine is an American entrepreneur, Republican member of the Missouri Senate, and former teacher. He has represented the 3rd district, which includes Iron County, Reynolds County, St. Francois County, Ste. Genevieve County, Washington County and part of Jefferson County, since 2013. Gary Romine graduated from Poplar
Missouri Votes to Let Employers Fire People Who Use Birth Control. [SEP] Rex Sinquefield // the Missouri ballot in 2010. this initiative, called Proposition A, would prevent all Missouri communities except Kansas City and St. Louis from imposing earnings taxes. It would also allow Kansas City and St. Louis voters to vote on whether to retain their earnings taxes. Missourians passed proposition A with a large margin – 68.4% YES / 31.6% NO (1,294,911 YES votes to 598,010 NO votes). On January 5, 2011, Let Voters Decide submitted nine initiative petitions to the Missouri Secretary of State calling for a repeal of the state's income tax – with a top rate of 6 percent. The
Missouri Votes to Let Employers Fire People Who Use Birth Control. [SEP] 2012 United States Senate election in Missouri // of Commerce and hosted by television station KSDK, public radio station KWMU and the St. Louis Business Journal. While making remarks on rape and abortion on August 19, 2012, Akin made the claim that women victims of what he described as "legitimate rape" rarely experience pregnancy from rape. In an interview aired on St. Louis television station KTVI-TV, Aiken was asked his views on whether women who became pregnant due to rape should have the option of abortion. He replied: Well you know, people always want to try to make that as one of those things, well how do you,
Missouri Votes to Let Employers Fire People Who Use Birth Control. [SEP] Iron County, Missouri // Missourians voted on a constitutional amendment to define marriage as the union between a man and a woman—it overwhelmingly passed Iron County with 80.90 percent of the vote. The initiative passed the state with 71 percent of support from voters as Missouri became the first state to ban same-sex marriage. In 2006, Missourians voted on a constitutional amendment to fund and legalize embryonic stem cell research in the state—it failed in Iron County with 56.03 percent voting against the measure. The initiative narrowly passed the state with 51 percent of support from voters as Missouri became one of the first
Missouri Votes to Let Employers Fire People Who Use Birth Control. [SEP] 2006 Missouri Constitutional Amendment 2 // that a majority of those who voted "No" got their information from television. On November 7, 2006, Amendment 2 passed by a margin of 2.4% (or 50,800 votes). The final tally of votes ended in 51.2% for yes and 48.8% for no. The measure failed in 97 of the 114 counties in the state, but picked up enough votes in St. Louis, Kansas City, and Columbia (and their surrounding counties) to pass statewide. Due to the very close vote that made it virtually impossible to recruit researchers to come to Missouri, Stowers Institute for Medical Research canceled plans for a
Missouri Votes to Let Employers Fire People Who Use Birth Control. [SEP] Texas County, Missouri // to ban same-sex marriage. In 2006, Missourians voted on a constitutional amendment to fund and legalize embryonic stem cell research in the state—it failed in Texas County with 61.13 percent voting against the measure. The initiative narrowly passed the state with 51 percent of support from voters as Missouri became one of the first states in the nation to approve embryonic stem cell research. Despite Texas County's longstanding tradition of supporting socially conservative platforms, voters in the county have a penchant for advancing populist causes like increasing the minimum wage. In 2006, Missourians voted on a proposition (Proposition B) to
Tiny Eye Telescope Brings Back A World Of Sight [SEP] NEOSTEL // of ESA's Space Situational Awareness Programme. The telescope itself should be complete by end of 2019, and installation on Mount Mufara, Sicily should be complete in 2020, having been agreed with the Italian Space Agency in October 2018. The fly eye aspect of the telescope refers to the use of compound optics, as opposed to the single set of optics used in a conventional telescope. Historically, telescopes have been designed around a single human observer looking through an eye piece. As technology has developed astrographs have been used where either a photographic plate or CCD records the image, which a
Tiny Eye Telescope Brings Back A World Of Sight [SEP] Small telescope // Small telescope A small telescope is generally considered by professional astronomers to be any reflector-type telescope with a primary mirror of less than diameter. By amateur standards a small telescope can have a primary mirror/aperture less than in diameter. Little if any professional-level research is performed with the refracting type of telescope in the modern era of astronomy. Small telescopes dominate astronomical research in the fields of asteroid and comet discovery and observation, variable star photometry, and supernova and nova discovery, and colorimetry and polarimetry of the solar system's planets. Because of their limited light-gathering capability, small telescopes are usually
Tiny Eye Telescope Brings Back A World Of Sight [SEP] Cosmic Eye // Cosmic Eye Cosmic Eye is a short film and iOS app, developed by astrophysicist Danail Obreschkow. It shows the largest and smallest known scales of the universe by gradually zooming out from and then back into the face of a young lady called "Louise". According to the developer, the film and app were inspired by the essay "Cosmic View" (1957) and the short films "Cosmic Zoom" (1968) and "Powers of Ten" (1977), but use state-of-the-art know-how and new scientific imaging and computer simulations. "Cosmic Eye" was developed in 2012 and suddenly become famous in April 2016, when it scored 40
Tiny Eye Telescope Brings Back A World Of Sight [SEP] NEOSTEL // CCD cameras to view 45 square degrees of light entering the telescope aperture. The resolution is 1.5 arc seconds per pixel across the whole field of view. NEOSTEL The Near Earth Object Survey TELescope (NEOSTEL - also known as "Flyeye") is an astronomical survey and early-warning system for detecting near-Earth objects sized 40 m and above a few weeks before they impact Earth. NEOSTEL is an ESA funded project, starting with an initial prototype currently under construction at OHB in Milan. The telescope is of a new "fly-eye" design inspired by the wide field of vision from a fly's eye.
Tiny Eye Telescope Brings Back A World Of Sight [SEP] Hubble Space Telescope // in the early Universe approximately 280 million years older than stars HST now detects. The telescope is an international collaboration between NASA, the European Space Agency, and the Canadian Space Agency since 1996, and is planned for launch on an Ariane 5 rocket. Although JWST is primarily an infrared instrument, its coverage extends down to 600 nm wavelength light, or roughly orange in the visible spectrum. A typical human eye can see to about 750 nm wavelength light, so there is some overlap with the longest visible wavelength bands, including orange and red light. A complementary telescope, looking at even
Tiny Eye Telescope Brings Back A World Of Sight [SEP] Astronomical seeing // such as the Navy Prototype Optical Interferometer or Cambridge Optical Aperture Synthesis Telescope, but those can only be used on very bright stars. Starting in the 1990s, many telescopes have developed adaptive optics systems that partially solve the seeing problem. The best systems so far built, such as SPHERE on the ESO VLT and GPI on the Gemini telescope, achieve a Strehl ratio of 90% at a wavelength of 2.2 micrometers, but only within a very small region of the sky at a time. Another cheaper technique, lucky imaging, has had good results on smaller telescopes. This idea dates back
Tiny Eye Telescope Brings Back A World Of Sight [SEP] Eye to the Telescope (magazine) // Eye to the Telescope (magazine) Eye to the Telescope is a quarterly online journal of the Science Fiction Poetry Association, which publishes speculative poetry, including science-fiction, fantasy, horror, and poetry. It was established in 2011. It is a theme-based periodical with rotating editors. The first issue, in May 2011, had the theme "The Long and Short of Speculative Poetry," and featured both short poems, including haiku, tanka, and other short poems, contrasted with long poems. It was edited by Samantha Henderson and Deborah P Kolodji. Since then the journal's editors are selected by the current SFPA president and change with
Tiny Eye Telescope Brings Back A World Of Sight [SEP] Mount John University Observatory // camera. This is a 0.61m fork mounted reflecting telescope operating at f/16. This telescope is used exclusively for CCD photometry. It is currently being upgraded and commissioned for robotic use as part of the AAVSO's Robotic Telescope Network. This is the AAVSO's first Southern Hemisphere telescope. This telescope, used exclusively for visual tourist operations is a 0.4m Meade LX200 telescope. In June 2008 it was reported at the meeting of American Astronomical Society that using their new MOA-II telescope, the observatory discovered what is at the time the smallest planet known outside of our Solar System. The planet MOA-2007-BLG-192Lb is
Tiny Eye Telescope Brings Back A World Of Sight [SEP] NEOSTEL // NEOSTEL The Near Earth Object Survey TELescope (NEOSTEL - also known as "Flyeye") is an astronomical survey and early-warning system for detecting near-Earth objects sized 40 m and above a few weeks before they impact Earth. NEOSTEL is an ESA funded project, starting with an initial prototype currently under construction at OHB in Milan. The telescope is of a new "fly-eye" design inspired by the wide field of vision from a fly's eye. The design combines a single reflector with multiple sets of optics and CCDs, giving a very wide field of view (around 45 square degrees). When complete it
Tiny Eye Telescope Brings Back A World Of Sight [SEP] WorldWide Telescope // WorldWide Telescope WorldWide Telescope (WWT) is an open-source set of applications, data and cloud services, originally created by Microsoft Research but now an open source project hosted on GitHub. The .NET Foundation holds the copyright and the project is managed by the American Astronomical Society and has been supported by grants from the Moore Foundation and National Science Foundation. WWT displays astronomical, earth and planetary data allowing visual navigation through the 3-dimensional (3D) Universe. Users are able to navigate the sky by panning and zooming, or explore the 3D universe from the surface of Earth to past the Cosmic microwave
Mammograms Cut Risk of Breast Cancer Death by Half, Study Finds [SEP] Breast cancer screening // Screening targeted towards women with above-average risk produces more benefit than screening of women at average or low risk for breast cancer. A 2013 Cochrane review estimated that mammography in women between 50 and 75 years old results in a relative decreased risk of death from breast cancer of 15% and an absolute risk reduction of 0.05%. However, when the analysis included only the least biased trials, women who had regular screening mammograms were just as likely to die from all causes, and just as likely to die specifically from breast cancer, as women who did not. The size of
Mammograms Cut Risk of Breast Cancer Death by Half, Study Finds [SEP] Breast imaging // find an effect of mammography screening on total cancer mortality, including breast cancer, after 10 years. The authors of systematic review write: "If we assume that screening reduces breast cancer mortality by 15% and that overdiagnosis and overtreatment is at 30%, it means that for every 2000 women invited for screening throughout 10 years, one will avoid dying of breast cancer and 10 healthy women, who would not have been diagnosed if there had not been screening, will be treated unnecessarily. Furthermore, more than 200 women will experience important psychological distress including anxiety and uncertainty for years because of false
Mammograms Cut Risk of Breast Cancer Death by Half, Study Finds [SEP] Mammography // was associated with a 8%-33% decrease in breast cancer mortality in different age groups, but that this decrease was not statistically significant at the age groups of 39-49 and 70-74. The same review found that mammography significantly decreased the risk of advanced cancer among women aged 50 and older by 38%, but among those aged 39 to 49 the risk reduction was a non significant 2%. The goal of any screening procedure is to examine a large population of patients and find the small number most likely to have a serious condition. These patients are then referred for further, usually
Mammograms Cut Risk of Breast Cancer Death by Half, Study Finds [SEP] Mammography // addition to unnecessary surgery and anxiety, the risks of more frequent mammograms include a small but significant increase in breast cancer induced by radiation. Additionally, mammograms should not be performed with increased frequency in patients undergoing breast surgery, including breast enlargement, mastopexy, and breast reduction. The Cochrane Collaboration (2013) concluded after ten years that trials with adequate randomization did not find an effect of mammography screening on total cancer mortality, including breast cancer. The authors of this Cochrane review write: "If we assume that screening reduces breast cancer mortality by 15% and that overdiagnosis and over-treatment is at 30%, it
Mammograms Cut Risk of Breast Cancer Death by Half, Study Finds [SEP] Mammography // reduction in mortality from all types of cancer from screening mammography. The Canadian Task Force found that for women ages 50 to 69, screening 720 women once every 2 to 3 years for 11 years would prevent 1 death from breast cancer. For women ages 40 to 49, 2,100 women would need to be screened at the same frequency and period to prevent a single death from breast cancer. Women whose breast cancer was detected by screening mammography before the appearance of a lump or other symptoms commonly assume that the mammogram "saved their lives". In practice, the vast majority
Mammograms Cut Risk of Breast Cancer Death by Half, Study Finds [SEP] Cancer prevention // to be more than 1.7 million, with more than six-hundred thousand deaths. Factors such as breast size, reduced physical activity, obesity and overweight status, infertility and never having had children, hormone replacement therapy (HRT), and genetics are risk factors for breast cancer. Mammograms are widely used to screen for breast cancer, and are recommended for women 50–74 years of age by the US Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF). However, the USPSTF recommended against mammographies for women 40–49 years old due to possibility of overdiagnosis. As of 2017, tobacco use, diet and nutrition, physical activity, obesity/overweight status, infectious agents, and chemical
Mammograms Cut Risk of Breast Cancer Death by Half, Study Finds [SEP] Mammography // early cancers, even though not acted on immediately, were still reliably curable. The radiation exposure associated with mammography is a potential risk of screening, which appears to be greater in younger women. The largest study of radiation risk from mammography concluded that for women 40 years of age and older, the risk of radiation-induced breast cancer was minuscule, particularly compared with the potential benefit of mammographic screening, with a benefit-to-risk ratio of 48.5 lives saved for each life lost due to radiation exposure. Organizations such as the National Cancer Institute and United States Preventive Task Force take such risks into
Mammograms Cut Risk of Breast Cancer Death by Half, Study Finds [SEP] Breast cancer // in breast cancer induced by radiation. The Cochrane collaboration (2013) states that the best quality evidence neither demonstrates a reduction in cancer specific, nor a reduction in all cause mortality from screening mammography. When less rigorous trials are added to the analysis there is a reduction in mortality due to breast cancer of 0.05% (a decrease of 1 in 2000 deaths from breast cancer over 10 years or a relative decrease of 15% from breast cancer). Screening over 10 years results in a 30% increase in rates of over-diagnosis and over-treatment (3 to 14 per 1000) and more than half
Mammograms Cut Risk of Breast Cancer Death by Half, Study Finds [SEP] Mammography // women will undergo unnecessary breast cancer treatment. Additionally, 200 women will suffer from significant psychological stress due to false positive results. Newman points out that screening mammography does not reduce death overall, but causes significant harm by inflicting cancer scare and unnecessary surgical interventions. The Nordic Cochrane Collection notes that advances in diagnosis and treatment of breast cancer may make breast cancer screening no longer effective in decreasing death from breast cancer, and therefore no longer recommend routine screening for healthy women as the risks might outweigh the benefits. Often women are quite distressed to be called back for a
Mammograms Cut Risk of Breast Cancer Death by Half, Study Finds [SEP] Breast cancer screening // value of routine mammography in women at low or average risk is controversial. With unnecessary treatment of ten women for every one woman whose life was prolonged, the authors concluded that routine mammography may do more harm than good. If 1,000 women in their 50s are screened every year for ten years, the following outcomes are considered typical in the developed world: The outcomes are worse for women in their 20s, 30s, and 40s, as they are far less likely to have a life-threatening breast cancer, and more likely to have dense breasts that make interpreting the mammogram more difficult.
ABC fired Joy Behar from her job co-hosting "The View" after she made comments about Vice President Mike Pence's religious beliefs. [SEP] The View (talk show) // the show of expressing "religious intolerance." Content analysis organization Media Research Center subsequently launched a campaign demanding an apology from Behar and urging viewers to do so, resulting in 40,000 calls to ABC as well as 6,000 complaints to the show's advertisers. The Walt Disney Company CEO Bob Iger later stated that Behar has directly apologized to Pence. On March 13, Behar issued an apology on air, stating: "I think Vice President Pence is right; I was raised to respect everyone’s religious faith, and I fell short of that. I sincerely apologize for what I said." A "New York Times"
ABC fired Joy Behar from her job co-hosting "The View" after she made comments about Vice President Mike Pence's religious beliefs. [SEP] Joy Behar // She later apologised to Pence for what were termed "anti-Christian" remarks. Beginning in 2007, she occasionally filled in as a guest host on "Larry King Live". On June 11, 2009, Behar announced that she would be hosting her own news/talk program on CNN's HLN beginning in the fall of 2009, titled "The Joy Behar Show". She did not leave "The View" but worked on both shows simultaneously. Despite reportedly being the network's second highest-rated show, HLN decided to cancel the talk show after only two years. The final broadcast of "The Joy Behar Show" aired on December 15, 2011. In
ABC fired Joy Behar from her job co-hosting "The View" after she made comments about Vice President Mike Pence's religious beliefs. [SEP] Joy Behar // Joy Behar Josephine Victoria "Joy" Behar (; née Occhiuto; born October 7, 1942) is an American comedian, writer, and actress. She co-hosts the ABC daytime talk show "The View". She hosted "The Joy Behar Show" on HLN from 2009 to 2011 and "" on Current TV, from 2012 until the channel switched formats in August 2013. Behar's latest weekly late-night talk show, "Late Night Joy", aired on TLC in 2015. She also wrote "The Great Gasbag: An A–Z Study Guide to Surviving Trump World". Behar was born Josephine Occhiuto in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, New York, the only child to a Roman
ABC fired Joy Behar from her job co-hosting "The View" after she made comments about Vice President Mike Pence's religious beliefs. [SEP] Joy Behar // the original panel members of the ABC daytime talk show "The View", which was co-created by Barbara Walters. Behar originally appeared only on the days when Walters was off, but she ultimately became a permanent co-host. Behar occasionally hosted a segment called "Joy's Comedy Corner" in which she presented both established and up-and-coming comedians. Behar had well-publicized disputes with Star Jones, a former co-host of the program. On March 27, 2006, Jones phoned into the show to discuss a recent operation that she had undergone. After talking with the show's co-hosts, Behar abruptly stated to Jones, "OK, Star. That's enough
ABC fired Joy Behar from her job co-hosting "The View" after she made comments about Vice President Mike Pence's religious beliefs. [SEP] The View (talk show) // In addition, Johnson & Johnson and Eggland's Best pulled their sponsorships from "The View", later followed by McCormick & Company, Snuggle, and Party City. On February 18, 2018, during a discussion about Omarosa's comments in regards to Vice President Mike Pence's religiosity, Behar remarked: "It's one thing to talk to Jesus, it's another thing when Jesus talks to you. That's called mental illness, if I'm not correct, hearing voices." While Behar clarified later in the show that she did not think Pence was mentally ill, her earlier remarks sparked criticism as well as a response from Pence himself, who accused
ABC fired Joy Behar from her job co-hosting "The View" after she made comments about Vice President Mike Pence's religious beliefs. [SEP] The View (talk show) // episode that she was leaving "The View" to join "Fox & Friends" and that it was her last day on the show. Behar's final show, a "This is Your Life"-style tribute to her, aired on August 9. On July 15, 2013, Walters announced that television personality Jenny McCarthy would become a permanent co-host. McCarthy made her debut as co-host on September 9 on the premiere episode of season 17. On May 13, Walters confirmed on air that she would be retiring as a co-host of the show and from ABC News in May 2014, but would continue as an executive
ABC fired Joy Behar from her job co-hosting "The View" after she made comments about Vice President Mike Pence's religious beliefs. [SEP] The View (talk show) // frequent guest co-host and comedian Michelle Collins would join the series as a permanent co-host for the season 19. On July 15, it was announced that Wallace was being let go at the conclusion of season 18. On August 25, 2015, it was announced that original co-host Behar was going to be returning as a permanent co-host, while actress Candace Cameron Bure and "Good Morning America Weekend" anchor Paula Faris would be joining Behar, Goldberg, Raven-Symoné, and Collins on the panel for season 19. It marked the first time in the series' history that it had six permanent co-hosts as
ABC fired Joy Behar from her job co-hosting "The View" after she made comments about Vice President Mike Pence's religious beliefs. [SEP] Joy Behar: Say Anything! // 16, 2011. The show was hosted by Joy Behar, who is one of the five co-hosts of "The View". The show originally aired in the 9PM eastern slot/8PM central with encore presentations at 12AM and 5AM eastern, but was moved to 10PM eastern in January 2011 with encore presentations at 3AM eastern. The show aired new episodes Monday through Friday, while the shows on Saturday and Sunday were reruns. The show's format was generally an interview/discussion setting where Joy Behar and her panel of guests discussed current events in pop culture, politics, and general media happenings. Guests were also often
ABC fired Joy Behar from her job co-hosting "The View" after she made comments about Vice President Mike Pence's religious beliefs. [SEP] Joy Behar // doing this?' There are other things on my plate I want to do — I've been writing a play, I've been neglecting my standup". Her last show was on August 9, 2013 in which the program staged a "This is Your Life" style tribute to Behar. After departing in 2013, Behar continued to guest co-host throughout 2014 and 2015. On August 25, 2015, ABC announced that Behar would return as a regular co-host starting with the premiere of the 19th season on September 8, 2015. Behar was quoted as saying, "Just when I thought I was out, they pulled me
ABC fired Joy Behar from her job co-hosting "The View" after she made comments about Vice President Mike Pence's religious beliefs. [SEP] Joy Behar: Say Anything! // Huffington and Valerie Bertinelli. Her "View" Co-hosts Whoopi Goldberg, Sherri Shepherd, Elisabeth Hasselbeck, and former co-host Star Jones, also appeared. During its HLN run, The Joy Behar Show was not successful in comparison to other cable news shows of its format. A ratings snapshot taken February 11, 2010 revealed Behar as the fourth highest rated show in its timeslot, well over two million viewers behind Sean Hannity. On June 11, 2012, Behar signed a deal with Current TV to do a similar show, now shortened to just "Joy Behar", but with a more political slant. Although the series debuted in
Measles outbreak kills more than 1,200 in Madagascar. [SEP] Eradication of infectious diseases // maintaining indefinite control was commissioned in 2009 by the WHO and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. In 2013, measles deaths globally were down to 145,700. As of mid-2013, measles elimination in many areas is stalling. "This year, measles and rubella outbreaks are occurring in many areas of the world where people have no immunity to these viruses. The reasons people are unvaccinated range from lack of access to vaccines in areas of insecurity, to poor performing health systems, to vaccine refusals. We need to address each of these challenges if we’re going to meet global measles and rubella elimination
Measles outbreak kills more than 1,200 in Madagascar. [SEP] Eradication of infectious diseases // had one major outbreak of measles originating from an amusement park in California of a variant of the virus circulating in the Philippines in 2014. From this there have been 113 individual measles cases and one death (out of the total of 189 cases in the U.S. in 2015). The WHO region of the Americas declared on 27 September 2016 it had eliminated measles. The last confirmed endemic case of measles in the Americas was in Brazil in July 2015. May 2017 saw a return of measles to the US after an outbreak in Minnesota among unvaccinated children. The WHO
Measles outbreak kills more than 1,200 in Madagascar. [SEP] Measles // population in the 1850s. In 1875, measles killed over 40,000 Fijians, approximately one-third of the population. In the 19th century, the disease killed 50% of the Andamanese population. Seven to eight million children are thought to have died from measles each year before the vaccine was introduced. In 1954, the virus causing the disease was isolated from a 13-year-old boy from the United States, David Edmonston, and adapted and propagated on chick embryo tissue culture. To date, 21 strains of the measles virus have been identified. While at Merck, Maurice Hilleman developed the first successful vaccine. Licensed vaccines to prevent
Measles outbreak kills more than 1,200 in Madagascar. [SEP] Pandemic // Before the vaccine was introduced in 1963, there were an estimated 3–4 million cases in the U.S. each year. Measles killed around 200 million people worldwide over the last 150 years. In 2000 alone, measles killed some 777,000 worldwide out of 40 million cases globally. Measles is an endemic disease, meaning that it has been continually present in a community, and many people develop resistance. In populations that have not been exposed to measles, exposure to a new disease can be devastating. In 1529, a measles outbreak in Cuba killed two-thirds of the natives who had previously survived smallpox. The
Measles outbreak kills more than 1,200 in Madagascar. [SEP] Measles // 142 measles-related fatalities. In the Naga Self-Administered Zone in a remote northern region of Myanmar, at least 40 children died during a measles outbreak in August 2016 that was probably caused by lack of vaccination in an area of poor health infrastructure. Estimates based on modern molecular biology place the emergence of measles as a human disease sometime after 500 AD (the former speculation that the Antonine Plague of 165–180 AD was caused by measles is now discounted). The first systematic description of measles, and its distinction from smallpox and chickenpox, is credited to the Persian physician Rhazes (860–932), who
Measles outbreak kills more than 1,200 in Madagascar. [SEP] Measles // birth of children. In communities which generate insufficient new hosts the disease will die out. This concept was first recognized in measles by Bartlett in 1957, who referred to the minimum number supporting measles as the critical community size (CCS). Analysis of outbreaks in island communities suggested that the CCS for measles is around 250,000. To achieve herd immunity, more than 95% of the community must be vaccinated due to the ease with which measles is transmitted from person to person. The disease was eliminated from the Americas in 2016. In 2011, the WHO estimated that 158,000 deaths were caused
Measles outbreak kills more than 1,200 in Madagascar. [SEP] Measles // and medications to control the fever. Antibiotics may be used if a secondary bacterial infection such as bacterial pneumonia occurs. Vitamin A supplementation is also recommended in the developing world. Measles affects about 20 million people a year, primarily in the developing areas of Africa and Asia. No other vaccine-preventable disease causes as many deaths. In 1980, 2.6 million people died of it, and in 1990, 545,000 died; by 2014, global vaccination programs had reduced the number of deaths from measles to 73,000. The risk of death among those infected is usually 0.2%, but may be up to 10% in
Measles outbreak kills more than 1,200 in Madagascar. [SEP] Epidemiology of measles // public that their program was indeed safe. Speculation arose as to whether or not new needles were being used. By mid-October, there were at least 940 recorded cases, and four deaths. In early 2010, there was a serious outbreak of measles in the Philippines with 742 cases, leaving four unvaccinated children dead in the capital city of Manila. As of May 2011, over 17,000 cases of measles have so far been reported from France between January 2008 and April 2011, including 2 deaths in 2010 and 6 deaths in 2011. Over 7,500 of these cases fell in the first three
Measles outbreak kills more than 1,200 in Madagascar. [SEP] Melanie's Marvelous Measles // eradicated the disease from this country by 2000, 'hundreds of thousands of kids got measles every year'... The CDC claims that, if exposed, 90% of unvaccinated people who come in contact with an infected person will get the disease. 'And for 1 out of every 1,000 children who contract it, the disease is fatal.'" "The World Health Organization says measles is 'one of the leading causes of death among young children even though a safe and cost-effective vaccine is available'. There are about 140,000 deaths a year, mostly in poor countries. In Australia measles deaths are now rare because the
Measles outbreak kills more than 1,200 in Madagascar. [SEP] Epidemiology of measles // measles at the time of death and died from giant cell pneumonia caused by the disease. There have been growing concerns that the epidemic could spread to London and infect many more people due to poor MMR uptake, prompting the Department of Health to set up a mass vaccination campaign targeted at one million school children throughout England. In late 2013, it was reported in the Philippines that 6,497 measles cases occurred which resulted in 23 deaths. In 2014 many unvaccinated US citizens visiting the Philippines, and other countries, contracted measles, resulting in 288 cases being recorded in the United
The common allergy drug Benadryl can be used to treat rattlesnake bites. [SEP] Urushiol-induced contact dermatitis // and generally making it more vulnerable", and is only useful for secondary treatment (not for cleaning urushiol from the skin, which should be done with cold water). People who have had a prior systemic reaction may be able to prevent subsequent exposure from turning systemic by avoiding heat and excitation of the circulatory system and applying moderate cold to any infected skin with biting pain. Antihistamine and hydrocortisone creams, or oral antihistamines in severe cases, can alleviate the symptoms of a developed rash. Nonprescription oral diphenhydramine (U.S. trade name Benadryl) is the most commonly suggested antihistamine. Topical formulations containing diphenhydramine
The common allergy drug Benadryl can be used to treat rattlesnake bites. [SEP] Benadryl // sleepiness. The product is not recommended for use in children under the age of six where it has caused fatalities. In 2014, the FDA posted a warning about swallowing Benadryl gel products that were meant to be used topically. The warning stated that the relatively high levels of diphenhydramine in the gel could cause confusion and loss of consciousness. Benadryl Benadryl is a brand name for a number of different antihistamine medications used to stop allergies. In the United States and Canada, it is the first-generation antihistamine diphenhydramine. Some products marketed in Australia and New Zealand as a cough medicine
The common allergy drug Benadryl can be used to treat rattlesnake bites. [SEP] Rattlesnake // is often intense, increasing with the ensuing edema. Children generally experience more severe symptoms because they receive a larger amount of venom per unit of body mass. Antivenin, often referred to as antivenom, is commonly used to treat the effects of local and systemic pit viper envenomations. The first step in the production of crotaline antivenin is collecting ("milking") the venom of a live rattlesnake—usually from the western diamondback ("Crotalus atrox"), eastern diamondback ("Crotalus adamanteus"), South American rattlesnake ("Crotalus durissis terrificus"), or fer-de-lance ("Bothrops atrox"). The extracted venom is then diluted and injected into horses, goats, or sheep, whose immune
The common allergy drug Benadryl can be used to treat rattlesnake bites. [SEP] Antivenom // if otherwise indicated. Although it is a popular myth that a person allergic to horses "cannot" be given antivenom, the side effects are manageable, and antivenom should be given as rapidly as the side effects can be managed. In the U.S., the only approved antivenom for pit viper (rattlesnake, copperhead and water moccasin) snakebite is based on a purified product made in sheep known as CroFab. It was approved by the FDA in October, 2000. U.S. coral snake antivenom is no longer manufactured, and remaining stocks of in-date antivenom for coral snakebite expired in the Fall of 2009, leaving the
The common allergy drug Benadryl can be used to treat rattlesnake bites. [SEP] Rattlesnake // front legs and head. Horses generally receive bites on the muzzle, and cattle on their tongues and muzzles. If a domesticated animal is bitten, the hair around the bite should be removed, so the wound can be clearly seen. The crotaline Fab antivenin has been shown to be effective in the treatment of canine rattlesnake bites. Symptoms include swelling, slight bleeding, sensitivity, shaking, and anxiety. Aztec paintings, Central American temples, and the great burial mounds in the southeastern United States are frequently adorned with depictions of rattlesnakes, often within the symbols and emblems of the most powerful deities. The Feathered
The common allergy drug Benadryl can be used to treat rattlesnake bites. [SEP] Snakebite // species. Pharmaceutical companies which produce antivenom target their products against the species native to a particular area. Although some people may develop serious adverse reactions to antivenom, such as anaphylaxis, in emergency situations this is usually treatable and hence the benefit outweighs the potential consequences of not using antivenom. Giving adrenaline (epinephrine) to prevent adverse effect to antivenom before they occur might be reasonable where they occur commonly. Antihistamines do not appear to provide any benefit in preventing adverse reactions. The following treatments, while once recommended, are considered of no use or harmful, including tourniquets, incisions, suction, application of cold,
The common allergy drug Benadryl can be used to treat rattlesnake bites. [SEP] Crotalus scutulatus // the United States over the previous 50 years, CroFab antivenom (approved by the US Food and Drug Administration in October 2001) uses Mojave rattlesnake venom A (in addition to venom from three other species) in its manufacture, making it particularly effective for treatment of venom A Mojave rattlesnake bites. Antibodies in CroFab produced by the other three species' venoms effectively neutralize Mojave rattlesnake venom B. All rattlesnake venoms are complex cocktails of enzymes and other proteins that vary greatly in composition and effects, not only between species, but also between geographic populations within the same species. "C. scutulatus" is widely
The common allergy drug Benadryl can be used to treat rattlesnake bites. [SEP] Diphenhydramine // properties, and has been used as such in people allergic to common local anesthetics such as lidocaine. Diphenhydramine is effective in treatment of allergies. , it was the most commonly used antihistamine for acute allergic reactions in the emergency department. By injection it is often used in addition to epinephrine for anaphylaxis. Its use for this purpose had not been properly studied . Its use is only recommended once acute symptoms have improved. Topical formulations of diphenhydramine are available, including creams, lotions, gels, and sprays. These are used to relieve itching and have the advantage of causing fewer systemic effects
The common allergy drug Benadryl can be used to treat rattlesnake bites. [SEP] Sominex // For example, diphenhydramine is sold under the brand name Benadryl as an anti-histamine for use against allergies. Tylenol PM contains diphenhydramine in addition to acetaminophen for the purpose of inducing sleep and reducing pain and/or fever. Promethazine is marketed by the brand name Phenergan for use against allergy symptoms and motion sickness in the US, where a prescription for promethazine is required. It is also available in the form of a syrup either alone or in combination with one or more of several other active ingredients including codeine and dextromethorphan, for the treatment of allergy symptoms, cough, or cold, among
The common allergy drug Benadryl can be used to treat rattlesnake bites. [SEP] Benadryl // Benadryl Benadryl is a brand name for a number of different antihistamine medications used to stop allergies. In the United States and Canada, it is the first-generation antihistamine diphenhydramine. Some products marketed in Australia and New Zealand as a cough medicine with the Benadryl name contain diphenhydramine. In the United Kingdom, the active component of Benadryl is often the antihistamine acrivastine or cetirizine. Benadryl is available for oral or topical use. It is marketed without a prescription by Johnson & Johnson subsidiary McNeil Consumer Healthcare. Before 2007, Benadryl was marketed by Pfizer Consumer Healthcare (originally Warner–Lambert). Diphenhydramine can also cause
A brain injury diagnosed with a single drop of blood [SEP] Traumatic brain injury // maintaining adequate blood flow to the brain, and controlling raised intracranial pressure (ICP), since high ICP deprives the brain of badly needed blood flow and can cause deadly brain herniation. Other methods to prevent damage include management of other injuries and prevention of seizures. Some data supports the use of hyperbaric oxygen therapy to improve outcomes. Neuroimaging is helpful but not flawless in detecting raised ICP. A more accurate way to measure ICP is to place a catheter into a ventricle of the brain, which has the added benefit of allowing cerebrospinal fluid to drain, releasing pressure in the skull.
A brain injury diagnosed with a single drop of blood [SEP] Complications of traumatic brain injury // of the injury and is characterized by worsening neurological outcome, impaired consciousness, behavioral changes, ataxia (lack of coordination or balance), incontinence, or signs of elevated ICP. Any damage to the head or brain usually results in some damage to the vascular system, which provides blood to the cells of the brain. The body can repair small blood vessels, but damage to larger ones can result in serious complications. Damage to one of the major arteries leading to the brain can cause a stroke, either through bleeding from the artery or through the formation of a blood clot at the site
A brain injury diagnosed with a single drop of blood [SEP] Kenneth Kwong // that blood oxygenation levels could be measured by NMR methods. Later groundbreaking experiments by Ogawa, et al., and by Turner had shown that oxygen depletion led to significant drops in MRI signal changes in large veins and the brain cortex itself, respectively, via a magnetic susceptibility mechanism analogous to that used by Belliveau with exogenous tracers, but in this case using deoxygenated blood itself as the contrast agent. At the same time, methods to directly measure brain perfusion using spin inverted water (arterial spin labeling) were pioneered in animal models by John Detre and Alan Koretsky. All of this was
A brain injury diagnosed with a single drop of blood [SEP] Cerebral circulation // much blood (a condition known as hyperemia) can raise intracranial pressure (ICP), which can compress and damage delicate brain tissue. Too little blood flow (ischemia) results if blood flow to the brain is below 18 to 20 ml per 100 g per minute, and tissue death occurs if flow dips below 8 to 10 ml per 100 g per minute. In brain tissue, a biochemical cascade known as the ischemic cascade is triggered when the tissue becomes ischemic, potentially resulting in damage to and the death of brain cells. Medical professionals must take steps to maintain proper CBF in patients
A brain injury diagnosed with a single drop of blood [SEP] Concussion // blood test known as the Brain Trauma Indicator was approved in the United States in 2018 and may be able to rule out the risk of intracranial bleeding and thus the need for a CT scan. Concussion may be under-diagnosed because of the lack of the highly noticeable signs and symptoms while athletes may minimize their injuries to remain in the competition. A retrospective survey in 2005 suggested that more than 88% of concussions are unrecognized. Diagnosis can be complex because concussion shares symptoms with other conditions. For example, post-concussion symptoms such as cognitive problems may be misattributed to brain
A brain injury diagnosed with a single drop of blood [SEP] Subarachnoid hemorrhage // a significant trauma has occurred. People with moderate and severe traumatic brain injury who have SAH when admitted to a hospital have as much as twice the risk of dying as those who do not. They also have a higher risk of severe disability and persistent vegetative state, and traumatic SAH has been correlated with other markers of poor outcome such as post traumatic epilepsy, hydrocephalus, and longer stays in the intensive care unit. More than 90 percent of people with traumatic subarachnoid bleeding and a Glasgow Coma Score over 12 have a good outcome. There is also modest evidence
A brain injury diagnosed with a single drop of blood [SEP] Sports-related traumatic brain injury // a fracture. CT or MRI detect any bleeding in the skull. The Glasgow Coma Scale classifies the severity of brain injury, with a score of 15 as normal and progressively lower scores indicating greater neurologic injury to the brain. After testing is completed, doctors will make an estimate on the extent of the injury and possible recovery time. If cranial bleeding and swelling is minor, a short hospital stay (up to a week) is needed with close observation. If bleeding is severe, the player may be treated as a patient with a severe head injury (with surgery as the main
A brain injury diagnosed with a single drop of blood [SEP] Primary and secondary brain injury // including subarachnoid hemorrhage, stroke, and traumatic brain injury and involves metabolic cascades. Secondary injury can result from complications of the injury. These include ischemia (insufficient blood flow); cerebral hypoxia (insufficient oxygen in the brain); hypotension (low blood pressure); cerebral edema (swelling of the brain); changes in the blood flow to the brain; and raised intracranial pressure (the pressure within the skull). If intracranial pressure gets too high, it can lead to deadly brain herniation, in which parts of the brain are squeezed past structures in the skull. Other secondary injury include hypercapnia (excessive carbon dioxide levels in the blood), acidosis
A brain injury diagnosed with a single drop of blood [SEP] Head injury // in the brain. Computed tomography (CT) has become the diagnostic modality of choice for head trauma due to its accuracy, reliability, safety, and wide availability. The changes in microcirculation, impaired auto-regulation, cerebral edema, and axonal injury start as soon as head injury occurs and manifest as clinical, biochemical, and radiological changes. An MRI may also be conducted to determine if someone has abnormal growths or tumors in the brain or to determine if the patient has had a stroke. Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) is the most widely used scoring system used to assess the level of severity of a brain
A brain injury diagnosed with a single drop of blood [SEP] Intracranial hemorrhage // a blood vessel within the skull is ruptured or leaks. It can result from physical trauma (as occurs in head injury) or nontraumatic causes (as occurs in hemorrhagic stroke) such as a ruptured aneurysm. Anticoagulant therapy, as well as disorders with blood clotting can heighten the risk that an intracranial hemorrhage will occur. CT scan (computed tomography) is the definitive tool for accurate diagnosis of an intracranial hemorrhage. In difficult cases, a 3T-MRI scan can also be used. When ICP is increased the heart rate may be decreased. Types of intracranial hemorrhage are roughly grouped into intra-axial and extra-axial. The
2007 mass shooting survivor copes with 300 pellets of lead. [SEP] Cartridge (firearms) // 00 Buck: 9 lead pellets (, 12 pellets for Magnum load) 0 Buck: 12 lead pellets () 1 Buck: 16 lead pellets (, 20 pellets for Magnum load) 4 Buck: 27 lead pellets () The Hague Convention of 1899 bans the use of expanding projectiles against the military forces of other nations. Some countries accept this as a blanket ban against the use of expanding projectiles against anyone, while others use JSP and HP against non-military forces such as terrorists and criminals Ammunition types are listed numerically. Snake shot (AKA: bird short, rat shot and dust shot) refers to handgun
2007 mass shooting survivor copes with 300 pellets of lead. [SEP] Metals Treatment Technologies // up in 2006 to "Support Henry Horton State Park by assisting with park programs,etc..." MT2 removed more than 100 tons of lead shot from their award-winning Trap and Skeet Range. The top six to eight inches of soil were harvested, dried and then separated from the lead shot. This method prevented most seepage of lead into the ground. Recent national bullet shortages have resulted in higher prices for consumers, and lower ammunition availability for the military. This need has provided a significant market for MT2. There is an estimated 15 years worth of lead bullets in the ground in American
2007 mass shooting survivor copes with 300 pellets of lead. [SEP] Lead poisoning // this time is nearly every caliber smaller than 50BMG (including the popular .223 Remington, .308 Winchester and .30-06 to name just a few). Some lead-based bullets are resistant to fragmentation, offering hunters the ability to clean game animals with negligible risk of including lead fragments in prepared meat. Other bullets are prone to fragmentation and exacerbate the risk of lead ingestion from prepared meat. In practice, use of a non-fragmenting bullet and proper cleaning of the game animal's wound can eliminate the risk of lead ingestion from eating game; however, isolating such practice to experimentally determine its association with blood
2007 mass shooting survivor copes with 300 pellets of lead. [SEP] Shot (pellet) // Lead shot is also often used as ballast in various situations, especially where a dense, pourable weight is required. Generally, small shot is best for these applications, as it can be poured more like a liquid. Completely round shot is not required. When used as a pourable/mouldable weight, the shot may be left loose, or mixed with a bonding agent such as epoxy to contain and stabilize the pellets after they are poured. Some applications are: Lead shot-related waterfowl poisonings were first documented in the US in the 1880s; by 1919, the spent lead pellets from waterfowl hunting was positively
2007 mass shooting survivor copes with 300 pellets of lead. [SEP] Green bullet // Studies by the U.S. CDC suggest blood lead levels are correlated with self-reported consumption of game meat. October 11, 2013 Governor Jerry Brown of California signed into law AB 711 Hunting: nonlead ammunition. Cost reductions from conversion to green ammo are estimated at "$2.5 million required for waste removal at each outdoor firing range as well as the $100 thousand annual costs for lead contamination monitoring". Two green ammunition cartridges are the 5.56×45mm NATO M855A1 and the MK281 40 mm grenade. Switching to the 5.56 mm green bullet, the M855A1 Enhanced Performance Round, or EPR, in 2010 has eliminated nearly
2007 mass shooting survivor copes with 300 pellets of lead. [SEP] 2016–17 Kashmir unrest // region; she was admitted to a hospital in Srinagar. Human Rights Watch strongly condemned the use of pellet guns on protesters and called it a failure of the authorities to respect basic human rights. According to a Sky News report, the Indian paramilitary fired up to 3,800 cartridges between July and August, each containing 450 metallic balls, totaling up to 1.7 million pellets. A team of three eye-specialists from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences in New Delhi, headed by ophthalmologist Prof Sudarshan K. Kumar, reached Kashmir to help the local doctors in treating the pellet gun injuries. After
2007 mass shooting survivor copes with 300 pellets of lead. [SEP] Lead // non-battery products, including gasoline, paints, solders, and water systems. Particulate control devices were installed in coal-fired power plants to capture lead emissions. Lead use was further curtailed by the European Union's 2003 Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive. A large drop in lead deposition occurred in the Netherlands after the 1993 national ban on use of lead shot for hunting and sport shooting: from 230 tonnes in 1990 to 47.5 tonnes in 1995. In the United States, the permissible exposure limit for lead in the workplace, comprising metallic lead, inorganic lead compounds, and lead soaps, was set at 50 μg/m over
2007 mass shooting survivor copes with 300 pellets of lead. [SEP] Handloading // 25 lb. bag of lead shot can only reload approximately 355 shotshells. At 7/8 oz. per shotshell, a 25 lb. of leadshot can reload 457 shotshells. At 24 grams per shotshell, a 25 lb of leadshot can reload approximately 472 shotshells. Stretching the number of hulls that it is possible to reload from an industry standard 25 lb. bag of lead shot by 117 shells has significantly helped mitigate the large increase in the price of lead shot. That this change has also resulted in minimal changes to scores in the shooting sports such as skeet and trap has only
2007 mass shooting survivor copes with 300 pellets of lead. [SEP] Shot (pellet) // after elevated levels of lead were found in waterfowl, small birds, mammals and frogs in their vicinity. Approved alternatives while hunting migratory waterfowl include pellets manufactured from steel, tungsten-iron, tungsten-polymer, tungsten-nickel-iron, and bismuth-tin in place of lead shot. In the United States, UK, Canada, and many western European countries (France as of 2006), all shot used for hunting migratory waterfowl must now be non-toxic, and therefore may not contain any lead. Steel was one of the first widely used lead alternatives that the ammunition industry turned to. But steel is one hundred times harder than lead, with only two-thirds its
2007 mass shooting survivor copes with 300 pellets of lead. [SEP] Green bullet // 2,000 tons of lead from the waste stream. U.S. Army representatives at a 2013 House Armed Services Committee hearing have credited the 5.56mm M855A1 Enhanced Performance Round “close to” those of a 7.62mm in its performance capabilities. The longer, less dense M855A1 bullet must be seated deeper than the lead core bullet it replaced to maintain the same exterior cartridge dimensions required for reliable functioning in self-loading firearms; and higher pressure is required to obtain the same bullet velocity with reduced propellant volume. Increased pressure causes gas port erosion producing a higher cyclic rate of automatic fire making jamming malfunctions
China investigates after vaccine suspected in seven deaths. [SEP] Influenza A virus subtype H7N9 // April 2013, and died on 7 April 2013". As of April 9, a "total of 24 cases have been laboratory confirmed with influenza A(H7N9) virus in China, including seven deaths, 14 severe cases and three mild cases." In Jiangsu, more than "600 close contacts of the confirmed cases are being closely monitored." In an update on April 11, Xinhua reported 38 identified cases and 10 deaths. According to the WHO, of the 28 patients who had survived their infections, 19 illnesses were severe and 9 were mild. The WHO said they were monitoring 760 close contacts and so far had
China investigates after vaccine suspected in seven deaths. [SEP] Influenza A virus subtype H7N9 // 28, four provinces, Zhejiang, Shandong, Jiangxi, and Fujian, reported new cases, raising the total number of cases in mainland China to 125 with 24 deaths. On May 2, there were 127 confirmed cases in mainland China, of which 27 were fatal, and including the case in Taiwan there were a total of 128 cases worldwide. On May 6, in a weekly update, China's Ministry of Health announced there were 129 confirmed cases in mainland China with 31 deaths, for a total of 130 cases worldwide. On May 7, Hong Kong's Centre for Health Protection reported that there were 130 confirmed
China investigates after vaccine suspected in seven deaths. [SEP] Influenza A virus subtype H7N9 // deaths. On April 24, a case was confirmed by the Taiwanese Government, marking the first case outside of China. On April 25, the National Health and Family Planning Commission said that a total of 109 H7N9 cases had been reported within mainland China, including 23 deaths. However, Anne Kelso, director of the WHO Collaborating Centre for Reference and Research on Influenza, VIDRL, Australia, reported that researchers had seen a "dramatic slowdown" in human cases in Shanghai after the city's live poultry markets were closed on April 6. On the following day, cases in mainland China rose to 118. On April
China investigates after vaccine suspected in seven deaths. [SEP] Wang Keqin // his journalism. On March 17, 2010, after six months of investigation, Wang published a story in "China Economic Times" exposing how a "gross failure" to refrigerate vaccines in the Shanxi province caused four children to die and 74 others to become ill. He reported that the vaccines were deliberately left unrefrigerated in order to stop the labels from peeling off. Shanxi officials claimed that Wang's story was incorrect, and within hours of publication, the report had been downplayed on other media outlets following orders from the Propaganda Department of the Communist Party of China. The chief editor, publisher, and Communist
China investigates after vaccine suspected in seven deaths. [SEP] Avian influenza // thought that infections may pick up again when the weather turns cooler in China. In the four years from early 2013 to early 2017, 916 lab-confirmed human cases of H7N9 were reported to WHO. On 9 January 2017, the National Health and Family Planning Commission of China reported to WHO 106 cases which occurred from late November through December. 29, 2016. The cases are reported from Jiangsu (52), Zhejiang (21), Anhui (14), Guangdong (14), Shanghai (2), Fujian (2) and Hunan (1). 80 of these 106 persons have visited live poultry markets. Of these cases, there have been 35 deaths. In
China investigates after vaccine suspected in seven deaths. [SEP] Influenza A virus subtype H7N9 // the Chinese Ministry of Health reported 18 positive cases, death toll still at 6. Two days later, positive cases rose to 24 and one death case from Shanghai brought the death toll to 7. On April 9, the Chinese National Health and Family Planning Commission announced "an additional three laboratory-confirmed cases of human infection with influenza A(H7N9) virus." The new patients "are two patients from Jiangsu – an 85-year-old man who became ill on 28 March 2013" and a "25-year-old pregnant woman who became ill on 30 March 2013" and "a 64-year-old man from Shanghai who became ill on 1
China investigates after vaccine suspected in seven deaths. [SEP] Influenza A virus subtype H7N9 // had been confirmed, with 17 deaths. On April 18, China reported 87 confirmed cases. On April 20, there were 96 confirmed cases, of which 18 were fatal. On the next day, confirmed cases rose to 102 and fatal cases to 20. On April 22, there were 104 cases with 21 deaths. On April 23, 3 more cases were reported in an update from the WHO. All of the newly reported cases were in older men from eastern China. Two cases came from the Zhejiang province and the third was from the Anhui province. Total cases count reached 108 with 22
China investigates after vaccine suspected in seven deaths. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic in Taiwan // surveillance, vaccination record database is linked with the National Health Insurance database to ensure that the incidence of neurological diseases (such as Guillain–Barré syndrome), cardiovascular disease, adverse pregnancy outcome, stroke and anaphylaxis does not exceed the background incidence. By January 26, 2010, 1176 suspected vaccine-related adverse events have been reported, including 330 suspected serious adverse events and 35 deaths. Based on the number of vaccine doses administered, the incidence of adverse events and serious adverse events did not exceed the expected value. Vaccine Injury Compensation Program (VICP) committee is composed of a group of expert consultants with expertise in clinical
China investigates after vaccine suspected in seven deaths. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic in Asia // China's flu vaccine strategy is to stockpile enough vaccine for one per cent of her population by 1 October, as a preventive measure to encounter any vast outbreak of the flu. Liang said China would take more severe and effective preventive measures at its many gateways and educate the people on the H1N1, also known as swine flu. In early September 2009, China's State Food and Drug Administration granted approval to a homegrown swine flu vaccine, which producer Sinovac Biotech claims is effective after only one dose. On 4 January 2010, the Chinese Health Ministry announced that 659 deaths from
China investigates after vaccine suspected in seven deaths. [SEP] Agricultural policy // can’t blame China for substandard vaccines. I think there are substandard vaccines for influenza in poultry all over the world." In response to the same concerns, Reuters reports Hong Kong infectious disease expert Lo Wing-lok indicating that vaccines have to take top priority. Julie Hall, who is in charge of the WHO's outbreak response in China, claimed that China's vaccinations might be masking the virus. The BBC reported that Dr Wendy Barclay, a virologist at the University of Reading, UK said: "The Chinese have made a vaccine based on reverse genetics made with H5N1 antigens, and they have been using
Marijuana laced with fentanyl is a problem, and you can detect it if "weed smells like popcorn. [SEP] Lacing (drugs) // drug, but psychiatrist Dr Bill MacEwan believes that drug dealers in British Columbia are intentionally lacing cannabis with methamphetamine to make it more addictive. He had some psychiatric patients that claimed they only smoked pot but their drug tests were positive for methamphetamine use. The most common adulterants found in 1998 in samples in Rome, Italy were lidocaine and caffeine. Cocaine is sometimes mixed with methylamphetamine, methylphenidate, and ephedrine, but is usually mixed with non psychoactive chemicals such as mannitol, inositol, pectin, glucose, lactose, saccharin, white rice flour, and maltodextrin. Other local anesthetics such as procaine are very commonly used.
Marijuana laced with fentanyl is a problem, and you can detect it if "weed smells like popcorn. [SEP] Lacing (drugs) // 2 deaths, according to an alert from the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration. The emergence of fentanyl-laced cocaine has led to an increase in cocaine overdose fatalities in New York City. Though marijuana is less likely to be adulterated than hard drugs are, it still occurs, and has been reported in several countries. In the Netherlands two chemical analogs of Sildenafil (Viagra) were found in adulterated marijuana. In 2008, 30 German teenagers were hospitalized after the marijuana which they smoked was found to have been contaminated with lead (presumably metallic lead particles), which was added in order to
Marijuana laced with fentanyl is a problem, and you can detect it if "weed smells like popcorn. [SEP] Cannabis (drug) // visit. Most of the illicit drug emergency room visits involved multiple drugs. In 129,000 cases, cannabis was the only implicated drug. The short term effects of cannabis can be altered if it has been laced with opioid drugs such as heroin or fentanyl. The added drugs are meant to enhance the psychoactive properties, add to its weight, and increase profitability, despite the increased danger of overdose. Heavy, long-term exposure to marijuana may have biologically based physical, mental, behavioral and social health consequences and may be "associated with diseases of the liver (particularly with co-existing hepatitis C), lungs, heart, and vasculature".
Marijuana laced with fentanyl is a problem, and you can detect it if "weed smells like popcorn. [SEP] Club drug // earlier stated that marijuana is most often uncut and un-spiked, some dealers add PCP to marijuana (this is nicknamed "wet marijuana"), because adding this disassociative psychedelic to low-grade, low-THC marijuana can convert it into a cannabis that creates striking hallucinogenic effects. Drug researchers learned that some dealers were spiking marijuana when they tested US teens who stated that they had only used a single illegal drug (marijuana) and the teens tested positive for marijuana and PCP. Some dealers who have a very small quantity of MDMA powder to sell "spike" it with less expensive and easier to produce methamphetamine powder.
Marijuana laced with fentanyl is a problem, and you can detect it if "weed smells like popcorn. [SEP] USS Nimitz // at the National Institute on Drug Abuse say that it would probably be impossible to establish conclusively that any of the Nimitz crew had been smoking marijuana on the night of the crash because the test does not directly detect the component of marijuana smoke that acts on the brain. Because the metabolites may persist in the blood for many days, the test may detect marijuana that was used many days earlier long after the effects have worn off". As a result, President Ronald Reagan instituted a "Zero Tolerance" drug policy across all of the U.S. armed services, which started
Marijuana laced with fentanyl is a problem, and you can detect it if "weed smells like popcorn. [SEP] Popcorn // is that popcorn is second only to cocaine or heroin in terms of profit."" Popcorn smell has an unusually attractive quality for human beings. This is largely because it contains high levels of the chemicals 6-acetyl-2,3,4,5-tetrahydropyridine and 2-acetyl-1-pyrroline, very powerful aroma compounds that are used by food and other industries to make products that either smell like popcorn, bread, or other foods containing the compound in nature, or for other purposes. Popcorn as a breakfast cereal was consumed by Americans in the 1800s and generally consisted of popcorn with milk and a sweetener. Popcorn balls (popped kernels stuck together with
Marijuana laced with fentanyl is a problem, and you can detect it if "weed smells like popcorn. [SEP] Underage smoking in Australia // cannabis sativa. The hemp plant contains the active ingredient tetra-hydro-cannabinol (THC), which is a mind-altering chemical that creates a high when smoked. Marijuana is commonly smoked in hand-rolled cigarettes, pipes, or water pipes (bongs), however it can be used in vaporisers, turned into a tea, or used as an ingredient in foods as an edible. The THC in marijuana is responsible for changing how the brain works, by distorting how the mind perceives the world and making the heart beat faster. In particular marijuana is used to heighten perception, affect mood, and feel relaxed: it alters senses, sense of time,
Marijuana laced with fentanyl is a problem, and you can detect it if "weed smells like popcorn. [SEP] Urban legends about drugs // marijuana being actively smoked for several hours (often referred to as a "hotbox"). Hair testing, however, is a different matter, particularly with passive exposure to crack/cocaine, which can deposit onto hair and be readily incorporated into it. With regards to cannabis, however, typically only metabolites (produced by the body and thus not found in smoke) are tested rather than THC, so failure is unlikely to result from non-extreme passive exposure. Niacin, also known as Vitamin B3, is speciously claimed by some to "burn it out" of one's system when taken at high doses (250–500 mg per day). While some Internet
Marijuana laced with fentanyl is a problem, and you can detect it if "weed smells like popcorn. [SEP] Effects of cannabis // component of marijuana, tetrahydrocannabinol (THC)." Cannabis contaminated with "Salmonella muenchen" was positively correlated with dozens of cases of salmonellosis in 1981. "Thermophilic actinomycetes" were also found in cannabis. Exposure to marijuana may have biologically-based physical, mental, behavioral and social health consequences and is "associated with diseases of the liver (particularly with co-existing hepatitis C), lungs, heart, eyesight and vasculature" according to a 2013 literature review by Gordon and colleagues. The association with these diseases has only been reported in cases where people have smoked cannabis. The authors cautioned that "evidence is needed, and further research should be considered, to prove
Marijuana laced with fentanyl is a problem, and you can detect it if "weed smells like popcorn. [SEP] Urban legends about drugs // has been featured in several movies and television shows, such as "Seinfeld" and "The Big Bang Theory". Poppy seeds do contain trace amounts of opium alkaloids, including morphine. Poppy seed-filled "pastries" (such as hamantashen or kolaches), contain enough opiates to potentially cause a false positive test result, even when a fairly high cutoff level is used. However, drug tests rarely screen for the actual drug used; instead they detect metabolites or increased enzyme levels as markers indicative of drug use. When substance use has been established (and the drug type, i.e. opiate or amphetamine), one can then be tested to
Greece suggests EU buy patent rights for vaccines and coronavirus tests: FAZ. [SEP] Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus // risky. Not studying it is riskier." Dr. Zaki was fired from his job at the hospital as a result of bypassing the Saudi ministry of health in his announcement and sharing his sample and findings. At their annual meeting of the World Health Assembly in May 2013, WHO chief Margaret Chan declared that intellectual property, or patents on strains of new virus, should not impede nations from protecting their citizens by limiting scientific investigations. Deputy Health Minister Ziad Memish raised concerns that scientists who held the patent for the MERS-CoV virus would not allow other scientists to use patented material
Greece suggests EU buy patent rights for vaccines and coronavirus tests: FAZ. [SEP] Societal views on patents // developing country with options for obtaining needed medications under compulsory licensing or importation of cheaper versions of the drugs, even before patent expiration. In 2007 the government of Brazil declared Merck's efavirenz anti-retroviral drug a "public interest" medicine, and challenged Merck to negotiate lower prices with the government or have Brazil strip the patent by issuing a compulsory license. It is reported that Ghana, Tanzania, the Democratic Republic of Congo and Ethiopia have similar plans to produce generic antiviral drugs. Western pharmaceutical companies initially responded with legal challenges, but some have now promised to introduce alternative pricing structures for developing
Greece suggests EU buy patent rights for vaccines and coronavirus tests: FAZ. [SEP] Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus // and were therefore delaying the development of diagnostic tests. Erasmus MC responded that the patent application did not restrict public health research into MERS coronavirus, and that the virus and diagnostic tests were shipped—free of charge—to all that requested such reagents. There are a number of mapping efforts focused on tracking MERS coronavirus. On 2 May 2014, the Corona Map was launched to track the MERS coronavirus in realtime on the world map. The data is officially reported by WHO or the Ministry of Health of the respective country. HealthMap also tracks case reports with inclusion of news and social
Greece suggests EU buy patent rights for vaccines and coronavirus tests: FAZ. [SEP] Ian Frazer // medical company CSL, and later Merck, were sold partial patents. (CSL has the exclusive license to sell Gardasil in New Zealand and Australia, Merck the license elsewhere.) GlaxoSmithKline independently used the same VLP-approach to develop Cervarix, under a later US patent, licensing Frazer's intellectual property in 2005. Later in 1991 the research was presented at a US scientific meeting, and Frazer became Director of the Centre for Immunology and Cancer Research at the University of Queensland (later renamed The Diamantina Institute for Cancer, Immunology and Metabolic Medicine, where he held a personal chair as director). After three years in design,
Greece suggests EU buy patent rights for vaccines and coronavirus tests: FAZ. [SEP] Middle East respiratory syndrome // pneumonia and acute renal failure. After routine diagnostics failed to identify the causative agent, Zaki contacted Ron Fouchier, a leading virologist at the Erasmus Medical Center (EMC) in Rotterdam, the Netherlands, for advice. Fouchier sequenced the virus from a sample sent by Zaki. Fouchier used a broad-spectrum "pan-coronavirus" real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) method to test for distinguishing features of a number of known coronaviruses (such as OC43, 229R, NL63, and SARS-CoV), as well as for RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp), a gene conserved in all coronaviruses known to infect humans. While the screens for known coronaviruses were all negative, the
Greece suggests EU buy patent rights for vaccines and coronavirus tests: FAZ. [SEP] P. N. Rangarajan // Indian patents and the vaccine, reportedly cheaper to produce than conventional cell culture rabies vaccines, is being marketed by Indian Immunologicals Limited, under the brand name, "Dinarab". His studies have been documented by way of a number of articles of which many have been listed by online article repositories such as Google Scholar and ResearchGate. Rangarajan's work has attracted research by other scientists and he has delivered invited speeches or keynote addresses including the lecture on "Gene Regulation in Eukaryotes: Diversity in general Transcription factors" at IIT Madras and the address on "Transcriptional interference in the methylotrophic yeast, Pichia pastoris"
Greece suggests EU buy patent rights for vaccines and coronavirus tests: FAZ. [SEP] Government Pharmaceutical Organization // efavirenz pills in 2018, allowing it to serve export markets as well as domestic. The Philippines alone will order about 300,000 bottles of efavirenz for 51 million baht. The GPO is permitted to produce efavirenz and two other patented medications by having sought compulsory licensing (CL) under the provisions of the WTO agreement on intellectual property, the Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPs). Under a compulsory license, an individual or company seeking to use another's intellectual property can do so—for good reasons—without seeking the rights holder's consent, and pays the rights holder a set fee for the
Greece suggests EU buy patent rights for vaccines and coronavirus tests: FAZ. [SEP] Bovine coronavirus // nasal washes – which identifies the viral antigen. The haemagglutination inhibition test can be used to establish the strain of coronavirus. Animals should be treated symptomatically. The disease can be controlled by vaccinating the dam with a live vaccine (ATCvet code QI02) whilst she is pregnant as this provides antibodies to the virus in the colostrum. Additional management factors such as ensuring adequate colostrum intake in newborn calves, using appropriate hygiene methods and ventilation of housing reduce disease incidence. Bovine coronavirus Bovine coronavirus (BCV) is as a member of the Coronaviridae family which are enveloped, single-stranded, positive-sense RNA viruses with
Greece suggests EU buy patent rights for vaccines and coronavirus tests: FAZ. [SEP] Janssen Biotech // detect the rabies virus. In 1998 the company launched its top-selling monoclonal antibody Remicade (infliximab) for its first FDA approved indication in Crohn's disease. Subsequently, Remicade's market has expanded with approvals for rheumatoid arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis, psoriatic arthritis, ulcerative colitis, and pediatric Crohn's disease. Remicade was approved for plaque psoriasis in September 2006. Centocor also markets ReoPro (abciximab), a biologic agent indicated as an adjunct to coronary angioplasty (PTCA). In 2009, the U.S. FDA approved Simponi, a human monoclonal antibody for treatment for arthritis, which was co-developed with Medarex, Inc. Janssen Biotech Janssen Biotech, Inc., formerly Centocor Biotech, Inc., is
Greece suggests EU buy patent rights for vaccines and coronavirus tests: FAZ. [SEP] Bavarian Nordic // with the NIAID on the development of a filovirus vaccine for Ebola and Marburg hemorrhagic fever diseases. In October 2014, following a successful pre-clinical demonstration of the combination vaccine regimen of its multivalent MVA-BN Filovirus vaccine and Crucell/Janssen's AdVac technology based on adenoviral vectors, Bavarian Nordic joined efforts with Crucell Holland B.V., one of the Janssen Pharmaceuticals Companies of Johnson & Johnson to develop and manufacture this vaccine regimen intended for emergency use to help contain the outbreak in West Africa. In January 2015, the company had produced the first 400,000 doses of the vaccine and the first clinical trial
“Fish tank additive may treat coronavirus.” [SEP] Disease in ornamental fish // as an antiseptic and fungicide, and will not damage beneficial bacteria, though ordinary table salt may contain additives which can harm fish. Alternatives include aquarium salt, Kosher salt or rock salt. Gradually raising the temperature of the tank may kill certain parasites, though some diseased fish may be harmed and certain species can not tolerate high temperatures. Aeration is necessary since less oxygen is dissolved in warm water. There are a number of effective treatments for many stains of bacterial infections. Three of the most common are tetracycline, penicillin and naladixic acid. Salt baths are another effective treatment. Disease in
“Fish tank additive may treat coronavirus.” [SEP] Vibrio anguillarum // the gastric fluid in the upper intestine of fish will inactivate components in the vaccine. However, previous research examining resistance found that when Atlantic cod fry were administered Carnobacterium divergens the fry became resistant to infection by "V. anguillarum". Other treatment options include antibiotics such as oxytetracycline, erythromycin, chloramphenicol, triomethoprim, and carbencillin. Antibiotic resistant strains of "Vibrio anguillarum" are already present due to the high amounts of antibiotic required for treatment. The use of probiotics bacteria such as "Roseobacter, Pseudomonas fluorescens, and Kocuria" are able to prevent vibriosis in aquaculture. The economic wellbeing of larviculture and aquacultural markets worldwide can
“Fish tank additive may treat coronavirus.” [SEP] Fish oil // aggressive prostate cancer with higher blood levels of combined EPA and DHA. Some evidence indicated an association between high blood levels of omega-3 fatty acids and an increased prostate cancer risk. Fish oil supplement studies have failed to support claims of preventing heart attacks or strokes. Earlier, in 2007, the American Heart Association had recommended the consumption of 1 gram of fish oil daily, preferably by eating fish, for patients with coronary artery disease, but cautioned pregnant and nursing women to avoid eating fish with high potential for mercury contaminants including mackerel, shark, and swordfish. (Optimal dosage was related to
“Fish tank additive may treat coronavirus.” [SEP] Dietary supplement // affect the risk of death, cancer or heart disease. Furthermore, studies of fish oil supplements have failed to support claims of preventing heart attacks or strokes. In 2017, the American Heart Association issued a science advisory stating that it could not recommend use of omega-3 fish oil supplements for primary prevention of cardiovascular disease or stroke, although it reaffirmed supplementation for people who have a history of coronary heart disease. Dietary supplements can be manufactured using intact sources or extracts from plants, animals, algae, fungi or lichens, including such examples as ginkgo biloba, curcumin, cranberry, St. John’s wort, ginseng, resveratrol,
“Fish tank additive may treat coronavirus.” [SEP] Bovine coronavirus // nasal washes – which identifies the viral antigen. The haemagglutination inhibition test can be used to establish the strain of coronavirus. Animals should be treated symptomatically. The disease can be controlled by vaccinating the dam with a live vaccine (ATCvet code QI02) whilst she is pregnant as this provides antibodies to the virus in the colostrum. Additional management factors such as ensuring adequate colostrum intake in newborn calves, using appropriate hygiene methods and ventilation of housing reduce disease incidence. Bovine coronavirus Bovine coronavirus (BCV) is as a member of the Coronaviridae family which are enveloped, single-stranded, positive-sense RNA viruses with
“Fish tank additive may treat coronavirus.” [SEP] Pit additive // additives in wastewater can facilitate reduction in organic load and pathogen removal, leading to significant improvements in effluent quality. They also claim benefits relating to the rate of sludge build-up and odor reduction. One source claims that septic tank additives can reduce hydrogen sulphide and ammonia production. Their reasoning is that additives contain natural’ organisms that prevail over the rather less ‘natural’ organisms that would otherwise dominate conditions in the treatment unit, whether this be a septic tank or some form of aerobic treatment. They even claim that by overcoming the effects of ‘unnatural’ substances such as bleach and other
“Fish tank additive may treat coronavirus.” [SEP] Fish oil // of marketed supplements containing fish oil and other marine oils. These problems include contamination, inaccurate listing of EPA and DHA levels, spoilage and formulation issues. Fish can accumulate toxins such as mercury, dioxins, and polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), and spoiled fish oil may produce peroxides. There appears to be little risk of contamination by microorganisms, proteins, lysophospholipids, cholesterol, and trans-fats. Dioxins and PCBs may be carcinogenic at low levels of exposure over time. These substances are identified and measured in one of two categories, dioxin-like PCBs and total PCBs. While the U.S. FDA has not set a limit for PCBs in
“Fish tank additive may treat coronavirus.” [SEP] Antimicrobials in aquaculture // fish hobbyists as a treatment for fungal infections. It can also be effective in treating fish infected with "ich", the parasitic protozoa "Ichthyophthirius multifiliis". It is usually used to protect newly laid fish eggs from being infected by fungus or bacteria. This is useful when the hobbyist wants to artificially hatch the fish eggs. Methylene Blue is also very effective when used as part of a "medicated fish bath" for treatment of ammonia, nitrite, and cyanide poisoning as well as for topical and internal treatment of injured or sick fish as a "first response". Ozone is added to seawater and
“Fish tank additive may treat coronavirus.” [SEP] Seafood mislabelling // in aquaculture as long as the seafood contains less than a mandated maximum residue limit: florfenicol, sulfamerazine, chorionic gonadotropin, oxytetracycline dihydrate, oxytetracycline hydrochloride, as well as a drug combination of sulfadimethoxine and ormetoprim. FDA has approved two drugs—formalin and hydrogen peroxide—for which it has not set a tolerance. The FDA now enforces regulations in the US requiring testing of certain imported products for antimicrobial agents under Import Alert 16-131. The Import Alert provides that the use of antimicrobials during the various stages of aquaculture, including malachite green, nitrofurans, fluoroquinolones, and gentian violet, may contribute to an increase of antimicrobial resistance
“Fish tank additive may treat coronavirus.” [SEP] Fish // to the infected region and delivers white blood cells that attempt to destroy pathogens. Specific defenses respond to particular pathogens recognised by the fish's body, i.e., an immune response. In recent years, vaccines have become widely used in aquaculture and also with ornamental fish, for example furunculosis vaccines in farmed salmon and koi herpes virus in koi. Some species use cleaner fish to remove external parasites. The best known of these are the Bluestreak cleaner wrasses of the genus "Labroides" found on coral reefs in the Indian and Pacific oceans. These small fish maintain so-called "cleaning stations" where other fish
Mental health center in Newport gets $2M to expand services. [SEP] Newport Academy // treats mental health issues and addiction. In 2012, Newport Academy received approval from the Commission on Accreditation of Rehabilitation Facilities. In July and August of 2013 a judge sent Ethan Couch for teen substance abuse and mental health rehabilitation to Newport Academy, which cost upwards of $450,000 annually at that time. Couch's stay was a topic in the press. In January 2017, Monroe Operations, which does business as Newport Academy, was reportedly up for sale, with Moelis & Co advising on the auction. The schools use a number of therapies to treat mental health issues, substance abuse, and eating disorders.
Mental health center in Newport gets $2M to expand services. [SEP] Ethan Couch // hired as an expert by the defense, testified in court that the teen was a product of "affluenza" and was unable to link his actions with consequences because of his parents teaching him that wealth buys privilege. It was initially reported that, as part of his sentencing, their son would be sent for teen substance abuse and mental health rehabilitation to Newport Academy, an upscale residential treatment center in Newport Beach, California with costs upwards of $450,000 annually. The facility offers a 90-day treatment program that includes horseback riding, mixed martial arts, massage and cookery, interpretive dance therapy, a swimming
Mental health center in Newport gets $2M to expand services. [SEP] North Country Hospital // The addition included a surgical suite, new emergency department with indoor ambulance bays, outpatient services, and central sterilization and distribution department. In 2006, a dialysis center opened in the ground floor space under the ED. The hospital had a $55 million budget in 2007. Salaries were $24 million. Supplies cost $14 million. North Country Hospital North Country Hospital is a Critical Access Hospital in Newport City, Vermont. It was founded in 1919. It is run by a board of trustees. Claudio Fort is president and CEO. The hospital was the only one in Vermont in 2007 to achieve 100% on
Mental health center in Newport gets $2M to expand services. [SEP] Providence Willamette Falls Medical Center // department. A second medical building was added in 2002, followed by a redesign of the main entrance in 2005. The hospital was sued in 2004 by the Arc of Oregon over claims the hospital refused to treat some patients with mental disabilities. In May 2005, the hospital announced plans to build a $7 million medical center in neighboring Canby, with construction beginning in June 2006 on the center that would include an urgent care clinic and imaging. The hospital opened a new emergency department in January 2006 that expanded the emergency department to 19 beds at a cost of $20
Mental health center in Newport gets $2M to expand services. [SEP] Chris Malone (politician) // centers. There has been an additional $20 million allocated for the state’s mental health services aimed at improving the livelihoods of those struggling with mental illness and substance abuse. For example, I have provided vouchers for respite services to help families acting as caregivers for Alzheimer’s patients, and won the argument to provide more money for Pre-K in most counties, as well as Child Advocacy Centers. Also local social services departments and the efficiency of foster care facilities were improved with staff training and technical assistance capabilities in both. We must invest in furthering our efforts in this arena. We
Mental health center in Newport gets $2M to expand services. [SEP] Chris Malone (politician) // I have fought in the General Assembly for the health and well-being of our citizens. Our resourceful budgeting has allowed the General Assembly to address opportunities for further economic expansion and critical infrastructure needs that fall under the Department of Health and Human Services. I have made great strides in improving our state’s mental health services by directing $18 million from the sale of the Dorothea Dix Hospital property to construct or convert existing, rural hospital beds into licensed, short term, inpatient, behavioral health beds. $2 million from the sale of this property will also fund pediatric mental health crisis
Mental health center in Newport gets $2M to expand services. [SEP] La Clinica del Pueblo // Due its growth, LCDP's staff and patients lobbied for autonomy and in 1995, LCDP became an independent non-profit organization. From 1995-2003, LCDP grew rapidly, increasing its budget from $800,000 to $4.6 million. During this period, LCDP also began accepting reimbursements from Medicaid, which meant it was no longer a free clinic. This period also saw the creation of the interpreter services program, a Social Services Department which provided patients with case managers, and the launch of an HIV/AIDS prevention program. In 2000, LCDP received a large grant from the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration, which allowed its mental
Mental health center in Newport gets $2M to expand services. [SEP] Community mental health service // growth of skilled nursing homes and intermediate-care facilities that alleviated the burden felt by the large-scale public psychiatric hospitals. From 1965 to 1969, $260 million was authorized for community mental health centers. Compared to other government organizations and programs, this number is strikingly low. The funding drops even further under Richard Nixon from 1970–1973 with a total of $50.3 million authorized. Even though the funding for community mental health centers was on a steady decline, deinstitutionalization continued into the 1960s and 1970s. The number of state and county mental hospital resident patients in 1950 was 512,501 and by 1989 had
Mental health center in Newport gets $2M to expand services. [SEP] Aurora Mental Health Center // Aurora Mental Health Center The Aurora Mental Health Center, located in Aurora, Colorado, is a private, nonprofit community mental health center founded in 1975 by local citizens. As of 2016, the Center has a $50 million budget that supports services to more than 25,000 individuals of all ages, races, and backgrounds, 68.8% of whom live below the federal poverty level and 21% of whom are uninsured. The Center employs 520 full and part-time staff, who speak 73 languages. Services are provided through 46 unique programs in 13 counseling centers, 10 residential facilities, 13 sites integrated with primary medical care, in
Mental health center in Newport gets $2M to expand services. [SEP] Pine Rest Christian Mental Health Services // total cost of the project. Services include an older adult inpatient unit, outpatient services such as neuropsychological evaluation, memory disorder assessment and treatment recommendations, and diagnosis and treatment for senior cognitive and behavioral health issues. The center was named for its lead donors, the Foundation of Jay and Betty Van Andel and the Peter C. and Emajean Cook Foundation. In February 2014, a 22-bed inpatient hospital unit opened as part of a 3-phase facilities investment construction project. Services at the Redwood Unit are dedicated to the treatment and care of patients with co-occurring disorders (mental health diagnosis and substance abuse
U.S. Supreme Court tosses out Medtronic pacemaker patent loss. [SEP] Medtronic, Inc. v. Mirowski Family Ventures, LLC // two of its patents, which dealt with cardiac resynchronization therapy, a pacemaker that is used to treat congestive heart failure. Medtronic thought that its products did not infringe Mirowski's patents, either because the products fell outside the scope of the patent claims or because the patents were invalid. Medtronic brought an action for declaratory judgment in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware, seeking a declaration that its products did not infringe Mirowski's patents and that the patents were invalid. The District Court recognized that Mirowski was the defendant in the action, but it held that Mirowski,
U.S. Supreme Court tosses out Medtronic pacemaker patent loss. [SEP] Medtronic, Inc. v. Mirowski Family Ventures, LLC // "[a]s the part[y] asserting infringement," bore the burden of proving infringement. After a bench trial, the court found that Mirowski had not proved infringement, either directly or under the doctrine of equivalents, and it therefore lost. On appeal, the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit held that "when an infringement counterclaim by a patentee is foreclosed by the continued existence of a license, a licensee seeking a declaratory judgment of noninfringement and of no consequent liability under the license bears the burden of persuasion." Therefore, Medtronic, as plaintiff, bore the burden of proof, and the District Court
U.S. Supreme Court tosses out Medtronic pacemaker patent loss. [SEP] Medtronic, Inc. v. Mirowski Family Ventures, LLC // ruling was vacated and remanded. Because of the importance of burdens of proof in patent litigation, the Supreme Court granted certiorari to hear the appeal. In a unanimous ruling, the Court reversed the Federal Circuit ruling. Justice Breyer held that, when a licensee seeks a declaratory judgment against a patentee to establish that there is no infringement, the burden of proving infringement remains with the patentee. He stated that "Simple legal logic, resting upon settled case law, strongly supports our conclusion." The case law in question has held that: Breyer also noted that "practical considerations lead to the same conclusion":
U.S. Supreme Court tosses out Medtronic pacemaker patent loss. [SEP] Medtronic, Inc. v. Mirowski Family Ventures, LLC // Medtronic, Inc. v. Mirowski Family Ventures, LLC Medtronic, Inc. v. Mirowski Family Ventures, LLC, 571 U.S. ___ (2014), is a case of the Supreme Court of the United States that deals with civil procedure, and specifically with the question of the burden of proof required in pursuing declaratory judgments. In 1991, Medtronic and Mirowski entered into an agreement permitting Medtronic to practice certain Mirowski patents in exchange for royalty payments. In 2007, the parties found themselves in the midst of an "infringement" dispute, and Mirowski gave Medtronic notice that it believed seven new Medtronic products violated various claims contained in
U.S. Supreme Court tosses out Medtronic pacemaker patent loss. [SEP] Mallinckrodt, Inc. v. Medipart, Inc. // Mallinckrodt, Inc. v. Medipart, Inc. Mallinckrodt, Inc. v. Medipart, Inc., 976 F.2d 700 (Fed. Cir. 1992), is a decision of the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, in which the court appeared to overrule or drastically limit many years of U.S. Supreme Court precedent affirming the patent exhaustion doctrine, for example in "Bauer & Cie. v. O'Donnell". According to the opinions in the case, the plaintiff Mallinckrodt owned a patent on a device for dispensing a radioactive mist used in taking diagnostic lung X-rays, and for trapping the mist after use. Mallinckrodt sold the device to hospitals
U.S. Supreme Court tosses out Medtronic pacemaker patent loss. [SEP] Tri-Ergon // film companies which used the Tri-Ergon design - for infringement, specifically the flywheel on the sound drum. During a series of legal tussles Fox at first won his lawsuit on appeal and then lost it after an unusual reversal of decision by the U. S. Supreme Court in October 1934 not to review the case. The Supreme Court surprisingly relented, heard the appeal and finally ruled in March 1935 that neither system was 'new', and that there were prior inventions. An appeal by Alttona Publix was rejected on 1 April 1935. Although this brought a swift end to the sound
U.S. Supreme Court tosses out Medtronic pacemaker patent loss. [SEP] United States v. General Electric Co. // manufacturer licensing competitive manufacturers. It does not apply to a price-fix on an unpatented product made by a patented machine or patented method. The United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit has continued to rely on what is termed, above, the core of the opinion. In "Mallinckrodt, Inc. v. Medipart, Inc.", the Federal Circuit relied on "GE" as the basis for its ruling that the patentee’s post-sale restrictions were not prohibited under the exhaustion doctrine. The Federal Circuit’s "Quanta" decision relied for its rationale on "Mallinckrodt", and thus on "GE". But the Supreme Court’s reversal of that decision
U.S. Supreme Court tosses out Medtronic pacemaker patent loss. [SEP] Public Citizen Litigation Group // or competing products infringes the company's intellectual property rights. Since the Litigation Group was founded in 1972, its lawyers have argued 63 cases before the United States Supreme Court—including four cases during the Court’s 2005-2006 term and four in the 2007-2008 term. The Litigation Group’s cases include: • "Richlin Security Service Co. v. Chertoff" (2008), in which the Court held that a prevailing party be awarded attorney fees for paralegal services at the market rate for such services. • "Riegel v. Medtronic" (2008), in which the Court held that the express preemption provision of the Medical Device Amendments to the
U.S. Supreme Court tosses out Medtronic pacemaker patent loss. [SEP] Artificial cardiac pacemaker // of The Heart Rhythm Society, a specialist organization based in Washington, DC found that it was legal and ethical to honor requests by patients, or by those with legal authority to make decisions for patients, to deactivate implanted cardiac devices. Lawyers say that the legal situation is similar to removing a feeding tube, though there is currently no legal precedent involving pacemakers in the United States of America. A patient in the United States is thought to have a right to refuse or discontinue treatment, including a pacemaker that keeps him or her alive. Physicians have a right to refuse
U.S. Supreme Court tosses out Medtronic pacemaker patent loss. [SEP] Continuing patent application // software companies, electronics companies and US government agencies for the reasons given above. Those that favored the rule changes felt that said changes were consistent with the laws governing continuation practice. On August 22, 2007, inventor Dr. Triantafyllos Tafas sued the USPTO in the United States District Court of the Eastern District of Virginia on the ground that the rule changes were in violation of the U.S. patent law and therefore are invalid. On October 9, 2007, pharmaceutical company GlaxoSmithKline filed a similar suit seeking a preliminary injunction to prevent the enforcement of the new rules. The court consolidated the
There has never been a death caused by a [commercial nuclear] reactor in the United States, even when Three Mile Island failed in the 1970s. [SEP] Three Mile Island accident // Three Mile Island accident The Three Mile Island accident occurred on March 28, 1979, in reactor number 2 of Three Mile Island Nuclear Generating Station (TMI-2) in Dauphin County, Pennsylvania, near Harrisburg. It was the most significant accident in U.S. commercial nuclear power plant history. The incident was rated a five on the seven-point International Nuclear Event Scale: Accident with wider consequences. The accident began with failures in the non-nuclear secondary system, followed by a stuck-open pilot-operated relief valve in the primary system, which allowed large amounts of nuclear reactor coolant to escape. The mechanical failures were compounded by the
There has never been a death caused by a [commercial nuclear] reactor in the United States, even when Three Mile Island failed in the 1970s. [SEP] Nuclear safety in the United States // the only known fatal reactor accident in the United States. The accident released about of iodine-131, which was not considered significant due to its location in a remote desert of Idaho. About of fission products were released into the atmosphere. On March 28, 1979, equipment failures and operator error contributed to loss of coolant and a partial core meltdown at the Three Mile Island Nuclear Power Plant in Pennsylvania. The mechanical failures were compounded by the initial failure of plant operators to recognize the situation as a loss-of-coolant accident due to inadequate training and human factors, such as human-computer interaction
There has never been a death caused by a [commercial nuclear] reactor in the United States, even when Three Mile Island failed in the 1970s. [SEP] Three Mile Island accident health effects // Island plant is located, the 1979 death rate among infants under one year represented a 28 percent increase over that of 1978, and among infants under one month, the death rate increased by 54 percent." Physicist Ernest Sternglass, a specialist in low-level radiation, noted these statistics in the 1981 edition of his book "Secret Fallout: low-level radiation from Hiroshima to Three-Mile Island". In their final 1981 report, however, the Pennsylvania Department of Health, examining death rates within the 10-mile area around TMI for the 6 months after the accident, said that the TMI-2 accident did not cause local deaths of
There has never been a death caused by a [commercial nuclear] reactor in the United States, even when Three Mile Island failed in the 1970s. [SEP] Nuclear power in the United States // accident caused a total of $2.4 billion in property damages. The health effects of the Three Mile Island accident are widely, but not universally, agreed to be very low level. The accident triggered protests around the world. The 1979 Three Mile Island accident was a pivotal event that led to questions about U.S. nuclear safety. Earlier events had a similar effect, including a 1975 fire at Browns Ferry, the 1976 testimonials of three concerned GE nuclear engineers, the GE Three. In 1981, workers inadvertently reversed pipe restraints at the Diablo Canyon Power Plant reactors, compromising seismic protection systems, which further
There has never been a death caused by a [commercial nuclear] reactor in the United States, even when Three Mile Island failed in the 1970s. [SEP] Nuclear power debate // Babcock & Wilcox) of the Three Mile Island Nuclear Generating Station in Dauphin County, Pennsylvania near Harrisburg, United States in 1979. It was the most significant accident in the history of the USA commercial nuclear power generating industry, resulting in the release of approximately 2.5 million curies of radioactive noble gases, and approximately 15 curies of iodine-131. Cleanup started in August 1979 and officially ended in December 1993, with a total cleanup cost of about $. The incident was rated a five on the seven-point International Nuclear Event Scale: Accident With Wider Consequences. The health effects of the Three Mile
There has never been a death caused by a [commercial nuclear] reactor in the United States, even when Three Mile Island failed in the 1970s. [SEP] Nuclear labor issues // part interview, on the implications of her case in relation to compensation for radiation injury, and on proving strict liability and physical injury in nuclear facilities. The Three Mile Island accident in Pennsylvania occurred on March 28, 1979 was rated a 5 on the 7-point International Nuclear Event Scale resulting in the meltdown of radioactive fuel in the Unit 2 reactor. On January 4, 1986, a tank containing uranium hexafluoride (UF6) ruptured, releasing 14.5 tons of gaseous UF6 into the environment and causing the death of James Harrison, a 25-year old African American/Cherokee worker, and the hospitalization of 37 workers
There has never been a death caused by a [commercial nuclear] reactor in the United States, even when Three Mile Island failed in the 1970s. [SEP] Nuclear power debate // plants and other facilities covering 1950 to 1984 focusing on the change after operation started of the respective facilities. They concluded in no link. In 2000 the University of Pittsburgh found no link to heightened cancer deaths in people living within 5 miles of plant at the time of the Three Mile Island accident. The same year, the Illinois Public Health Department found no statistical abnormality of childhood cancers in counties with nuclear plants. In 2001 the Connecticut Academy of Science and Engineering confirmed that radiation emissions were negligibly low at the Connecticut Yankee Nuclear Power Plant. Also that year,
There has never been a death caused by a [commercial nuclear] reactor in the United States, even when Three Mile Island failed in the 1970s. [SEP] Three Mile Island: A Nuclear Crisis in Historical Perspective // after the accident. The international attention garnered by the crisis redoubled the determination of, and enhanced the credibility of, the anti-nuclear movement. Arguably, the United States nuclear industry has never recovered. Walker reports that "studies looking for long-term radiation effects resulting from the accident have reached conflicting conclusions", but it seems "that any increase in cancers is slight enough to have occurred by chance". Walker concludes that the TMI-2 accident left a mixed legacy. It did force regulatory and operational improvements on a reluctant industry, but it also increased opposition to nuclear power. In Walker's analysis, neither the critics nor
There has never been a death caused by a [commercial nuclear] reactor in the United States, even when Three Mile Island failed in the 1970s. [SEP] Three Mile Island accident health effects // study on local death rates before and after the accident, for the period 1975-1985, for the 10-mile area around TMI. Assigning fallout impact based on winds on the morning of March 28, 1979, the study found no link between fallout and cancer risk. The study found that cancer rates near the Three Mile Island plant peaked in 1982-3, but their mathematical model did not account for the observed increase in cancer rates, since they argued that latency periods for cancer are much longer than three years. From 1975 to 1979 there were 1,722 reported cases of cancer, and between 1981
There has never been a death caused by a [commercial nuclear] reactor in the United States, even when Three Mile Island failed in the 1970s. [SEP] Three Mile Island Nuclear Generating Station // not shown any increase in cancer as a result of the accident. However, almost $25 million was paid in insurance settlements to people who then agreed not to discuss their injuries in ongoing litigation. Unit 2 has not been operational since the accident occurred. The New York Times reported on August 14, 1993, 14 years after the accident, that the clean up had been finished. According to the United States NRC, 2.3 million gallons of waste water had been removed. The incident was widely publicized internationally, and had far-reaching effects on public opinion, particularly in the United States. "The China
Immune-Focused Drug May Be New Weapon Against Advanced Melanoma [SEP] Melanoma // Clinical Oncology Conference in June 2010, the Bristol-Myers Squibb pharmaceutical company reported the clinical findings of their drug ipilimumab. The study found an increase in median survival from 6.4 to 10 months in patients with advanced melanomas treated with the monoclonal ipilimumab, versus an experimental vaccine. It also found a one-year survival rate of 25% in the control group using the vaccine, 44% in the vaccine and ipilimumab group, and 46% in the group treated with ipilimumab alone. However, some have raised concerns about this study for its use of the unconventional control arm, rather than comparing the drug against
Immune-Focused Drug May Be New Weapon Against Advanced Melanoma [SEP] Melanoma // a placebo or standard treatment. The criticism was that although Ipilimumab performed better than the vaccine, the vaccine has not been tested before and may be causing toxicity, making the drug appear better by comparison. Ipilimumab was approved by the FDA in March 2011 to treat patients with late-stage melanoma that has spread or cannot be removed by surgery. In June 2011, a clinical trial of ipilimumab plus dacarbazine combined this immune system booster with the standard chemotherapy drug that targets cell division. It showed an increase in median survival for these late stage patients to 11 months instead of
Immune-Focused Drug May Be New Weapon Against Advanced Melanoma [SEP] Melanoma // this disease in a small percentage of people with melanoma. Intralesional IL-2 for in-transit metastases has a high complete response rate ranging from 40 to 100%. Similarly, IFN-a has shown only modest survival benefits and high toxicity, limiting its use as a stand alone therapy. Immune check point inhibitors include anti-CTLA-4 monoclonal antibodies (ipilimumab and tremelimumab), toll-like receptor (TLR) agonists, CD40 agonists, anti-PD-1 (pembrolizumab, pidilizumab and nivolumab) and PDL-1 antibodies. Evidence suggests that anti-PD-1 antibodies are more effective than anti-CTLA4 antibodies with less systemic toxicity. A therapeutic approach that includes the combination of different therapies improves overall survival and progression-free
Immune-Focused Drug May Be New Weapon Against Advanced Melanoma [SEP] Melanoma // BRAF and MEK inhibitors may create a fast and lasting melanoma therapy response. A number of treatments improve survival over traditional chemotherapy. Biochemotherapy (chemotherapy with cytokines IL-2 and IFN-α) combined with BRAF inhibitors improved survival for people with BRAF positive melanoma. Biochemotherapy alone did not improve overall survival and had higher toxicity than chemotherapy. Combining multiple chemotherapy agents (polychemotherapy) did not improve survival over monochemotherapy. Immunotherapy is aimed at stimulating the person’s immune system against the tumor, by enhancing the body's own ability to recognize and kill cancer cells. The current approach to treating melanoma with immunotherapy includes three broad
Immune-Focused Drug May Be New Weapon Against Advanced Melanoma [SEP] Melanoma // of virotherapy, where oncolytic viruses are used to treat diseases; viruses can increase metabolism, reduce anti-tumor immunity and disorganize vasculature. Talimogene laherparepvec (T-VEC) (which is a herpes simplex virus type 1–derived oncolytic immunotherapy), was shown to be useful against metastatic melanoma in 2015 with an increased survival of 4.4 months. Melanoma Melanoma, also known as malignant melanoma, is a type of cancer that develops from the pigment-containing cells known as melanocytes. Melanomas typically occur in the skin, but may rarely occur in the mouth, intestines, or eye. In women, they most commonly occur on the legs, while in men they
Immune-Focused Drug May Be New Weapon Against Advanced Melanoma [SEP] H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center & Research Institute // Adam Comprehensive Melanoma Research Center at Moffitt, and researchers at Moffitt Cancer Center discovered two monotherapy drugs – Mekinist (trametinib) and Tafinlar (dabrafenib) – can be safely combined to overcome or delay treatment resistance for a large percentage of melanoma patients with a specific gene mutation. Approved by the FDA in January 2014, Mekinist in combination with Tafinlar is one of the biggest advancements in melanoma treatment in the past 30 years. In August 2011, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved the drug vemurafenib (Zelboraf) for metastatic melanoma patients who test positive for a specific gene mutation. Moffitt
Immune-Focused Drug May Be New Weapon Against Advanced Melanoma [SEP] Tumor antigen vaccine // suggest that they induce targeted immune responses in patients treated with the vaccines. The article also discusses 19 clinical trials that were initiated in the same time period. These trials are targeting solid tumors, glioma, glioblastoma, melanoma, and breast, cervical, ovarian, colorectal, and non-small lung cell cancers and include antigens from MUC1, IDO1 (Indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase), CTAG1B, and two VEGF receptors, FLT1 and KDR. Notably, the IDO1 vaccine is being tested in patients with melanoma in combination with the immune checkpoint inhibitor ipilimumab and the BRAF (gene) inhibitor vemurafenib. The following table, summarizing information from another recent review shows an example
Immune-Focused Drug May Be New Weapon Against Advanced Melanoma [SEP] B16 Melanoma // B164A5, B16GMCSF, and B16FLT3. Today, B16 melanoma remains indispensable for metastasis studies. Current research projects focus on the cells’ immunological response to vaccines, microRNA mediated metastatic properties, especially miR-21, a noted aggressor of tumor suppressors and anti-proliferative factors. B16 is also used as a pre-clinical model to study immunotherapy. Those are just a few examples, but the undergirding idea is that the B16 melanoma model is a powerful research tool, and a staple for metastasis studies, and its development as such can be considered a huge benefit to the cancer research community. B16 Melanoma B16 melanoma is a murine tumor
Immune-Focused Drug May Be New Weapon Against Advanced Melanoma [SEP] Treatment of cancer // an immune response against tumours include intravesical BCG immunotherapy for superficial bladder cancer, and use of interferons and other cytokines to induce an immune response in renal cell carcinoma and melanoma patients. Cancer vaccines to generate specific immune responses are the subject of intensive research for a number of tumours, notably malignant melanoma and renal cell carcinoma. Sipuleucel-T is a vaccine-like strategy in late clinical trials for prostate cancer in which dendritic cells from the patient are loaded with prostatic acid phosphatase peptides to induce a specific immune response against prostate-derived cells. Allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation ("bone marrow transplantation"
Immune-Focused Drug May Be New Weapon Against Advanced Melanoma [SEP] Melanoma // Plexxicon's vemurafenib could lead to substantial tumor regression in a majority of patients if their tumor contain the B-Raf mutation. In June 2011, a large clinical trial confirmed the positive findings from those earlier trials. In August 2011 Vemurafenib received FDA approval for the treatment of late-stage melanoma. In May 2013 the US FDA approved dabrafenib as a single agent treatment for patients with BRAF V600E mutation-positive advanced melanoma. Some researchers believe that combination therapies that simultaneously block multiple pathways may improve efficacy by making it more difficult for the tumor cells to mutate before being destroyed. In October 2012
Lil' Wayne announced that he was diagnosed with skin cancer and has one month to live. [SEP] Anthony Ian Berkeley // cancer on July 15, 2001, 1:45pm EST at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles, California, five weeks before "Nightmare in A-Minor’s" scheduled release. He had survived almost two and a half years beyond the doctors' initial 3-month prognosis. Tributes came quickly from across the hip-hop world, both from fellow musicians such as Chuck D of Public Enemy, who wrote an article in tribute to him on his Welcome To The Terrordome commentary section on the group's Web site, and from critics, who widely wrote of their regret at the loss of his talent. An intimate memorial service for him was
Lil' Wayne announced that he was diagnosed with skin cancer and has one month to live. [SEP] In Harm's Way // Wayne's low-key performance was due to the fact that he was seriously ill with lung cancer when the film was made. Shortly after filming ended in September 1964, he was diagnosed with the disease and a month later underwent surgery to remove his entire left lung and two ribs. Co-star Franchot Tone was soon to also develop lung cancer and died of the disease in September 1968. Many of the non-military costumes and hairstyles worn by the women throughout the film were contemporary to the mid-1960s period during which the film was made, rather than of the early 1940s. This
Lil' Wayne announced that he was diagnosed with skin cancer and has one month to live. [SEP] Lil Wayne // Wayne sat down with Amanda Seales and spoke briefly about an album he put together titled "Devol" (loved, backwards), an album full of "love songs" that he wrote during his imprisonment at Rikers Island. In May 2013 he has confirmed the album will still be released. Lil Wayne's ongoing litigation with Cash Money has prevented numerous completed projects from seeing light of day, in November 2016 it was revealed the next project he's releasing is titled "Funeral". On March 29, 2011, in an interview with Hot 97's Angie Martinez, Lil Wayne announced that he would retire at age 35; saying
Lil' Wayne announced that he was diagnosed with skin cancer and has one month to live. [SEP] TMZ // he was hospitalized following a seizure and that the 30-year-old rapper had been placed in an induced coma and was breathing through tubes. Soon after the report was made, Lil Wayne's friend Mack Maine responded to TMZ's allegations on his Twitter account by stating that Wayne was "alive and well" and that he was currently at Wayne's bedside "watching the Syracuse game" with him. Maine also added that Wayne's condition was never that serious and that Wayne was never in a coma or breathing through tubes. Soon afterwards, Wayne's father stated on his Twitter account that Wayne was healthy enough
Lil' Wayne announced that he was diagnosed with skin cancer and has one month to live. [SEP] Brynle Williams // He was married and had a son and daughter. Williams was diagnosed with colon cancer in the summer of 2010. He died in April 2011 after an eight-month battle with the disease. In May 2012, an inquest into Williams' death heard that misdiagnosis of the cancer resulted in a five-month delay in its treatment. Williams was initially told by the Betsi Cadwaladr University Health Board that he had an ulcerative colitis in April 2010, five months before the colon cancer was correctly identified. The coroner concluded that the delay may have allowed him to "live longer but not necessarily have
Lil' Wayne announced that he was diagnosed with skin cancer and has one month to live. [SEP] Tha Carter V // Lil Wayne was confirmed to have been released from his contract with Cash Money in June 2018 and announced the release of the album in September. The album debuted at number one on the "Billboard" 200 with the second-largest streaming week for an album. In November 2012, Lil Wayne announced "Tha Carter V" would be his final album; he previously stated he would retire at the age of 35; he explained that he had four kids and he "would feel selfish still going to the studio when it's such a vital point in their lives". In April 2014, Wayne addressed
Lil' Wayne announced that he was diagnosed with skin cancer and has one month to live. [SEP] Tony Fenton // team. In the summer of 2011, Fenton revealed that he had been battling prostate cancer. Just one month after losing his mother to cancer in October 2010, Fenton discovered what turned out to be a malignant melanoma on his leg. Following treatment, the melanoma receded and he was given the all clear in March 2011. The cancer returned in May, however, and Fenton travelled to Germany for surgery. The surgery was a success and Fenton spent the remainder of his six-week break recuperating. Fenton died on 11 March 2015, a fortnight before his 54th birthday, after succumbing to prostate cancer.
Lil' Wayne announced that he was diagnosed with skin cancer and has one month to live. [SEP] Lil Wayne // Day 2004 and divorced in 2006. Internet rumors started circulating in August 2008 that Wayne's daughter had died in a car crash, which however he quickly cleared up as false saying "Please allow me to dispel any rumors or speculations and report that my daughter is alive, healthy and surrounded by family who cares and loves her dearly. The rumors are completely false and unfounded; neither Reginae nor any other member of my family has been involved in any car accident." His second child, Dwayne III, was born on October 22, 2008, at The Christ Hospital in Cincinnati to radio
Lil' Wayne announced that he was diagnosed with skin cancer and has one month to live. [SEP] John Wayne // the Chase", studio directors knew to shoot Wayne's scenes before noon, because by afternoon he "was a mean drunk". He had been a chain smoker of cigarettes since young adulthood and was diagnosed with lung cancer in 1964. He underwent successful surgery to remove his entire left lung and four ribs. Despite efforts by his business associates to prevent him from going public with his illness for fear that it would cost him work, Wayne announced he had cancer and called on the public to get preventive examinations. Five years later, Wayne was declared cancer-free. Wayne has been credited with
Lil' Wayne announced that he was diagnosed with skin cancer and has one month to live. [SEP] Lil Wayne // to be released on May 16, 2011, but Mack Maine had confirmed its delay until June 21. On May 26, 2011, the third single, "How to Love", was released. A song called "Dear Anne "(Stan Part 2)"" was released in June. Lil Wayne said the song was a throwaway track from "Tha Carter III" and was originally supposed to be on "Tha Carter IV", but decided not to put it on there because of its age. Lil Wayne said that he liked the beat, but not the lyrics, and was thinking about revamping the song. In July 2011, Lil Wayne
Autism has now been included among the known side effects of the  DTaP (Diphtheria, Tetanus, and acellular Pertussis) vaccine. [SEP] Pertussis vaccine // Tetanus, acellular Pertussis), with the main difference that the adult version contains smaller amounts of the diphtheria and pertussis components—this is indicated in the name by the use of lower-case "d" and "p" for the adult vaccine. The lower-case "a" in each vaccine indicates that the pertussis component is acellular, or cell-free, which reduces the incidence of side effects. The pertussis component of the original DPT vaccine accounted for most of the minor local and systemic side effects in many vaccinated infants (such as mild fever or soreness at the injection site). The newer acellular vaccine, known as DTaP, has
Autism has now been included among the known side effects of the  DTaP (Diphtheria, Tetanus, and acellular Pertussis) vaccine. [SEP] Childhood immunizations in the United States // three diseases; Diphtheria, Pertussis and Tetanus. The DTaP vaccine is given as a 5-shot series at 2, 4, and 6 months, the fourth between 12 and 15 months, and the last between 4–6 years. A booster is recommended to be given between 11 and 12 years of age and is called Tdap. Some potential side effects of DTaP are; mild: uncommon: severe: It is important to note that these severe side effects are so rare that it is hard to correlate the vaccine and these symptoms. Potential side effects of Tdap; Diphtheria was once a major cause of illness and
Autism has now been included among the known side effects of the  DTaP (Diphtheria, Tetanus, and acellular Pertussis) vaccine. [SEP] DPT vaccine // In 2009, the journal "Pediatrics" concluded the largest risk among unvaccinated children was not the contraction of side effects, but rather the disease that the vaccination aims to protect against. DTP was licensed in 1949. DTaP and Tdap are both combined vaccines against diphtheria, tetanus, and pertussis. The difference is in the dosage, with the upper case letters meaning higher quantity. DTaP (also DTPa and TDaP) is a combined vaccine against diphtheria, tetanus, and pertussis, in which the pertussis component is acellular. This is in contrast to whole-cell, inactivated DTP (aka DTwP). The acellular vaccine uses selected antigens of the
Autism has now been included among the known side effects of the  DTaP (Diphtheria, Tetanus, and acellular Pertussis) vaccine. [SEP] Diphtheria vaccine // (1-in 12,500 doses), and hypotonic-hyporesponsive episodes ( 1-in 1,750 doses). Side effects of DTaP vaccines are similar but less frequent. Tetanus toxoid containing vaccines (Td, DT, DTP and DTaP) may cause brachial neuritis at a rate of 1 out of every 100,000 to 200,000 doses. The World Health Organization has recommended vaccination against diphtheria since 1974. The first dose is recommended at six weeks of age with two additional doses four weeks apart, after receiving these three doses about 95% of people are immune. Three further doses are recommended during childhood. Booster doses every ten years are no longer recommended.
Autism has now been included among the known side effects of the  DTaP (Diphtheria, Tetanus, and acellular Pertussis) vaccine. [SEP] Tetanus vaccine // acellular form of the pertussis vaccine because of safety concerns. Half of those who received the DTP vaccine had redness, swelling, and pain around the injection site which convinced researchers to find a replacement vaccine. Two new vaccines were launched in 1992. These combined tetanus and diphtheria with acellular pertussis (TDaP or DTaP) which could be given to adolescents and adults (as opposed to previously when the vaccine was only given to children). Tetanus vaccine Tetanus vaccine, also known as tetanus toxoid (TT), is an inactive vaccine used to prevent tetanus. During childhood five doses are recommended, with a sixth
Autism has now been included among the known side effects of the  DTaP (Diphtheria, Tetanus, and acellular Pertussis) vaccine. [SEP] Pertussis vaccine // pertussis" bacteria. Until the beginning of the 1990s it was used as a part of the DTwP vaccine for the immunization of children. It, however, contained pertussis endotoxin (surface lipooligosaccharide) and produced side effects. New acellular pertussis vaccines were developed in the 1980s, which included only a few selected pertussis antigens (toxins and adhesins). Acellular vaccines are less likely to provoke side effects. They became a part of DTaP vaccines for children. In 2005, two new vaccine products were licensed for use in adolescents and adults that combine the tetanus and diphtheria toxoids with acellular pertussis vaccine. These (Tdap) vaccines
Autism has now been included among the known side effects of the  DTaP (Diphtheria, Tetanus, and acellular Pertussis) vaccine. [SEP] National Vaccine Information Center // autism. The CDC now recommends the newer acellular pertussis vaccines (DTaP and Tdap), and whole cell pertussis vaccines are no longer used in the U.S. due to adverse effects unrelated to autism. In the early 1980s, the organization joined with the American Academy of Pediatrics to draft the original legislation for the National Childhood Vaccine Injury Act of 1986, which created a federal vaccine injury compensation program, mandated that doctors give parents vaccine benefit and risk information, and required the recording and reporting of vaccine injuries and deaths (see Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System). The organization changed its name to
Autism has now been included among the known side effects of the  DTaP (Diphtheria, Tetanus, and acellular Pertussis) vaccine. [SEP] Pertussis vaccine // have had a neurologic event after a previous dose not be vaccinated until after treatment is initiated and the condition stabilized. Only the acellular vaccine is used in the US. As of 2018 there are four acellular DTaP/Tdap vaccines licensed for use in USA: Infanrix and Daptacel – for children, Boostrix and Adacel – for adolescents and adults. Pertussis vaccine is usually administered as a component of the diphtheria-tetanus-pertussis (DTP/DTwP, DTaP and Tdap) vaccines. There are several types of diphtheria-tetanus-pertussis vaccines. The first vaccine against pertussis was developed in the 1930s by pediatrician Leila Denmark. It included whole-cell killed "Bordetella
Autism has now been included among the known side effects of the  DTaP (Diphtheria, Tetanus, and acellular Pertussis) vaccine. [SEP] DPT vaccine // pertussis pathogen to induce immunity. Because it uses fewer antigens than the whole cell vaccines, it is considered safer, but it is also more expensive. Recent research suggests that the DTP vaccine is more effective than DTaP in conferring immunity; this is because DTaP's narrower antigen base is less effective against current pathogen strains. Also dTpa, is a tetanus toxoid, reduced diphtheria toxoid and acellular pertussis vaccine (Tdap) was licensed in the United States for use in adults and adolescents on June 10, 2005. The lower case "d" and "p" indicated smaller concentrations of diphtheria toxoids and pertussis antigens, and
Autism has now been included among the known side effects of the  DTaP (Diphtheria, Tetanus, and acellular Pertussis) vaccine. [SEP] Diphtheria vaccine // at the site of injection that lasts a few weeks. The vaccine is safe in both pregnancy and among those who have a poor immune function. The diphtheria vaccine is delivered in several combinations. Some combinations (Td and DT vaccines) include tetanus vaccine, others (known as DPT vaccine or DTaP vaccine depending on the pertussis antigen used) comes with the tetanus and pertussis vaccines, and still others include additional vaccines such as Hib vaccine, hepatitis B vaccine, or inactivated polio vaccine. The World Health Organization has recommended its use since 1974. About 84% of the world population is vaccinated. It
Trendy fizzy drink is mushrooming [SEP] Trend Drinks // a carbonated chocolate flavoured drink. Trend Drinks Trend Drinks is a manufacturer of soft drinks in Gladstone in the Southern Flinders Ranges of South Australia. Trend Drinks is the last locally owned regional soft drink manufacturer in South Australia. Historically, South Australia had several regional independent soft drink manufacturers, but the growth of international brands has led to the decline of local independent bottlers. Today, the business is a partnership of Amore Syrups and Damian Casey. Trend drinks manufacture niche market products along with traditional soft drinks and cordials, such as Ginger Beer, Sarsaparilla, Portello and Cream Soda. They also
Trendy fizzy drink is mushrooming [SEP] Fizz (cocktail) // the egg white. The original recipe is made with grapefruit juice, because of the mixing of recipes you will find many recipes with lemon juice. Notes Fizz (cocktail) A "fizz" is a mixed drink variation on the older sours family of cocktail. Its defining features are an acidic juice (such as lemon or lime) and carbonated water. The first printed reference to "fiz" is in the 1887 edition of Jerry Thomas's "Bartender's Guide", which contains six such recipes. The fizz became widely popular in America between 1900 and the 1940s. Known as a hometown specialty of New Orleans, the gin
Trendy fizzy drink is mushrooming [SEP] Fizzies // online retailers. As of 2012, Fizzies were available in nine flavors: lemonade, root beer, cherry, orange, blue razz, hot cocoa, hot apple cider, cherry cola, and grape. They were marketed as a nostalgic drink to the baby boomer generation and as a fun way for kids to make their own flavorful drinks. In the past incarnation, the product had only 5 calories, was sweetened with sucralose, and contained Vitamin C in the form of ascorbic acid. In February or March of 2016, Fizzies was again discontinued. Fizzies Fizzies were tablets that created a "carbonated" soft drink when added to water.
Trendy fizzy drink is mushrooming [SEP] Buck's Fizz // by a British pop group, which went on to win a Eurovision title. Buck's Fizz The Buck's Fizz is an alcoholic cocktail made of two parts champagne to one part orange juice. It is very similar to the Mimosa, which also contains champagne and orange juice, but in equal measures. Other sparkling wines can also be used. The drink is named after London's Buck's Club, where it was invented as an excuse to begin drinking early; it was first served in 1921 by a barman named Malachy McGarry (who features in the works of P. G. Wodehouse as the barman
Trendy fizzy drink is mushrooming [SEP] Fizz (cocktail) // Fizz (cocktail) A "fizz" is a mixed drink variation on the older sours family of cocktail. Its defining features are an acidic juice (such as lemon or lime) and carbonated water. The first printed reference to "fiz" is in the 1887 edition of Jerry Thomas's "Bartender's Guide", which contains six such recipes. The fizz became widely popular in America between 1900 and the 1940s. Known as a hometown specialty of New Orleans, the gin fizz was so popular that bars would employ teams of bartenders that would take turns shaking the drinks. Demand for fizzes went international at least as
Trendy fizzy drink is mushrooming [SEP] Trend Drinks // Trend Drinks Trend Drinks is a manufacturer of soft drinks in Gladstone in the Southern Flinders Ranges of South Australia. Trend Drinks is the last locally owned regional soft drink manufacturer in South Australia. Historically, South Australia had several regional independent soft drink manufacturers, but the growth of international brands has led to the decline of local independent bottlers. Today, the business is a partnership of Amore Syrups and Damian Casey. Trend drinks manufacture niche market products along with traditional soft drinks and cordials, such as Ginger Beer, Sarsaparilla, Portello and Cream Soda. They also manufacture honey based beverages and
Trendy fizzy drink is mushrooming [SEP] Fizz (cocktail) // early as 1950, as evidenced by its inclusion in the French cookbook "L'Art Culinaire Francais" published that year. A gin fizz is the best-known cocktail in the fizz family. A gin fizz contains gin, lemon juice, and sugar, which are shaken with ice, poured into a tumbler and topped with carbonated water. The drink is similar to a Tom Collins, with a possible distinction being a Tom Collins historically used "Old Tom Gin" (a slightly sweeter precursor to London Dry Gin), whereas the kind of gin historically used in a gin fizz is unknown. Simple variations on the gin fizz
Trendy fizzy drink is mushrooming [SEP] Milkshake // to pull off without dairy curdling.” Unusual flavours from 2016 included bacon (particularly popular amongst millennials), peanut butter and jelly (like the popular sandwich), pumpkin, chocolate-coated strawberry and red velvet (like the cake). Another trend is using different types of milk, such as “almond milk, coconut milk, [or] hemp milk.” An unusual trend from 2016 was the Black Tap milkshake, a premium-priced ($15), 1,600 calorie drink that includes a "...mountain of ice cream topped with peanut butter cups, lollipops, cotton candy, or even entire slices of cake". Similar drinks referred to as "freakshakes" were popular in the United Kingdom and
Trendy fizzy drink is mushrooming [SEP] Buck's Fizz // Buck's Fizz The Buck's Fizz is an alcoholic cocktail made of two parts champagne to one part orange juice. It is very similar to the Mimosa, which also contains champagne and orange juice, but in equal measures. Other sparkling wines can also be used. The drink is named after London's Buck's Club, where it was invented as an excuse to begin drinking early; it was first served in 1921 by a barman named Malachy McGarry (who features in the works of P. G. Wodehouse as the barman of Buck's Club and the Drones Club). Traditionally, it is made by mixing
Trendy fizzy drink is mushrooming [SEP] Fizz (cocktail) // Governor Huey Long's fondness for it. In July 1935, Long brought a bartender named Sam Guarino from the Roosevelt Hotel to the New Yorker Hotel in New York City to teach its staff how to make the drink so he could have it whenever he was there. The Museum of the American Cocktail has newsreel footage of this event. The Roosevelt Hotel group trademarked the drink name in 1935 and still makes it today. A traditional sloe gin fizz contains sloe gin (a blackthorn plum flavored spirit), grapefruit juice, simple syrup, egg white, and carbonated water. A popular alternative eliminates
An image of a plant with phallic-looking structures is a genuine botanical specimen. [SEP] Voynich manuscript // The first section of the book is almost certainly herbal, but attempts have failed to identify the plants, either with actual specimens or with the stylized drawings of contemporaneous herbals. Only a few of the plant drawings can be identified with reasonable certainty, such as a wild pansy and the maidenhair fern. The herbal pictures that match pharmacological sketches appear to be clean copies of them, except that missing parts were completed with improbable-looking details. In fact, many of the plant drawings in the herbal section seem to be composite: the roots of one species have been fastened to the
An image of a plant with phallic-looking structures is a genuine botanical specimen. [SEP] Plant anatomy // Plant anatomy Plant anatomy or phytotomy is the general term for the study of the internal structure of plants. Originally it included plant morphology, the description of the physical form and external structure of plants, but since the mid-20th century plant anatomy has been considered a separate field referring only to internal plant structure. Plant anatomy is now frequently investigated at the cellular level, and often involves the sectioning of tissues and microscopy. Although some plant anatomy studies utilize a systems approach, such as the study of vascular tissues, plant anatomy is more classically divided into the following structural categories:
An image of a plant with phallic-looking structures is a genuine botanical specimen. [SEP] Botanical illustrator // or restrictions on safe transport, have meant illustrations have been nominated as the type for some names. Many minute plants, which may only be viewed under a microscope, are often identified by an illustration to overcome the difficulties in using slide mounted specimens. The standards for this are by international agreement (Art 37.5 of the Vienna Code, 2006)... The use of illustrations was frequently seen in the herbals, seed catalogues and popular works of natural history. The illustrations produced during the eighteenth and nineteenth century are regarded as both appealing and scientifically valid. The finer detail of the printing processes,
An image of a plant with phallic-looking structures is a genuine botanical specimen. [SEP] Vienna Dioscurides // that faithfully follow earlier classical models and present a quite naturalistic illustration of each plant. There are also other illustrations that are more abstract. The majority of the illustrations were painted in a naturalistic style so as to aid a pharmacologist in the recognition of each plant. However, it is believed that these illustrations were made as copies of an earlier herbal and were not drawn from nature. In addition to the illustrations of the text, the manuscript contains several frontispieces in the form of a series of full-page miniatures. Of special note is the dedication miniature portrait of Anicia
An image of a plant with phallic-looking structures is a genuine botanical specimen. [SEP] Plant reproductive morphology // 22,000 species worldwide, have highly modified inflorescences made up of flowers (florets) collected together into tightly packed heads. Heads may have florets of one sexual morphology – all bisexual, all carpellate or all staminate (when they are called homogamous), or may have mixtures of two or more sexual forms (heterogamous). Thus goatsbeards ("Tragopogon" species) have heads of bisexual florets, like other members of the tribe Cichorieae, whereas marigolds ("Calendula" species) generally have heads with the outer florets bisexual and the inner florets staminate (male). Like "Amborella", some plants undergo sex-switching. For example, "Arisaema triphyllum" (Jack-in-the-pulpit) expresses sexual differences at different
An image of a plant with phallic-looking structures is a genuine botanical specimen. [SEP] Botanical illustration // Botanical illustration Botanical illustration is the art of depicting the form, color, and details of plant species, frequently in watercolor paintings. They must be scientifically accurate but often also have an artistic component and may be printed with a botanical description in books, magazines, and other media or sold as a work of art. Often composed in consultation with a scientific author, their creation requires an understanding of plant morphology and access to specimens and references. Early herbals and pharmacopoeia of many cultures have included the depiction of plants. This was intended to assist identification of a species, usually with
An image of a plant with phallic-looking structures is a genuine botanical specimen. [SEP] Botanical illustration // create a compromise of accuracy, an idealized image from several specimens, and the inclusion of the face and reverse of the features such as leaves. Additionally, details of sections can be given at a magnified scale and included around the margins around the image. Botanical illustration is a feature of many notable books on plants, a list of these would include: Recently a renaissance has been occurring in botanical art and illustration. Organizations devoted to furthering the art form are found in the US (American Society of Botanical Artists), UK (Society of Botanical Artists), Australia (Botanical Art Society of Australia),
An image of a plant with phallic-looking structures is a genuine botanical specimen. [SEP] Plant reproductive morphology // Plant reproductive morphology Plant reproductive morphology is the study of the physical form and structure (the morphology) of those parts of plants directly or indirectly concerned with sexual reproduction. Among all living organisms, flowers, which are the reproductive structures of angiosperms, are the most varied physically and show a correspondingly great diversity in methods of reproduction. Plants that are not flowering plants (green algae, mosses, liverworts, hornworts, ferns and gymnosperms such as conifers) also have complex interplays between morphological adaptation and environmental factors in their sexual reproduction. The breeding system, or how the sperm from one plant fertilizes the ovum
An image of a plant with phallic-looking structures is a genuine botanical specimen. [SEP] Spermatophyte // 2015 with plant taxon authors from Anderson, Anderson & Cleal 2007 showing the relationship of extinct clades. Unassigned spermatophytes: Spermatophyte The spermatophytes, also known as phanerogams (taxon Phanerogamae) or phaenogams (taxon Phaenogamae), comprise those plants that produce seeds, hence the alternative name seed plants. They are a subset of the embryophytes or land plants. The term "phanerogams" or "phanerogamae" is derived from the Greek , ' meaning "visible", in contrast to the cryptogamae from Greek ' = "hidden" together with the suffix , "", "to marry". These terms distinguished those plants with hidden sexual organs (cryptogamae) from those with visible
An image of a plant with phallic-looking structures is a genuine botanical specimen. [SEP] Plant reproductive morphology // is asexual, producing only spores. Similarly, flowers produced by the sporophyte may be described as "unisexual" or "bisexual", meaning that they give rise to either one sex of gametophyte or both sexes of gametophyte. The flower is the characteristic structure concerned with sexual reproduction in flowering plants (angiosperms). Flowers vary enormously in their construction (morphology). A "complete" flower, like that of "Ranunculus glaberrimus" shown in the figure, has a calyx of outer sepals and a corolla of inner petals. The sepals and petals together form the perianth. Next inwards there are numerous stamens, which produce pollen grains, each containing a
US troops get freeze-dried plasma for battlefield bloodshed. [SEP] Blood plasma // would lead to needless deaths as soldiers and sailors were required to wait for "same race" blood. By the end of the war the American Red Cross had provided enough blood for over six million plasma packages. Most of the surplus plasma was returned to the United States for civilian use. Serum albumin replaced dried plasma for combat use during the Korean War. Plasma as a blood product prepared from blood donations is used in blood transfusions, typically as fresh frozen plasma (FFP) or plasma Frozen Within 24 Hours After Phlebotomy (PF24). When donating whole blood or packed red blood
US troops get freeze-dried plasma for battlefield bloodshed. [SEP] Blood bank // collect blood in New York City hospitals for the export of plasma to Britain. A dried plasma package was developed, which reduced breakage and made the transportation, packaging, and storage much simpler. The resulting dried plasma package came in two tin cans containing 400 cc bottles. One bottle contained enough distilled water to reconstitute the dried plasma contained within the other bottle. In about three minutes, the plasma would be ready to use and could stay fresh for around four hours. Charles R. Drew was appointed medical supervisor, and he was able to transform the test tube methods into the
US troops get freeze-dried plasma for battlefield bloodshed. [SEP] Blood plasma // project. His notable contribution at this time was to transform the test tube methods of many blood researchers into the first successful mass production techniques. Nevertheless, the decision was made to develop a dried plasma package for the armed forces as it would reduce breakage and make the transportation, packaging, and storage much simpler. The resulting dried plasma package came in two tin cans containing 400 cc bottles. One bottle contained enough distilled water to reconstitute the dried plasma contained within the other bottle. In about three minutes, the plasma would be ready to use and could stay fresh for
US troops get freeze-dried plasma for battlefield bloodshed. [SEP] Blood transfusion // 1940 to collect blood in New York City hospitals for the export of plasma to Britain. A dried plasma package was developed, which reduced breakage and made the transportation, packaging, and storage much simpler. The resulting dried plasma package came in two tin cans containing 400 mL bottles. One bottle contained enough distilled water to reconstitute the dried plasma contained within the other bottle. In about three minutes, the plasma would be ready to use and could stay fresh for around four hours. Dr. Charles R. Drew was appointed medical supervisor, and he was able to transform the test tube
US troops get freeze-dried plasma for battlefield bloodshed. [SEP] Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority // able to determine within 15 minutes whether a patient has been infected with the bacterium that causes anthrax.” In September 2017, BARDA awarded Velico Medical $15.5 million for development of a technology that uses spray drying of human plasma for transfusions. The current industry standard is to freeze plasma. Frozen plasma can take 40 or more minutes to defrost and deliver. According to Fierce Biotech, “Velico has Spray Dried Plasma technology (SpDPTM) that enables the storage of blood as dry powder, rather than the typical freezing, for subsequent rehydration. It's expected to be useful in hospital emergency rooms, operating suites
US troops get freeze-dried plasma for battlefield bloodshed. [SEP] Bio Products Laboratory // methods of freeze-drying plasma and then of separating out proteins in blood plasma. These early products were used tomeet the needs of the Armed Services and civilian establishments. In 1948 the Blood Filtration Unit came under the joint management of the Medical Research Council (MRC) and the Lister Institute, and the name was changed to the Blood Products Research Unit and it occupied the newly built laboratories (or ‘Building 25’). The aim of the Unit was directed towards the preparation of plasma fractions for clinical use During the 1940s, Brinkhous and McFarlane discovered that transfusions using whole blood or plasma
US troops get freeze-dried plasma for battlefield bloodshed. [SEP] Blood plasma // correspondence columns of the British Medical Journal, by Gordon R. Ward. "Dried plasmas" in powder or strips of material format were developed and first used in World War II. Prior to the United States' involvement in the war, liquid plasma and whole blood were used. The "Blood for Britain" program during the early 1940s was quite successful (and popular in the United States) based on Charles Drew's contribution. A large project began in August 1940 to collect blood in New York City hospitals for the export of plasma to Britain. Drew was appointed medical supervisor of the "Plasma for Britain"
US troops get freeze-dried plasma for battlefield bloodshed. [SEP] The Parafaith War // out at perimeter stations and ship techs wait until the last minute to replace failing parts. Rev corpses are even scrounged off the battlefields to be processed into fertilizer and organonutrient, necessary fuel for planet-side Coalition generators since fusion reactors ("fusactors") are forbidden in all but deep space. For food, soldiers are often left consuming Sustain, a nutrient-energy drink made of water and powder mix; algae crackers; and other synthetic materials. Real food is frequently too expensive to translate to border worlds, and a full meal of any quality can easily cost a full week of pay to a soldier.
US troops get freeze-dried plasma for battlefield bloodshed. [SEP] Blood doping // Forces commanders at Fort Bragg started experimenting with blood doping, also known as blood loading. Special Forces operators would provide two units of whole blood, from which red blood cells would be extracted, concentrated, and stored under cold temperatures. 24 hours before a mission or battle, a small amount of red blood cells would be infused back into the soldier. Military scientists believe that the procedure increases the soldiers’s endurance and alertness because of the increase in the blood's capability to carry oxygen. In 1998, the Australian Defence Forces approved this technique for the Special Air Service Regiment. Senior nutritionist
US troops get freeze-dried plasma for battlefield bloodshed. [SEP] Freeze-drying // supplies were spoiling before reaching their intended recipients. The freeze-drying process was developed as a commercial technique that enabled blood plasma and penicillin to be rendered chemically stable and viable without having to be refrigerated. In the 1950s-60s, freeze drying began to be viewed for its multi-purpose application to both pharmaceuticals and food processing. Freeze-drying products became a major commodity for astronauts and military food rations. What began for astronaut crews as tubed meals and freeze-dried snacks that were difficult to rehydrate, they are now able to enjoy warm hot meals while in space by improving the easability for rehydrating
Colorado assisted living facility license suspended. [SEP] Aurora, Colorado // violations, and the Aurora Detention Center is a 72-hour adult holding facility. The city of Aurora owns the former Guiraud Ranch in Park County. Now the Buffalo Peaks Ranch, it is located on Colorado State Highway 9 near the ghost town of Garo between Fairplay and Hartsel. The Guiraud Ranch was operated from 1875 until her death in 1909 by the French emigrant, Marie Guiraud. Primary and secondary education: Post-secondary and career education: Aurora straddles Interstate 70, Interstate 225 and the E-470 beltway. The Regional Transportation District's light rail transit system was extended to serve the southwestern edge of Aurora
Colorado assisted living facility license suspended. [SEP] Virginia Fraser // The ombudsmen advocated for residents of nursing homes and assisted living facilities across the state. They collected complaints from residents and advocated for them to management, but had no legal power to penalize transgressions. They also prepared an annual report for the Colorado legislature. In the early 2000s, the Colorado State Long-Term Care Ombudsman's office was cited by the United States Department of Health and Human Services as one of the "finest" in the country. As part of her visits to nursing homes, Fraser encouraged residents to form their own councils to lobby for their rights. She also created a
Colorado assisted living facility license suspended. [SEP] Assisted living // care that is otherwise synonymous. The province's "Supportive Living Accommodation Licensing Act" is a comprehensive act with specific prescriptions governing care homes licensing, inspections and more. Within the United States assisted living spectrum, there is no nationally recognized definition of assisted living. Assisted living facilities are regulated and licensed at the US state level. More than two-thirds of the states use the licensure term "assisted living." Other licensure terms used for this philosophy of care include residential care home, assisted care living facilities, and personal care homes. Each state licensing agency has its own definition of the term it uses
Colorado assisted living facility license suspended. [SEP] Eugene Sternberg // settings. In 1955, a new Colorado State project, serving those elderly who had some degree of need for medical assistance, was announced. Variously named the Trinidad State Homes for the Aged and the Trinidad State Nursing Home, it was planned to care for 159 "aged persons." The concept behind the project was that of people living in a community designed to encourage mental and physical activity and social interaction, and to provide health care - including an infirmary wing - as needed. From a central core, housing kitchen, dining area, lobby and administrative offices, a series of wings radiate outward
Colorado assisted living facility license suspended. [SEP] Assisted suicide in the United States // the Superior Court of Riverside County ruled that the method of enacting the law was unconstitutional, but the law was reinstated by a state appeals court the following month. Representatives Lois Court and Joann Ginal introduced assisted suicide legislation in 2015 in the Colorado House. The bill was voted down in committee 8-5. In April 2016, Julie Selsberg and Jaren Ducker filed an initiative with the secretary of state seeking to authorize medical aid in dying in November 2016 through the ballot process. On November 8, 2016 Colorado voters passed Proposition 106 making assisted death legal among patients with terminal
Colorado assisted living facility license suspended. [SEP] Assisted suicide // gave the verdict: "We conclude that aid in dying is not a fundamental liberty interest under the New Mexico Constitution". In November 2016, the citizens of Colorado approved Proposition 106, the Colorado End of Life Options Act, with 65% in favor. This made it the third state to legalize medical aid-in-dying by a vote of the people, raising the total to six states. The punishment for participating in physician-assisted death (PAD) varies throughout many states. The state of Wyoming does not “recognize common law crimes and does not have a statute specifically prohibiting assisted suicide”. In Florida, “every person deliberately
Colorado assisted living facility license suspended. [SEP] Colorado ex rel. Suthers v. Hall // a thread." In light of the ruling by the Colorado Supreme Court in "Brinkman v. Long" staying license issuance in Adams and Denver counties, the defendants also asked Judge Hartman to reconsider his ruling and stay it. Judge Hartman denied the state's request on July 23, 2014; he dismissed the assertion that the state supreme court's stay of "Brinkman" is binding on Boulder County as "an improper circular argument". Judge Hartman noted that the high court relied on Judge Crabtree's preexisting stay of the Denver and Adams county cases when ruling; however, no such stay exists in the Boulder case.
Colorado assisted living facility license suspended. [SEP] The Rehabilitation Center at Hollywood Hills // one victim stated that the facility had more than a week to prepare and accused the nursing home of putting profits ahead of safety. In October, Governor Scott implemented emergency rules requiring assisted living facilities and nursing homes to have generators that are capable of operating air conditioners for up to four days in the event of a power outage. On November 22, the 12 deaths at the nursing home were ruled to be homicides by heat exposure. Court hearings for the potential permanent revocation of the nursing home's license began on January 29, 2018. The deaths at the Hollywood
Colorado assisted living facility license suspended. [SEP] Colorado ex rel. Suthers v. Hall // licenses on appeal, "Colorado v. Hall", No. 2014-CA-1368 (Colo. App. July 24, 2014). In a short opinion, the court affirmed Judge Hartman and said that the state did not meet the factors in "Romero v. City of Fountain", 307 P.3d 122 (Colo. App. 2011). On July 29, 2014, the Colorado Supreme Court, in an en banc order, "sua sponte" transferred "Colorado v. Hall" before it pursuant to Colorado Appellate Rule (C.A.R.) 50(b) and ordered the record filed from the Court of Appeals on or before October 20, 2014, "Hall", No. 2014-SC-582. Furthermore, the court stayed Clerk Hall from issuing any
Colorado assisted living facility license suspended. [SEP] Brinkman v. Long // General Suthers appealed Judge Crabtree's inaction to the Colorado Supreme Court. In a separate filing, and seeking a reversal of Judge Hartman's ruling, the state attorney general also asked the high court for an emergency injunction to stop all state clerks from issuing licenses. In a July 18, 2014 unanimous order issued "en banc", the Colorado Supreme Court rejected the attorney general's request for an emergency injunction—one which would have statewide effect. However, in light of the previous stay entered by Judge Crabtree but thereafter left unenforced, the Colorado Supreme Court ordered clerks in Adams and Denver counties stop issuing
Republicans “have shown themselves willing to cut millions off their health insurance and eliminate preexisting condition protections for millions more, even in the middle of this public health crisis. [SEP] Presidency of Donald Trump // governors, all Republicans, filed a federal lawsuit in February 2018 that would end coverage for pre-existing conditions, and that the Trump administration had chosen to not challenge the suit. In October 2017, the administration ended subsidy payments to health insurance companies, saying that they are "moving toward lower costs and more options in the health care market". The decision was expected to raise premiums in 2018 for middle-class families by an average of about 20% nationwide and cost the federal government nearly $200 billion more than it saved over a ten-year period. People with lower incomes would be unaffected because
Republicans “have shown themselves willing to cut millions off their health insurance and eliminate preexisting condition protections for millions more, even in the middle of this public health crisis. [SEP] Presidency of Donald Trump // commit to continuing paying ACA subsidies, which added uncertainty to the insurance market and led insurers to raise premiums for fear they will not get subsidized. In June 2018, the administration sided with a lawsuit to overturn the ACA, including protections for individuals with pre-existing conditions. On October 4, 2018, Trump stated “Some of the Democrats have been talking about ending (coverage for) pre-existing conditions,” and 20 days later he tweeted “Republicans will totally protect people with Pre-Existing Conditions, Democrats will not!” Politifact rated Trump's statement about Democrats as “Pants on Fire,” also noting that eighteen attorneys general and two
Republicans “have shown themselves willing to cut millions off their health insurance and eliminate preexisting condition protections for millions more, even in the middle of this public health crisis. [SEP] Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 // estimated that 13million fewer persons would have health insurance by 2025, including 8million fewer on the Affordable Care Act exchanges and 5million fewer on Medicaid. Fewer persons with healthcare means lower costs for the government, so CBO estimated over $300billion in savings. This allowed Republicans to increase the size of the tax cuts in the bill. Health insurance premiums on the exchanges could rise as much as 10 percentage points more than they would otherwise. CBO later revised this estimate in 2018 to 7 million fewer insured by 2026. The Administration and its Council of Economic Advisors have made several
Republicans “have shown themselves willing to cut millions off their health insurance and eliminate preexisting condition protections for millions more, even in the middle of this public health crisis. [SEP] Political positions of the Republican Party // however, congressional Republicans expanded Medicare, supporting a new drug plan for seniors starting in 2006. In 2011, Republicans in the House of Representatives overwhelmingly voted for a proposal known as The Path to Prosperity and for major changes to Medicare, Medicaid, and the 2010 health care legislation. Many Republicans support increased health insurance portability, laws promoting coverage of pre-existing medical conditions, a cap on malpractice lawsuits, implementing a streamlined electronic medical records system, an emphasis on preventative care rather than emergency room care, and tax benefits aimed to make health insurance more affordable for the uninsured and to promote universal
Republicans “have shown themselves willing to cut millions off their health insurance and eliminate preexisting condition protections for millions more, even in the middle of this public health crisis. [SEP] Economic policy of the Barack Obama administration // majority of congressional Democrats voted for the law, while no Republicans in the House or Senate did so. Republicans, mainly in the House of Representatives, attempted on as many as 60 occasions to repeal, defund, or delay the law during Obama's tenure, but to no avail. By 2016, the law covered approximately 24 million people with health insurance via a combination of state healthcare exchanges and funding for the state-level expansion of Medicaid to more people. It lowered the rate of those without health insurance from approximately 16% in 2010 to 9% by 2015. Poltifact cited various estimates that only
Republicans “have shown themselves willing to cut millions off their health insurance and eliminate preexisting condition protections for millions more, even in the middle of this public health crisis. [SEP] Dana Rohrabacher // On May 4, 2017, Rohrabacher voted in favor of repealing the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (Obamacare) and passing the American Health Care Act. During his 2018 re-election campaign, Rohrabacher pledged to protect protections for individuals with preexisting conditions. Rohrabacher voted for his party's Obamacare replacement bill that included state waivers from rules that prohibit charging higher prices to people with pre-existing conditions. Rohrabacher was an advocate for the state of California's Proposition 187, which prohibited illegal immigrants from acquiring government services. In 2004, he sponsored an amendment that would have prohibited federal reimbursement of hospital-provided emergency care and
Republicans “have shown themselves willing to cut millions off their health insurance and eliminate preexisting condition protections for millions more, even in the middle of this public health crisis. [SEP] American Health Care Act of 2017 // "HuffPost" and "YouGov" indicating that 44 percent of Americans oppose the AHCA compared to 31 percent who supported it, with 25 percent unsure. "Vox" accused Republicans of dishonesty to their constituents, as many of them had stated their support for laws protecting pre-existing conditions but voting for the AHCA in the end which weakened federal protection for buyers with pre-existing conditions. The GOP's support of the bill and subsequent defense of it despite heavy condemnation and protests was widely condemned, with House Republicans and Speaker Paul Ryan facing the most severe criticism. The Niskanen Center stated that the GOP's successful
Republicans “have shown themselves willing to cut millions off their health insurance and eliminate preexisting condition protections for millions more, even in the middle of this public health crisis. [SEP] Barack Obama // sick people or deny them coverage for pre-existing conditions, and require every American to carry health coverage. The plan also includes medical spending cuts and taxes on insurance companies that offer expensive plans. On July 14, 2009, House Democratic leaders introduced a 1,017-page plan for overhauling the U.S. health care system, which Obama wanted Congress to approve by the end of 2009. After much public debate during the Congressional summer recess of 2009, Obama delivered a speech to a joint session of Congress on September 9 where he addressed concerns over the proposals. In March 2009, Obama lifted a ban
Republicans “have shown themselves willing to cut millions off their health insurance and eliminate preexisting condition protections for millions more, even in the middle of this public health crisis. [SEP] Catholic Democrats // and the Catholic Social Justice tradition, the group mobilized its members in opposition to Republican efforts to overturn the Affordable Care Act. The American Health Care Act (the Ryan-Trump health care bill) was withdrawn from consideration in the House of Representatives on March 24, 2017, preserving health insurance for 24 million people who otherwise would have lost it, according to the Congressional Budget Office. Responding to the child abuse allegations made against Alabama Senate candidate Roy Moore, Catholic Democrats undertook an advertising campaign appealing to Catholics in Alabama to respond forcefully to the lessons learned from the Catholic clergy abuse
Republicans “have shown themselves willing to cut millions off their health insurance and eliminate preexisting condition protections for millions more, even in the middle of this public health crisis. [SEP] Public health insurance option // public option accused President Obama of making an agreement to drop the public option from the final plan, but the record showed that the agreement was based on vote counts rather than backroom deals, as substantiated by the final vote in the Senate. In January 2013, Representative Jan Schakowsky and 44 other U.S. House of Representatives Democrats introduced , the "Public Option Deficit Reduction Act", which would amend the Affordable Care Act to create a public option. The bill would set up a government-run health insurance plan with premiums 5% to 7% percent lower than private insurance. The Congressional Budget
Roe v. Wade was passed only because Roe lied about being raped. [SEP] Roe v. Wade // that she had been raped in order to obtain a legal abortion (with the understanding that Texas law allowed abortion in cases of rape and incest). However, this scheme failed because there was no police report documenting the alleged rape. In any case, the Texas statute allowed abortion only ”for the purpose of saving the life of the mother”. She attempted to obtain an Illegal abortion, but found that the unauthorized facility had been closed down by the police. Eventually, she was referred to attorneys Linda Coffee and Sarah Weddington. (McCorvey would end up giving birth before the case was
Roe v. Wade was passed only because Roe lied about being raped. [SEP] Roe v. Wade // decided, and the child was put up for adoption.) In 1970, Coffee and Weddington filed suit in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Texas on behalf of McCorvey (under the alias Jane Roe). The defendant in the case was Dallas County District Attorney Henry Wade, who represented the State of Texas. McCorvey was no longer claiming her pregnancy was a result of rape, and later acknowledged that she had lied about having been raped. "Rape" is not mentioned in the judicial opinions in the case. On June 17, 1970, a three-judge panel of the District Court,
Roe v. Wade was passed only because Roe lied about being raped. [SEP] Roe v. Wade // Roe v. Wade Roe v. Wade, 410 U.S. 113 (1973), is a landmark decision issued in 1973 by the United States Supreme Court on the issue of the constitutionality of laws that criminalized or restricted access to abortions. The Court ruled 7–2 that a right to privacy under the Due Process Clause of the 14th Amendment extended to a woman's decision to have an abortion, but that this right must be balanced against the state's interests in regulating abortions: protecting women's health and protecting the potentiality of human life. Arguing that these state interests became stronger over the course of
Roe v. Wade was passed only because Roe lied about being raped. [SEP] Women's Health and Human Life Protection Act // abortion in 2005. The majority of a legislative "task force" then issued a report recommending that the Legislature illegalize all abortions, which would lead to a challenge of the constitutionality of "Roe v. Wade" in the United States Supreme Court. A separate minority report criticizing the process and reaching different conclusions was also released. In February 2006, the Legislature passed the "Women's Health and Human Life Protection Act", which was signed into law by Governor Mike Rounds on March 6, 2006. This law would have forbidden pregnancy termination under virtually every circumstance, including for victims of rape and incest, with
Roe v. Wade was passed only because Roe lied about being raped. [SEP] Henry Wade // declared the criminal abortion statutes were void. Both sides cross-appealed. The case worked its way through the appellate process, culminating in the Supreme Court's landmark 1973 "Roe v. Wade" decision that made abortion legal in the United States. Despite the loss of "Roe v. Wade" and its unpopularity with conservative voters, Wade himself was not blamed, and his political career did not suffer. He continued to serve in office for an additional 14 years, and he remained a fixture around the new Crowley Courts Building, where members of the Dallas Bar called him "the Chief." In 1995, the Henry Wade
Roe v. Wade was passed only because Roe lied about being raped. [SEP] Roe v. Wade // case in U.S. District Court in Texas to have "Roe v. Wade" overturned. However, the Fifth Circuit decided that her case was moot, in "McCorvey v. Hill". In a concurring opinion, Judge Edith Jones agreed that McCorvey was raising legitimate questions about emotional and other harm suffered by women who have had abortions, about increased resources available for the care of unwanted children, and about new scientific understanding of fetal development, but Jones said she was compelled to agree that the case was moot. On February 22, 2005, the Supreme Court refused to grant a writ of certiorari, and McCorvey's
Roe v. Wade was passed only because Roe lied about being raped. [SEP] Francis P. Filice // with the same name had been started in Toronto, Ontario. Brown and her helpers contacted the Toronto office, and they joined with the international organization. This helped the spread of Birthright offices on the West Coast. Of "Roe v. Wade", Filice has stated: "A purely fabricated case went to the Supreme Court and Justice Blackmun, without shame, wrote a majority opinion that is a masterpiece of false logic. The Court struck down all the laws protecting the child. In doing so they threw our legal system into a shambles. To this day, the effects are felt in the grossly unjust
Roe v. Wade was passed only because Roe lied about being raped. [SEP] Roe v. Wade // fertilization or conception, and should therefore be protected by the Constitution; the dissenting justices in "Roe" instead wrote that decisions about abortion "should be left with the people and to the political processes the people have devised to govern their affairs." Perhaps the most notable opposition to "Roe" comes from Roe herself: In 1995, Norma L. McCorvey revealed that she had become pro-life, and from then until her death in 2017, she was a vocal opponent of abortion. Justice Blackmun, who authored the "Roe" decision, stood by the analytical framework he established in "Roe" throughout his career. Despite his initial
Roe v. Wade was passed only because Roe lied about being raped. [SEP] Roe v. Wade // state statute criminalizing abortion. Every state had abortion legislation by 1900. In the United States, abortion was sometimes considered a common law crime, though Justice Blackmun would conclude that the criminalization of abortion did not have "roots in the English common-law tradition." Rather than arresting the women having the abortions, legal officials were more likely to interrogate these women to obtain evidence against the abortion provider in order to close down that provider's business. In June 1969, 21-year-old Norma McCorvey discovered she was pregnant with her third child. She returned to Dallas, Texas, where friends advised her to assert falsely
Roe v. Wade was passed only because Roe lied about being raped. [SEP] Roe v. Wade // these two provisions "facially" from the law at issue – that is, the very words of the provisions were invalid, no matter how they might be applied in any practical situation. According to the Supreme Court the task of judging whether a law puts an unconstitutional burden on a woman's right to abortion belongs with the courts and not the legislatures. Norma McCorvey became a member of the anti-abortion movement in 1995; she supported making abortion illegal until her death in 2017. In 1998, she testified to Congress: As a party to the original litigation, she sought to reopen the
Women with Stage 4 breast cancer survive longer if they have surgery, study shows [SEP] Breast cancer // women over 80 years tend to have a poorer prognosis than post-menopausal women due to several factors. Their breasts may change with their menstrual cycles, they may be nursing infants, and they may be unaware of changes in their breasts. Therefore, younger women are usually at a more advanced stage when diagnosed. There may also be biologic factors contributing to a higher risk of disease recurrence for younger women with breast cancer. Not all people with breast cancer experience their illness in the same manner. Factors such as age can have a significant impact on the way a person copes
Women with Stage 4 breast cancer survive longer if they have surgery, study shows [SEP] Cancer survival rates // survival rate close to 100% for women with stage 0 or stage I breast cancer. The 5-year relative survival rate drops to 22% for women with stage IV (metastatic) breast cancer. In cancer types with high survival rates, incidence is usually higher in the developed world, where longevity is also greater. Cancers with lower survival rates are more common in developing countries. In the United States there has been an increase in the 5-year relative survival rate between people diagnosed with cancer in 1975-1977 (48.9%) and people diagnosed with cancer in 2007-2013 (69.2%); these figures coincide with a 20% decrease
Women with Stage 4 breast cancer survive longer if they have surgery, study shows [SEP] Breast cancer // two years in women 50 to 74 years old. The medications tamoxifen or raloxifene may be used in an effort to prevent breast cancer in those who are at high risk of developing it. Surgical removal of both breasts is another preventative measure in some high risk women. In those who have been diagnosed with cancer, a number of treatments may be used, including surgery, radiation therapy, chemotherapy, hormonal therapy and targeted therapy. Types of surgery vary from breast-conserving surgery to mastectomy. Breast reconstruction may take place at the time of surgery or at a later date. In those in
Women with Stage 4 breast cancer survive longer if they have surgery, study shows [SEP] Bernard Fisher (scientist) // the lives of women suffering from this dread disease...From 1972 to 1981, the use of radical mastectomies has declined progressively from 46.8 percent to 4.5 percent. Each year from 55,000 to 60,000 women in the U.S. have breast cancer of 4 cm or less and are eligible for this breast-preserving therapy.” In 2006, Fisher was awarded the American Association for Cancer Research Award for Lifetime Achievement in Cancer Research. “Dr. Fisher's important work not only helped those who fight the disease, but has also helped prevent breast cancer in women who are at high risk,” said Margaret Foti, Ph.D., M..D.
Women with Stage 4 breast cancer survive longer if they have surgery, study shows [SEP] Breast cancer // whom the cancer has spread to other parts of the body, treatments are mostly aimed at improving quality of life and comfort. Outcomes for breast cancer vary depending on the cancer type, extent of disease, and person's age. Survival rates in the developed world are high, with between 80% and 90% of those in England and the United States alive for at least 5 years. In developing countries survival rates are poorer. Worldwide, breast cancer is the leading type of cancer in women, accounting for 25% of all cases. In 2012 it resulted in 1.68 million new cases and 522,000
Women with Stage 4 breast cancer survive longer if they have surgery, study shows [SEP] Cervical cancer // 92%, and the overall (all stages combined) five-year survival rate is about 72%. These statistics may be improved when applied to women newly diagnosed, bearing in mind that these outcomes may be partly based on the state of treatment five years ago when the women studied were first diagnosed. With treatment, 80-90% of women with stage I cancer and 60-75% of those with stage II cancer are alive 5 years after diagnosis. Survival rates decrease to 30-40% for women with stage III cancer and 15% or fewer of those with stage IV cancer five years after diagnosis. Recurrent cervical cancer
Women with Stage 4 breast cancer survive longer if they have surgery, study shows [SEP] Living Beyond Breast Cancer // step in identifying concerns specific to women with Stage IV breast cancer. In 2013-2014, LBBC carried out the first needs assessment of women diagnosed with triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC). Approximately 10-20 percent of breast cancers are triple-negative, with a higher prevalence (30%) among African-American women. Young Hispanic women, premenopausal women, and women who test positive for the BRCA1 gene mutation, also have a higher prevalence of TNBC diagnosis. The study found that TNBC-diagnosed women had a greater interest in finding diagnosis-specific resources. It also found a greater degree of fear, anxiety, and worry among TNBC women than among those with
Women with Stage 4 breast cancer survive longer if they have surgery, study shows [SEP] Alternative cancer treatments // a poorer survival time, even after controlling for type and stage of disease. In 2017, researchers at Yale School of Medicine published a paper which suggested that people who choose alternative medicine over conventional cancer treatments were more than twice as likely to die within five years of diagnosis. And specifically, in those with breast cancer, people choosing alternative medicine were 5.68 times more likely to die within five years. The reason that patients using alternative treatments die sooner may be because patients who accurately perceive that they are likely to survive do not attempt unproven remedies, and patients who
Women with Stage 4 breast cancer survive longer if they have surgery, study shows [SEP] Metastatic breast cancer // months, which can be further extended by months with stereotactic surgery. Several non-randomized studies have suggested that stereotactic surgery may provide a nearly equivalent outcome, compared with surgery followed by whole brain-irradiation. Surgery tends to reduce symptoms quickly and prolong life, with an improved quality of life. Multiple metastases (up to three) may be removed surgically with a risk similar to that of a single lesion, providing similar benefits. Adjuvant radiotherapy follows surgical resection; this combined approach has been shown to prolong median survival up to 12 months, depending on the factors noted above. There is evidence that surgery may
Women with Stage 4 breast cancer survive longer if they have surgery, study shows [SEP] Breast cancer // relatively high prevalence and long-term survival rates, research is biased towards breast cancer. Some subjects, such as cancer-related fatigue, have been studied little except in women with breast cancer. One result of breast cancer's high visibility is that statistical results can sometimes be misinterpreted, such as the claim that one in eight women will be diagnosed with breast cancer during their lives—a claim that depends on the unrealistic assumption that no woman will die of any other disease before the age of 95. This obscures the reality, which is that about ten times as many women will die from heart
Gone With A Shot? Hopeful New Signs Of Relief For Migraine Sufferers [SEP] Migraine treatment // effective for both pain and nausea in up to 75% of migraineurs. They are the initially recommended treatments for those with moderate to severe pain or those with milder symptoms who do not respond to simple analgesics. The different forms available include oral, injectable, nasal spray, and oral dissolving tablets. In general, all the triptans appear equally effective, with similar side effects. However, individuals may respond better to specific ones. Most side effects are mild, such as flushing; however, rare cases of myocardial ischemia have occurred. They are thus not recommended for people with cardiovascular disease. They are not addictive,
Gone With A Shot? Hopeful New Signs Of Relief For Migraine Sufferers [SEP] 2015 Goody's Headache Relief Shot 500 // wow, we’re going to Homestead! I can’t believe it. What an incredible battle that was.” He also added that he thought "the thing that's probably been more of an impact on me is just when we haven't performed the way that we want to, the way that I feel like we should, you just feel like you're disappointing people. That's tough. That weighs on you," he said. "You sit there, I don't even know how to describe it, but you just constantly have that over you. Not pressure as much as I don't know how to describe it. ... It's
Gone With A Shot? Hopeful New Signs Of Relief For Migraine Sufferers [SEP] Migraine treatment // but they are an exceedingly potent cause of medication overuse headaches if used more than 10 days per month. Ergotamine and dihydroergotamine (DHE) are older medications still prescribed for migraines, the latter in nasal spray and injectable forms. They appear equally effective to the triptans, are less expensive, and experience adverse effects that typically are benign. In the most debilitating cases, such as those with status migrainosus, they appear to be the most effective treatment option. The most common adverse effects are nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, generalized weakness, tiredness, malaise, paresthesia, coldness, muscle pains, diarrhea, and chest tightness. These are
Gone With A Shot? Hopeful New Signs Of Relief For Migraine Sufferers [SEP] Migraine // to standard treatment of a migraine attack, is associated with a 26% decrease in headache recurrence in the following 72 hours. Spinal manipulation for treating an ongoing migraine headache is not supported by evidence. It is recommended that opioids and barbiturates not be used due to questionable efficacy, addictive potential, and the risk of rebound headache. Ibuprofen helps decrease pain in children with migraines. Paracetamol does not appear to be effective in providing pain relief. Triptans are effective, though there is a risk of causing minor side effects like taste disturbance, nasal symptoms, dizziness, fatigue, low energy, nausea, or vomiting.
Gone With A Shot? Hopeful New Signs Of Relief For Migraine Sufferers [SEP] Prevention of migraines // in a day facility. Migraine surgery which involves decompression of certain nerves around the head and neck may be an option in certain people who do not improve with medications. It is only effective in those who respond well to Botox injections in specific areas. Botulinum neurotoxin (Botox) injections have been approved in the US and UK for prevention of chronic migraines, but do not appear to work for episodic migraines. Several invasive surgical procedures are currently under investigation. One involves the surgical removal of specific muscles or the transection of specific cranial nerve branches in the area of one
Gone With A Shot? Hopeful New Signs Of Relief For Migraine Sufferers [SEP] Migraine // Topiramate and botulinum toxin (Botox) are the only medications with evidence in treating chronic migraine. Botulinum toxin has been found to be useful in those with chronic migraines but not those with episodic ones. Long-term prognosis in people with migraines is variable. Most people with migraines have periods of lost productivity due to their disease; however typically the condition is fairly benign and is not associated with an increased risk of death. There are four main patterns to the disease: symptoms can resolve completely, symptoms can continue but become gradually less with time, symptoms may continue at the same frequency
Gone With A Shot? Hopeful New Signs Of Relief For Migraine Sufferers [SEP] Migraine treatment // less common with DHE than with ergotamine tartrate. Intravenous metoclopramide or intranasal lidocaine are other potential options. Metoclopramide is the recommended treatment for those who present to the emergency department. A single dose of intravenous dexamethasone, when added to standard treatment of a migraine attack, is associated with a 26% decrease in headache recurrence in the following 72 hours. Spinal manipulation for treating an ongoing migraine headache is not supported by evidence. It is recommended that opioids and barbiturates not be used. Migraine treatment Migraine treatment may be either prophylactic (preventive) or abortive (rescue). Prevention is better than cure, so
Gone With A Shot? Hopeful New Signs Of Relief For Migraine Sufferers [SEP] Migraine // most. Recommended initial treatment for those with mild to moderate symptoms are simple analgesics such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) or the combination of paracetamol (also known as acetaminophen), aspirin, and caffeine. Several NSAIDs, including diclofenac and ibuprofen have evidence to support their use. Aspirin can relieve moderate to severe migraine pain, with an effectiveness similar to sumatriptan. Ketorolac is available in an intravenous formulation. Paracetamol, either alone or in combination with metoclopramide, is another effective treatment with a low risk of adverse effects. Intravenous metoclopramide is also effective by itself. In pregnancy, paracetamol and metoclopramide are deemed safe as
Gone With A Shot? Hopeful New Signs Of Relief For Migraine Sufferers [SEP] Migraine treatment // become more severe and more frequent. This may occur with triptans, ergotamines, and analgesics, especially narcotic analgesics. Recommended initial treatment for those with mild to moderate symptoms are simple analgesics such as non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) or the combination of acetaminophen (paracetamol), acetylsalicylic acid, and caffeine. A number of NSAIDs have been shown to be effective. Ibuprofen provides effective pain relief in about 50%. Diclofenac has been found effective. A number of NSAIDs have evidence to support their use. Ibuprofen has been found to provide effective pain relief in about 50% of migraine attacks. The widespread use of NSAIDs has
Gone With A Shot? Hopeful New Signs Of Relief For Migraine Sufferers [SEP] Migraine treatment // perception. Biofeedback to induce muscle relaxation is widely used in migraine prevention. OnabotulinumtoxinA (trade name Botox) received FDA approval for treatment of chronic migraines (occurring more than 15 days per month) in 2010. The toxin is injected into the muscles of head and neck. Approval followed evidence presented to the agency from two studies funded by Allergan, Inc. showing a very slight improvement in incidence of chronic migraines for migraine sufferers undergoing the Botox treatment. Since then, several randomized control trials have shown Botulinum Toxin Type A to improve headache symptoms and quality of life when used prophylactically for patients
Dubai displays tech reputation with global robotics contest. [SEP] Sepuluh Nopember Institute of Technology // Asia-Pacific Robot Contest (ABU Robocon) in Hong Kong. 2014, a team of students was given the Second Runner Up and Best Engineering Award at the ABU Asia-Pacific Robot Contest (ABU Robocon) in Pune India. 2016, a team of students (ICHIRO) was given 10 medals at 21st FIRA Hurocup in Beijing China. 2016, a team of students (Barunastra) was given The Second Runner Up and Best Speed and Maneuverability at 9TH ANNUAL INTERNATIONAL ROBOBOAT COMPETITION - AUVSI Foundation in Virginia USA. 2017, a team of students (ICHIRO) was given 14 medals at 22nd FIRA Hurocup in kaohsiung Taiwan. Decades ago, ITS
Dubai displays tech reputation with global robotics contest. [SEP] Techfest // prizes above INR 1 Million at stake, the teams battle in the largest arena in India in various weight categories like 120 lbs, 60 lbs and 30 lbs. The show runs throughout the day and provides unfaltering entertainment for everyone present. The show is anchored by Faruq Tauheed, the official anchor for Battlebots, the most famous competition of combat robotics. With lights and flames added for the night shows, International Robowars hosts one of the largest crowds in the world of over 6000 to have come to watch combat robotics. The event is bedizened with resplendent artist performances and glamorous
Dubai displays tech reputation with global robotics contest. [SEP] Edutech // school to emerge as the top UAE team in the Olympiad was sent to the World Robotic Olympiad in China. Edutech conducted the NRO in 2007 in Qatar and in the UAE again in 2007. In 2008, the NRO was held in Qatar for the second time by Edutech and Qatar Independent Technical School ( QITS) and was conducted in UAE for the third year by the Abu Dhabi Education Council ( ADEC) and supported by Edutech. Edutech has partnerships with a number of companies including Echo 360, Questionmark Corporation, Capita Sims, Elluminate, LexisNexis, ByWater Solutions Britannica online, Vernier, Vex
Dubai displays tech reputation with global robotics contest. [SEP] ABU Robocon // ABU Robocon The ABU Asia-Pacific Robot Contest (ABU Robocon) is an Asian Oceanian College robot competition, founded in 2002 by Asia-Pacific Broadcasting Union. In the competition robots compete to complete a task within a set period of time. The contest aims to create friendship among young people with similar interests who will lead their countries in the 21st century, as well as help advance engineering and broadcasting technologies in the region. The event is broadcast in many countries through ABU member broadcasters. ABU Robocon extended the concept from NHK Robocon which started in 1991 and restricted to teams from Japan
Dubai displays tech reputation with global robotics contest. [SEP] ABU Robocon // Lighting Happiness with Friendship. The winner is Dhurakij Pundit University coming from Thailand. The ABU Robocon2010 was held in Cairo, Egypt on 22 September 2010 where 18 Engineering Colleges from 17 countries participated. The Theme for Robocon 2010 declared by Egypt was Robo-Pharaohs Build Pyramids. It was won by University of Electronic Science and Technology of China to give China its 4th overwhelming win. The ABU Robocon 2009 was held in Tokyo, Japan on 22 August 2009 with the Theme of Kago, the traditional Japanese palanquin, carried by human beings replaced by robots. The winners were a team from China
Dubai displays tech reputation with global robotics contest. [SEP] Robocon India // won by Institute of Technology, Nirma University. The domestic contest was won by Institute of Technology, Nirma University. The domestic contest was won by Institute of Technology, Nirma University. Robocon India Robocon (short for Robotic Contest) is organised by Asia-Pacific Broadcasting Union (ABU), a collection of over 20 countries of Asia Pacific Region. NHK, Japan had already been organising such contests at national level and also became the host of the first ABU Robocon in 2002. Since then, every year one of the member broadcasters hosts this international event. The broadcasters of each participant country are responsible for conduct of
Dubai displays tech reputation with global robotics contest. [SEP] Edutech // Robotics, Quanser, etc. - United Arab Emirates: Dubai, Abu Dhabi- USA: Northbrook- India: Chennai, New Delhi, Bangalore, Mumbai, Hyderabad, Kolkata- Kingdom of Saudi Arabia: Riyadh, Jeddah, Khobar- Oman: Muscat- Qatar: Doha- Kuwait: Kuwait- Bahrain: Manama- Jordan: Amman Edutech Edutech is a privately held, learning company headquartered in Dubai, UAE. Edutech was founded in 1991 in Dubai by M.D. ASF Karim. It started operations in India in 1998 and in the US in 2006. Edutech has offices in 16 international cities in Asia and the US. Edutech conducted the National ... Robotics Olympiad (NRO) in the UAE for the first time
Dubai displays tech reputation with global robotics contest. [SEP] ABU Robocon // on a golden disk on the opposite side. The winner of ABU Robocon 2018 is Lac Hong University coming from Vietnam. The ABU Robocon 2017 was held at Tokyo, Japan in the month of August. The theme is "Asobi: The landing disc". The theme revolves around the word “asobi” (play), which is also a fundamental philosophy behind Robocon. In “asobi,” playful, unique, original show of skills is often more important than winning or losing, as everyone – friend and foe alike – can applaud and enjoy them. So, in the “asobi” spirit: we encourage playful, unique, original robot designs and
Dubai displays tech reputation with global robotics contest. [SEP] ABU Robocon // who completed the task consistently in 18 seconds. It was won by Harbin Institute of Technology to give China its third successive win. The ABU Robocon 2008 was held at Maharashtra Institute of Technology (MIT), Pune, India on 31 August 2008, where 17 Engineering Colleges from 16 countries participated. The Theme for Robocon 2008 declared by India was Govinda, a traditional Indian Deity who used to play earthly games by capturing Butter/Cheese from heads of Gopis. ABU Robocon The ABU Asia-Pacific Robot Contest (ABU Robocon) is an Asian Oceanian College robot competition, founded in 2002 by Asia-Pacific Broadcasting Union. In
Dubai displays tech reputation with global robotics contest. [SEP] Dubai English Speaking College // with clubs including a robotics club, multiple ecology-related activities, and several clubs aimed at the development of leadership skills (such as an enterprise club). The International Award (sometimes known as the Duke of Edinburgh award) is an international youth awards programme, founded in the UK. As of December 2016, schools from over 144 countries are participating. The award recognises adolescents and young adults for completing a series of self-improvement exercises, aimed at bringing together practical experiences and life skills in order to equip those who participate in it. Dubai English Speaking College allows students from Year 10 up to Year
An implant that hits a nerve [SEP] Sexuality after spinal cord injury // Electrical stimulation of efferent nerves at the S2 level can be used to trigger an erection that lasts as long as the stimulation does. Surgical implants, either of flexible rods or inflatable tubes, are reserved for when other methods fail because of the potential for serious complications, which occur in as many as 10% of cases. They carry the risk of eroding penile tissue (breaking through the skin). Although satisfaction among men who use them is high, if they do need to be removed implants make other methods such as injections and vacuum devices unusable due to tissue damage. It
An implant that hits a nerve [SEP] Neuromodulation (medicine) // to the spinal cord. In patients who experience pain reduction of 50 percent or more during a temporary trial, a permanent implant may be offered in which, as with a cardiac pacemaker, an implantable pulse generator about the size of a stopwatch is placed under the skin on the trunk. It delivers mild impulses along slender electrical leads leading to small electrical contacts, about the size of a grain of rice, at the area of the spine to be stimulated. Stimulation is typically in the 20–200 Hz range, though a novel class of stimulation parameters are now emerging that employ
An implant that hits a nerve [SEP] Neurotrophic electrode // an intermittent signal after it had become anchored in the neuropil, and as a result, Dr. Kennedy was forced to rely on the remaining devices. Therefore, even if there is no complication from surgery, there is still a possibility that the electronics will fail. In addition, while the implants themselves are encased in the skull and are therefore relatively safe from physical damage, the electronics on the outside of the skull are vulnerable. Two of Dr. Kennedy's patients accidentally caused damage during spasms, but in both cases only the external devices needed to be replaced. As of November 2010, Dr.
An implant that hits a nerve [SEP] Chronic electrode implant // Chronic electrode implant A chronic electrode implant is an electronic device implanted chronically (for a long period) into the brain or other electrically excitable tissue. It may record electrical impulses in the brain or may stimulate neurons with electrical impulses from an external source. The potential for neural interfacing technology to restore lost sensory or motor function is staggering; victims of paralysis due to peripheral nerve injury could achieve a full recovery by directly recording the output of their motor cortex, but the technology is immature and unreliable. There are numerous examples in the literature of intra-cortical electrode recording used
An implant that hits a nerve [SEP] Retinal implant // damaged. Since the nerve fiber layer has similar stimulation threshold to that of the retinal ganglion cells, axons passing under the epiretinal electrodes are stimulated, creating arcuate percepts, and thereby distorting the retinotopic map. So far, none of the epiretinal implants had light-sensitive pixels, and hence they rely on external camera for capturing the visual information. Therefore, unlike natural vision, eye movements do not shift the transmitted image on the retina, which creates a perception of the moving object when person with such an implant changes the direction of gaze. Therefore, patients with such implants are asked to not move
An implant that hits a nerve [SEP] Implant failure // implants are used to treat severe to profound hearing loss by electrically stimulating the hearing nerve. Clinical symptoms of cochlear implant failure include auditory symptoms (tinnitus, buzzing, roaring, popping sounds), non-auditory symptoms (pain, shocking sensation, burning sensation, facial stimulation, itching), and decrease in the patient's hearing performance. When such symptoms occur, the patient's clinical team evaluates the patient and the device using in-situ methods, and determines if revision surgery is necessary. The most commonly reported device failures are due to impacts, loss of hermeticity, and electrode lead malfunctions. Most manufacturers provide on their websites the survival rate of their marketed
An implant that hits a nerve [SEP] Vagus nerve stimulation // electrical impulses to the nerve. Implantation of the VNS device is usually done as an out-patient procedure. The procedure goes as follows: an incision is made in the upper left chest and the generator is implanted into a little "pouch" on the left chest under the collarbone. A second incision is made in the neck, so that the surgeon can access the vagus nerve. The surgeon then wraps the leads around the left branch of the vagus nerve, and connects the electrodes to the generator. Once successfully implanted, the generator sends electric impulses to the vagus nerve at regular intervals.
An implant that hits a nerve [SEP] Brain–computer interface // which can make brain signals weaker. In addition, according to the research of Abdulkader at al., (2015), once implanted electrodes, the body may not accept the electrodes which may cause medical complications. Invasive BCI research has targeted repairing damaged sight and providing new functionality for people with paralysis. Invasive BCIs are implanted directly into the grey matter of the brain during neurosurgery. Because they lie in the grey matter, invasive devices produce the highest quality signals of BCI devices but are prone to scar-tissue build-up, causing the signal to become weaker, or even non-existent, as the body reacts to a
An implant that hits a nerve [SEP] Implant (medicine) // the brain produce the highest quality signals, but are prone to scar-tissue build-up, causing the signal to become weaker, or even non-existent, as the body reacts to a foreign object in the brain. In 2018, "Implant files", an investigation made by ICIJ revealed that medical devices that are unsafe and have not been adequately tested were implanted in patients' bodies. In United Kingdom, Prof Derek Alderson, president of the Royal College of Surgeons, concludes: "All implantable devices should be registered and tracked to monitor efficacy and patient safety in the long-term." Implant (medicine) An implant is a medical device manufactured
An implant that hits a nerve [SEP] Brain implant // between neural systems and computer chips. This work is part of a wider research field called brain-computer interfaces. (Brain-computer interface research also includes technology such as EEG arrays that allow interface between mind and machine but do not require direct implantation of a device.) Neural implants such as deep brain stimulation and Vagus nerve stimulation are increasingly becoming routine for patients with Parkinson's disease and clinical depression respectively. Brain implants electrically stimulate, block or record (or both record and stimulate simultaneously) signals from single neurons or groups of neurons (biological neural networks) in the brain. The blocking technique is called
A TEDx speaker gave a talk that referred to pedophilia as an 'unchangeable sexual orientation.' [SEP] Pedophilia // numbers and instead requires careful consideration of the situation. Ego-dystonic sexual orientation () includes people who acknowledge that they have a sexual preference for prepubertal children, but wish to change it due to the associated psychological or behavioral problems (or both). There was discussion on the DSM-IV-TR being overinclusive and underinclusive. Its criterion A concerns sexual fantasies or sexual urges regarding prepubescent children, and its criterion B concerns acting on those urges or the urges causing marked distress or interpersonal difficulty. Several researchers discussed whether or not a "contented pedophile"—an individual who fantasizes about having sex with a child and
A TEDx speaker gave a talk that referred to pedophilia as an 'unchangeable sexual orientation.' [SEP] Homosexual agenda // and gay men pose a threat to society, to families, and to children in particular." GLAAD considers assertions linking pedophilia and homosexuality to be defamatory, damaging and entirely inaccurate. Some writers have described the term as pejorative. In a press conference on December 22, 2010, U.S. Representative Barney Frank said that the "gay agenda" is Sportscaster L. Z. Grandersen argues in his TED talk that the "gay agenda" is simply the 14th Amendment. A satirical article by Michael Swift which appeared in the "Gay Community News" in February 1987 entitled "Gay Revolutionary" describes a scenario in which homosexual men dominate
A TEDx speaker gave a talk that referred to pedophilia as an 'unchangeable sexual orientation.' [SEP] Anwesh Sahoo // the two. He imagines a world where one's identity isn't limited to the binary male or female, but can manifest as a spectrum of infinite possibilities. His second TEDx talk, "Tapping into your Alice," related to growing up in a society that did not know how to deal with those who did not conform to gender stereotypes, in addition to how adulthood drains us of our belief in magic. Anwesh's third talk was called, "How I chose to be gay, femme, and sexy", where he spoke of how "Effeminacy and femininity aren't euphemisms for indignity; being gay, femme, brown, being
A TEDx speaker gave a talk that referred to pedophilia as an 'unchangeable sexual orientation.' [SEP] Michael C. Seto // offending. He has suggested in his book on pedophilia and sexual offending that perhaps 3% of men are sexually attracted to prepubescent children. Pedophilia is related to sexual offending against children, but they are not synonymous: Some pedophiles are not known to have ever committed sexual offenses against children, and some offenders are not pedophiles, motivated instead by high sex drive, criminality, or opportunism. Controversially, Seto has suggested that pedophilia can be understood as a sexual orientation with regard to age, just as heterosexuality, bisexuality, or homosexuality can be understood as sexual orientations with regard to gender. In his research
A TEDx speaker gave a talk that referred to pedophilia as an 'unchangeable sexual orientation.' [SEP] Pedophilia // commented: "'[S]exual orientation' is not a term used in the diagnostic criteria for pedophilic disorder and its use in the DSM-5 text discussion is an error and should read 'sexual interest.'" They added, "In fact, APA considers pedophilic disorder a 'paraphilia,' not a 'sexual orientation.' This error will be corrected in the electronic version of DSM-5 and the next printing of the manual." They said they strongly support efforts to criminally prosecute those who sexually abuse and exploit children and adolescents, and "also support continued efforts to develop treatments for those with pedophilic disorder with the goal of preventing future
A TEDx speaker gave a talk that referred to pedophilia as an 'unchangeable sexual orientation.' [SEP] Ray Blanchard // pedophilia, in which he summarized and attempted to address the criticism over the DSM-IV-TR definition of pedophilia. The DSM-5 diagnosis initially proposed a new name ("pedohebophilic disorder") and the rationale for the change cited several of Blanchard's scientific publications. In the end, the "pedohebephilic disorder" proposal was rejected, but the name was changed from "pedophilia" to "pedophilic disorder", reflecting the DSM-5's general distinction between paraphilia and paraphilic disorder. Blanchard noted that both Richard Green and William O'Donohue remarked that a so-called "contended pedophile"—an individual who fantasizes about having sex with a child, but does not commit child sexual abuse, but
A TEDx speaker gave a talk that referred to pedophilia as an 'unchangeable sexual orientation.' [SEP] Erotic target location error // anthropomorphic animal. Whereas pedophilia refers to the sexual preference for children, paraphilic infantilism refers to the sexual interest in being a child. The parallels between gender identity disorder and apotemnophilia have been noted, as have the similarities between gender identity disorder and species identity disorder. There are many subcultures of people who are interested in transforming themselves to various degrees and interacting in their new role or identity. Such interactions can include sexual interactions with other members of the community. There is debate in these communities regarding whether their desire to transform is based on their sexual interests in the
A TEDx speaker gave a talk that referred to pedophilia as an 'unchangeable sexual orientation.' [SEP] Ben Carson 2016 presidential campaign // of bestiality. A number of students at the Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, "enraged by Carson's comparison of homosexuality with bestiality and pedophilia," called upon Carson to withdraw as a commencement speaker. Carson withdrew as speaker and apologized for his remarks, saying that he was not equating those groups. He said:You know, as a Christian... I have a duty to love all people and that includes people who have other sexual orientations, and I certainly do, and never had any intention of offending anyone. What I was basically saying, and if anybody was offended, I apologize to you. But what
A TEDx speaker gave a talk that referred to pedophilia as an 'unchangeable sexual orientation.' [SEP] Fiona Simpson // including gay and lesbian teachers, Simpson referred to acquaintances who are 'former' homosexuals. Simpson also said that she had previously interviewed Sy Rogers, a leader in ministering to 'former' homosexuals within the controversial ex-gay movement, specifically from Exodus International. In her speech to Parliament, Simpson contrasted what she called "some very genuinely held beliefs" that homosexuality is an unchangeable, born trait with those who believe that homosexuality is a "lifestyle choice", such that homosexuals may choose to "grow into heterosexuality over time". Media attention was brought to these comments in 2011, and despite the comments drawing criticism from Karen Struthers,
A TEDx speaker gave a talk that referred to pedophilia as an 'unchangeable sexual orientation.' [SEP] TED (conference) // In her 2010 TED Talk, comedian Sarah Silverman referred to adopting a "retarded" child. TED organizer Chris Anderson objected via his Twitter account, leading to a Twitter skirmish between them. Also in 2010, noted statistician Nassim Taleb called TED a "monstrosity that turns scientists and thinkers into low-level entertainers, like circus performers." He claimed TED curators did not initially post his talk "warning about the financial crisis" on their site on purely cosmetic grounds. Nick Hanauer spoke at TED University, challenging the popular belief that top income earners in America are the engines of job creation. TED was accused of
Photographs show a homeless shelter with painted social-distancing boxes in a Las Vegas parking lot. [SEP] I Have A Name Project // and written word. IHAN aimed to make a mural relating to homelessness. Linton believes that college students can help the homeless. Linton and the project have put on photo exhibits in Phoenix and Tucson, Arizona. In the exhibits, the photos were only accompanied by the names of the subjects. The photos have been described as having quiet solidity, an air of survived desertion, simple, and giving of an air of aloneness. IHAN displayed photos in conjunction with the Carlos G. Figueroa foundation. Figueroa was an Arizona homeless man who was murdered and robbed in 2003. One observer wrote: "the subject
Photographs show a homeless shelter with painted social-distancing boxes in a Las Vegas parking lot. [SEP] Anthony Hernandez (photographer) // toward capturing scenes suggesting abandonment and desolation absent of human players yet charged with intrigue about their involvement. The pictures also reveal another signature tactic of his compositions, which is to offer visual allure that draws a viewer into troubling subject matter. The photographer likens this series with his earlier "Automobile Landscapes." His "Landscapes for the Homeless" series, which he produced from 1988–1991, captured images of homelessness sites located near and under Los Angeles freeways, focusing exclusively on the inhabitants' makeshift shelters and discarded refuse nearby. This suite of photographs was unique in their focus on the evidence of homelessness,
Photographs show a homeless shelter with painted social-distancing boxes in a Las Vegas parking lot. [SEP] Jon Peterson (artist) // paper paintings (1976) and wall drawings (1978) at Newspace in Los Angeles. Peterson’s 1977 sculpture show at Newspace featured brightly-colored, geometric, cage-like structures alluding to those absent bodies that would later occupy his bum (bad) shelters. Inspired by neighboring artists’ anonymous interventions in the street, as well as skid row's homeless occupants, he constructed Masonite and Fiberglass single-body shelters in his studio, which he inserted amidst downtown’s craggy terrain. In 1979, he exhibited photomontages documenting each shelter's installation, occupation and use, in editions of 10, so as to finance their demand. Between 1979 and 1983, he was commissioned by the
Photographs show a homeless shelter with painted social-distancing boxes in a Las Vegas parking lot. [SEP] Michael Leavitt (artist) // the homeless? It is an odd invention indeed. But it may also be a solutions of sorts for homelessness in Seattle."(Real Change) To improve on his first designs, Leavitt built a third unit in 2001 using vinyl siding scraps salvaged from construction debris. Though designed as a domestic dwelling, the unit was used for 7 years as secure storage and nighttime security posts in the tent cities until it was dismantled in 2008. With his "ArtCards" from 2001 to 2003 Leavitt painted small portraits of famous and lesser-known artists, re-printed like traditional baseball cards. "I had so many ideas- too
Photographs show a homeless shelter with painted social-distancing boxes in a Las Vegas parking lot. [SEP] Girl (Beck song) // car that this fold makes. The next fold takes place on a sidewalk, where a little girl is doing a chalk drawing. She sets down the chalk and walks away, the side walk folds and it takes the form of human outline, with police and the yellow tape around it. The fold after this one is a homeless person begging on the corner when Beck is driving by. The man holds a sign in his hand which says "Loose Change OK Allan's Anyway". The man proceeds to fold the sign, which now reads "Look Away". Later in the video, a
Photographs show a homeless shelter with painted social-distancing boxes in a Las Vegas parking lot. [SEP] Jon Peterson (artist) // Clothier observed: “Provided that he was prepared to allow his work this liberty, at large in the community, the artist could continue to work in the traditions of his artistic heritage, while at the same time make his ‘offering’ to a public that would otherwise have spurned the work as irrelevant to their world” Richard Ross (photographer) remarked, “Peterson offers these people physical security in exchange for making a basically closed society more public.” His bum (bad) shelters anticipated Krzysztof Wodiczko’s "Homeless Vehicle Project" (1987-1989) and Michael Rakowitz’s "ParaSITE homeless shelter"(1997). Regarding their longevity, Constance Mallinson recalls, “Aside from photo
Photographs show a homeless shelter with painted social-distancing boxes in a Las Vegas parking lot. [SEP] Noam Braslavsky // usual white cubes). An especially well-known work, "Shelter" (concrete, steel, glass, Plexiglas and sea-shells) from 1992, came to a legendary end when it was set on fire in an act of sabotage years later at his major solo exhibition "Magic as Existential Need" in Tel Aviv; only the steel frame and the concrete pedestals survived. Braslavsky’s works are traps that take their cues from sacred architecture, nature and society. He analyzes manipulative mechanisms that influence and control the human psyche, translating them in simplified form into rooms. Some examples are artificial wombs, purring machines, compulsive hats, labyrinths and enormous cocoons.
Photographs show a homeless shelter with painted social-distancing boxes in a Las Vegas parking lot. [SEP] Milovan Destil Marković // setting: unemployment, homelessness and social – that is: public – invisibility. In contrast to the women’s portraits in which, by looking at the figure-less images, we rely on our memorized images to try to recall the women’s “real” faces as we know them from the media, in Marković’s portraits of homeless men, we are facing pictures of individuals who are anonymous to us, as they belong to a social group that each society in which they live tends to make invisible. These text portraits are based upon interviews Marković performed with homeless men in various world capitals. They represent the
Photographs show a homeless shelter with painted social-distancing boxes in a Las Vegas parking lot. [SEP] Beneath the Neon // black-and-gray underworld of the Las Vegas flood-control system. In 2008, National Public Radio reporter Adam Burke accompanied the author into the tunnels to meet and interview some of the homeless people documented in the book. In September 2009, an ABC "Nightline" news team went into the tunnels with O'Brien as well to illustrate for viewers the stories of homeless people included in "Beneath the Neon". In June 2008, an exhibit based on the book was built and displayed for two months at the Contemporary Arts Collective in the Arts Factory in downtown Las Vegas. To recreate the feeling of life
Photographs show a homeless shelter with painted social-distancing boxes in a Las Vegas parking lot. [SEP] Sukkah City // without solid shelter over their heads. It goes up in the fall, just when it's no longer entirely comfortable to be outside. One of the winning entries, the Sukkah of the Signs designed by architects Ronald Rael and Virginia San Fratello, clad the sukkah structure with several hundred homeless signs collected from the homeless around the United States. Sukkah City Sukkah City was an Architectural design competition and work of installation art planned in partnership with the Union Square Partnership for New York City's Union Square Park in September 2010. A committee of art critics and architects selected 12 winners
UN agency: Tanzania not sharing details on Ebola-like cases. [SEP] 2014 Democratic Republic of the Congo Ebola virus outbreak // remote northern Équateur province who fell ill after handling bushmeat. Despite treatment in a local clinic, the woman died on 11 August 2014. At the time of her death, her diagnosis was hemorrhagic fever of unknown etiology. Subsequent laboratory studies confirmed she had died of Ebola virus disease. Medecins Sans Frontieres/Doctors without Borders (MSF) deployed a team of 50 staff to the area and opened two treatment centres with a combined capacity of 50 beds. MSF, together with the country's Ministry of Health and the World Health Organization (WHO) worked to heighten public awareness and ensure that surveillance, contact tracing
UN agency: Tanzania not sharing details on Ebola-like cases. [SEP] 2018 Kivu Ebola outbreak // zones. The five suspected cases in the Mambasa Health Zone proved not to be EVD; it was not possible to confirm the one probable case in the Musienene Health Zone and the two probable cases in the Butembo health zone. No new cases had been recorded in any of those health zones. The first confirmed case in Butembo was announced on 4 September, the same day that it was announced that one of the cases registered at Beni had actually come from the Kalunguta Health Zone. The DRC Ministry of Public Health confirmed that the new Ebola outbreak is caused
UN agency: Tanzania not sharing details on Ebola-like cases. [SEP] Science and technology in Tanzania // the African Regional Intellectual Property Organisation. Tanzania is one of the signatories of the Gaborone Declaration for Sustainability in Africa (2012). The Ebola epidemic in 2014 highlighted the challenge of mobilizing funds, equipment and human resources to manage a rapidly evolving health crisis. In 2015, the United States of America decided to invest US$1 billion over the next five years in preventing, detecting and responding to future infectious disease outbreaks in 17 countries, within its Global Health Security Agenda. Tanzania is one of these 17 countries. The others are: (in Africa) Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Côte d'Ivoire, Ethiopia, Guinea, Kenya, Liberia,
UN agency: Tanzania not sharing details on Ebola-like cases. [SEP] Ebola virus cases in the United States // from countries with confirmed Ebola cases." On October 16, Navarro's Vice-President Dewayne Gragg issued a statement confirming that there had indeed been a decision to "postpone our recruitment in those nations that the Center for Disease Control and the U.S. State Department have identified as at risk." Nigeria's outbreak was among the least severe in West Africa and was considered over by the WHO on 20 October; the Nigerian health ministry had previously announced on 22 September that there were no confirmed cases of Ebola within the country. In October 2014, the S. I. Newhouse School of Public Communications at
UN agency: Tanzania not sharing details on Ebola-like cases. [SEP] Responses to the West African Ebola virus epidemic // disease. Up until the end of September, the humanitarian aid organisation Médecins Sans Frontières ("Doctors Without Borders") is the leading organization responding to the crisis, with several treatment centers in the area. Samaritan's Purse has also provided direct patient care and medical support in Liberia; many nations and charitable organizations, foundations, and individuals have also pledged assistance to control the epidemic. , a massive international response to the crisis is under way. The United Nations Mission for Ebola Emergency Response (UNMEER) has the task of overall planning and coordination, directing the efforts of the UN agencies, national governments, and other
UN agency: Tanzania not sharing details on Ebola-like cases. [SEP] West African Ebola virus epidemic timeline of reported cases and deaths // yet known decisively, but scientists have enough knowledge to go public with the story. Data comes from reports by the World Health Organization Global Alert and Response Unit and the WHO's Regional Office for Africa. All numbers are correlated with United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA), if available. The reports are sourced from official information from the affected countries' health ministries. The WHO has stated the reported numbers "vastly underestimate the magnitude of the outbreak", estimating there may be 3 times as many cases as officially reported. Each row of the table represents the best available
UN agency: Tanzania not sharing details on Ebola-like cases. [SEP] West African Ebola virus epidemic // facilities and supplies. In October, the Liberian ambassador in Washington was reported as saying that he feared that his country may be "close to collapse". By 24 October, all of the 15 Liberian districts had reported Ebola cases. By November 2014, the rate of new infections in Liberia appeared to be declining and the state of emergency was lifted. The drop in cases was believed to be related to an integrated strategy combining isolation and treatment with community behaviour change, including safe burial practices, case finding and contact tracing. In January 2015, the MSF field coordinator reported that Liberia was
UN agency: Tanzania not sharing details on Ebola-like cases. [SEP] West African Ebola virus epidemic // called the WHO regional office in Africa "really not competent." In April 2015, the WHO admitted very serious failings in handling the crisis and indicated reforms for any future crises; "we did not work effectively in coordination with other partners, there were shortcomings in risk communications and there was confusion of roles and responsibilities". The Ebola crisis was discussed at the June 2015 G7 meeting. The leaders pledged to assist in carrying out World Health Organization regulations. Critics criticized the G7 leaders, saying they were not committed enough in the fight against the possibility of future pandemics. In 2015 a
UN agency: Tanzania not sharing details on Ebola-like cases. [SEP] Matthew Lukwiya // for suspected Ebola cases, in line with the WHO guidelines. The special ward was staffed by three physicians, five nurses and five nursing assistants, all volunteers. When a South African lab confirmed the Ebola outbreak on 15 October, and a WHO delegation arrived in Gulu, they were astonished at the efficiency of the operation. Dr. Simon Mardel, a member of the WHO team, stated, Finding that their assistance was not required at St. Mary's, the WHO and Médecins Sans Frontières rapid response teams offered their assistance at Gulu Regional Referral Hospital, where they found corpses abandoned in their hospital beds.
UN agency: Tanzania not sharing details on Ebola-like cases. [SEP] Responses to the West African Ebola virus epidemic // society. Accra, in Ghana, will serve as a base for UNMEER, with teams in Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone. A United Nations General Assembly document, the Report of the Secretary-General on UNMEER and the Office of the Special Envoy on Ebola (A/69/404), issued on 24 September 2014, details UNMEER's proposed mission, budget, and structure.<ref name="Report of the Secretary-General (A/69/404)"></ref> In July 2014, the World Health Organization (WHO) convened an emergency sub-regional meeting with health ministers from eleven countries in Accra, Ghana to tackle the ongoing Ebola virus outbreak in West Africa. On 3 July, the West African states announced collaboration
Pope Francis uses a modest compact car to get around, while Creflo Dollar drives an expensive sports car. [SEP] Popemobile // a papal limousine. For trips within the Vatican City he used a small Ford Focus from the Vatican motor pool. He also drove himself around the city in a 30-year-old 1984 Renault 4 presented to him by Italian Fr. Renzo Zocca. Italian automaker Fiat, traditional supplier of papal cars, supplied Pope Francis with the midsize Fiat 500L for his visit to the United States on September 22–27, 2015. Fiat also supplied the Jeep Wrangler he used in Ecuador in July 2015. Popemobile A popemobile (from "pope" and "automobile") is a specially designed motor vehicle used by the Roman Catholic Pope
Pope Francis uses a modest compact car to get around, while Creflo Dollar drives an expensive sports car. [SEP] Popemobile // notice that the man had jumped over the protective barrier in the square and had grabbed onto the white Fiat popemobile as it drove by. At least eight security officers were trailing the vehicle as it moved slowly through the square; they grabbed the man and wrestled him to the ground, and he was interrogated by Vatican police. Pope Francis showed a preference for a simpler lifestyle and simpler cars. As a cardinal he often took public transport. On the night of his election he rode with the other cardinals in a minibus back to their hotel instead of using
Pope Francis uses a modest compact car to get around, while Creflo Dollar drives an expensive sports car. [SEP] Popemobile // fitted with a digital radio. The popemobile most often used by Pope Benedict XVI when travelling abroad was a modified Mercedes-Benz M-Class sport utility vehicle with a special glass-enclosed room with its own oxygen supply built into the back of the vehicle. The pope enters through a rear door and ascends several steps. He sits in a chair made from white leather with gold trim which is then elevated into the glass room by a hydraulic lift, allowing the pope to be more easily seen. In addition to the driver, there is room for one passenger (usually a security agent)
Pope Francis uses a modest compact car to get around, while Creflo Dollar drives an expensive sports car. [SEP] Volkswagen Golf Mk4 // in which to drive around Rome, selling it in 2005 after John Paul's death in anticipation of retiring and returning to Germany. Instead, he became Pope Benedict XVI. Shortly after John Paul's death, his 1999 Golf sold to a German owner for $13,000, who then sold the car for €188,938.88 via eBay to GoldenPalace.com. The Golf, undriven since the sale, was subsequently sold for £14,300 via eBay. Volkswagen Golf Mk4 The Volkswagen Golf Mk4 (or VW "Type 1J") is a compact car, the fourth generation of the Volkswagen Golf and the successor to the Volkswagen Golf Mk3. Launched in October
Pope Francis uses a modest compact car to get around, while Creflo Dollar drives an expensive sports car. [SEP] Popemobile // built in 1979 by OBAM Vehicle Builders, for Pope John Paul II's first visit to Ireland; it was bigger than the later one used in Vatican City. Another popemobile was a modified Mercedes-Benz with a small windowed enclosure in the back where the Pope sits. A converted 230 G Mercedes-Benz G-Class was built for John Paul II's visit to Germany in 1980. A later model was presented to John Paul II in June 2002 based on a Mercedes-Benz M-Class sports-utility vehicle built in the United States. A Fiat Campagnola was used during transit within Vatican City and during masses at
Pope Francis uses a modest compact car to get around, while Creflo Dollar drives an expensive sports car. [SEP] Creflo Dollar // criticized for living a lavish lifestyle. He owns two Rolls-Royces, a private jet, and high-end real estate such as a million-dollar home in Atlanta, a $2.5 million home in Demarest, New Jersey, and a home in Manhattan that he bought for $2.5 million in 2006, which he sold for $3.75 million in 2012. Dollar has refused to disclose his salary. For declining to disclose any financial information to independent audit, Creflo Dollar Ministries received a grade of "F" (failing) for financial transparency by the organization Ministry Watch. Dollar was among six televangelists who were the subject of a 2007 investigation
Pope Francis uses a modest compact car to get around, while Creflo Dollar drives an expensive sports car. [SEP] Official state car // Father Renzo Zocca, a priest in northern Italy. Hugo Chávez, president until his death in 2013, sometimes drove a red IKCO Samand badged Centauro, or in red or green a Tiuna truck accompanied with some ministers or governors or mayors, depending on the occasion when he travelled, usually with a high security personnel around, with a large convoy of armored SUV conformed by Ford Explorer, Chevrolet Suburban, Chevrolet Tahoe, Chevrolet Trailblazer, Chevrolet Express, Ford Expedition, Toyota 4Runner, Toyota Fortuner, Toyota Sequoia, Jeep Grand Cherokee, and an ambulance in case of any emergency, plus is escorted with the Presidential Guard that
Pope Francis uses a modest compact car to get around, while Creflo Dollar drives an expensive sports car. [SEP] Popemobile // of cars based on its presidential limousines used in the United States. The custom-built 1964 Lehmann-Peterson was used by Pope Paul VI in his 1965 New York City visit and was reused in 1970 in Bogotá. Later, Paul VI used a Mercedes-Benz 600 Pullman-Landaulet. However, the term "popemobile" did not come into common usage until the pontificate of Pope John Paul II. The first time that Pope John Paul II travelled to his home country, the white vehicle was based on the Polish mark FSC Star, a small truck from a firm in Starachowice. A Ford D Series truck was
Pope Francis uses a modest compact car to get around, while Creflo Dollar drives an expensive sports car. [SEP] John O'Quinn // Pius XII ($250,000). The centerpiece of the collection is a plain grey 1975 Ford Escort GL, once owned by Polish priest Karol Wojtyla – before he went on to become Pope John Paul II. Bought at the Kruse auction at SEMA, the car was sold by the Pope at auction for charity to Chicago restaurateur Jim Rich in 1995, who paid $102,000 for the car. O'Quinn paid $690,000 for the car October 2005. In late 2006 O'Quinn discovered that several cars were missing from his collection, including a Ferrari 575M and a 1965 Ford Shelby Mustang GT350. O'Quinn tried to
Pope Francis uses a modest compact car to get around, while Creflo Dollar drives an expensive sports car. [SEP] Popemobile // St. Peter's Square. But the popemobile was fitted with bulletproof glass on four sides following the 1981 Pope John Paul II assassination attempt. However, it was sometimes driven with open windows. Leyland Motors supplied a truck-based popemobile in 1982 during the pope's visit to Great Britain which gave audiences a better view of the pontiff. The vehicle was sold at auction in 2006 for £37,000 ($70,500). The pope used a popemobile derived from the SEAT Panda model during his visit to Spain in 1982. That specific car was open-air with a grab handle in front so that the pope could
Laser-Based Dermatological Procedures Could Be Revolutionized with New Techniqu [SEP] Laser surgery // The laser surgery for dermatology often bypass the skin surface. The principle of laser surgery for dermatologic problem is based on SPTL (selective photothermolysis). The laser beam penetrates the skin until it encounters chromophore which absorbs the laser beam. After absorption of the laser beam, heat is generated to induce coagulation, necrosis of the targeted tissue, this results in removal of unwanted tissue by laser surgery. Laser resurfacing is a technique in which covalent bonds of a material are dissolved by a laser, a technique invented by aesthetic plastic surgeon Thomas L. Roberts, III using CO lasers in the 1990s.
Laser-Based Dermatological Procedures Could Be Revolutionized with New Techniqu [SEP] Refractive surgery // a scientist of IBM who was using an excimer laser to make microscopic circuits in microchips for informatics equipment, discovered that the excimer could also be used to cut organic tissues with high accuracy without significant thermal damage. The discovery of an effective biological cutting laser, along with the development of computers to control it, enabled the development of new refractive surgery techniques. In 1983, Stephen Trokel, a scientist at Columbia University, in collaboration with Srinivasan, performed the first Photorefractive Keratectomy (PRK), or keratomileusis in situ (without separation of corneal layer) in Germany. The first patent for this approach, which
Laser-Based Dermatological Procedures Could Be Revolutionized with New Techniqu [SEP] Excimer laser // laser. Subsequent work introduced the excimer laser for use in angioplasty. Xenon chloride (308 nm) excimer lasers can also treat a variety of dermatological conditions including psoriasis, vitiligo, atopic dermatitis, alopecia areata and leukoderma. As light sources, excimer lasers are generally large in size, which is a disadvantage in their medical applications, although their sizes are rapidly decreasing with ongoing development. Research is being conducted to compare differences in safety and effectiveness outcomes between conventional excimer laser refractive surgery and wavefront-guided or wavefront-optimized refractive surgery, as wavefront methods may better correct for higher-order aberrations. Excimer lasers are also widely used
Laser-Based Dermatological Procedures Could Be Revolutionized with New Techniqu [SEP] R. Rox Anderson // Technology at MIT. Anderson's contributions include laser hair removal, photodynamic therapy (use of light-activated localized drugs for cancer and macular degeneration), laser treatment of port-wine stains in children, and basic research into the free electron laser for the selective destruction of lipids (i.e., fats) for possible treatment of acne, cellulite, and atherosclerosis, as well as various uses of photothermolysis using pulsed dye lasers. Anderson and colleagues invented a crude device to noninvasively remove fat by freezing it, in a process called cryolipolysis; and a startup company called Juniper Medical exclusively licensed patent filings on the invention from Massachusetts General Hospital
Laser-Based Dermatological Procedures Could Be Revolutionized with New Techniqu [SEP] Yoram Harth // by the Israeli Venture Capital Association as Best Startup company of 2002 (Medical Devices). Curelight was a finalist in the contest Entrepreneur of the year 2003, (Ernst & Young, Israel). Harth was also a pioneer in the development of other novel devices for dermatological treatment among them the patented invention in the field of targeted multi–wavelength phototherapy for psoriasis and Vitiligo. In 2007 Harth co-founded Endymed Medical and Israeli company specializing in multisource radiofrequency devices for the professional and home use markets. Harth and his co-founder developed the first ever radiofrequency technology that uses 6 phase controlled generators. This technology
Laser-Based Dermatological Procedures Could Be Revolutionized with New Techniqu [SEP] Technological and industrial history of 21st-century Canada // usually unnecessary. Laser treatment results in little bleeding, a lower risk of infection and a quicker healing. Another innovation was the use of computer milled ceramic implants for repairing cavities. The use of a non-toxic chemical such as hydrogen peroxide or carbamide peroxide for tooth bleaching has become popular in the new century. In 2002, two Vancouver doctors, dermatologist Alastair Carruthers and ophthalmologist Jean Carruthers, pioneered the cosmetic use of the well known botulinum toxin. The pair noticed that subcutaneous injections of small amounts of the toxin had the effect of removing age wrinkles from the skin. The Botox procedure,
Laser-Based Dermatological Procedures Could Be Revolutionized with New Techniqu [SEP] Laser-assisted new attachment procedure // or case-controlled studies indicating that 'laser excisional new attachment procedure (or Laser ENAP)' or 'laser curettage' offers any advantageous clinical result not achieved by traditional periodontal therapy. Moreover, published studies suggest that use of lasers for ENAP procedures and/or gingival curettage could render root surfaces and adjacent alveolar bone incompatible with normal cell attachment and healing." A 2015 systematic review from the AAP regeneration workshop acknowledged more recent peer-reviewed studies showing periodontal regeneration, and further suggested that the LANAP protocol's minimally invasive nature may offer advantages in the regeneration of defects where minimal soft tissue change is required. The current
Laser-Based Dermatological Procedures Could Be Revolutionized with New Techniqu [SEP] Laser-assisted new attachment procedure // wavelength) is used by a dentist or periodontist to treat the periodontal pocket. The laser is intended to selectively remove diseased or infected pocket epithelium from the underlying connective tissue. The Nd:YAG laser has been shown to reduce levels of microbial pathogens in periodontal pockets and vaporize the pocket-lining epithelium without causing damage to the underlying connective tissue. The use of lasers in treating periodontal disease has been seen by some dental professionals as controversial. The American Academy of Periodontology stated in 1999 that it was "not aware of any randomized blinded controlled longitudinal clinical trials, cohort or longitudinal studies,
Laser-Based Dermatological Procedures Could Be Revolutionized with New Techniqu [SEP] Biophotonics // therapies. "Dermatology" By observing the numerous and complex interactions between light and biological materials, the field of biophotonics presents a unique set of diagnostic techniques that medical practitioners can utilize. Biophotonic imaging provides the field of dermatology with the only non-invasive technique available for diagnosing skin cancers. Traditional diagnostic procedures for skin cancers involve visual assessment and biopsy, but a new Laser Induced Fluorescence spectroscopy technique allow dermatologists to compare spectrographs of a patient's skin with spectrographs known to correspond with malignant tissue. This provides doctors with earlier diagnosis and treatment options. “Among optical techniques, an emerging imaging technology based
Laser-Based Dermatological Procedures Could Be Revolutionized with New Techniqu [SEP] Laser surgery // Lasers are also used for laser-assisted lipectomy. Various types of laser surgery are used to treat refractive error. LASIK, in which a knife is used to cut a flap in the cornea, and a laser is used to reshape the layers underneath, is used to treat refractive error. IntraLASIK is a variant in which the flap is also cut with a laser. In photorefractive keratectomy (PRK, LASEK), the cornea is reshaped without first cutting a flap. In laser thermal keratoplasty, a ring of concentric burns is made in the cornea, which cause its surface to steepen, allowing better near vision.
New law would let Uruguayans grow marijuana at home, in clubs. [SEP] Cannabis in Uruguay // illegal to move it across international borders. In July 2014 president José Mujica announced that the full implementation of the law would be postponed to 2015, as "there are practical difficulties". Authorities will grow all the cannabis that can be sold legally, and concentrations of THC shall be 15% or lower. In August 2014, an opposition presidential candidate claimed that the new law was unworkable and would never be applied. In December 2014, President Tabaré Vázquez was elected, and stated that though he had concerns about the cannabis law, ultimately it would move forward. At that point, personal and club
New law would let Uruguayans grow marijuana at home, in clubs. [SEP] Cannabis in Uruguay // Cannabis in Uruguay Cannabis is legal in Uruguay, and is one of the most widely used drugs in the nation. President Jose Mujica signed legislation to legalize recreational cannabis in December 2013, making Uruguay the first country in the modern era to legalize cannabis. In August 2014, Uruguay legalized growing up to six plants at home, as well as the formation of growing clubs, a state-controlled marijuana dispensary regime, and the creation of a Cannabis regulatory institute (IRCCA in Spanish). In October 2014 the Government began registering growers' clubs, allowed in turn to grow a maximum of 99 cannabis plants
New law would let Uruguayans grow marijuana at home, in clubs. [SEP] Cannabis in Uruguay // leaders to do the same. Nobel prize winner Mario Vargas Llosa praised the decision as "courageous". The law intends to reduce the profit that drug trafficking creates for organized crime, as well as reducing the drug-related violence and the social problems associated with it. Uruguay has one of the lowest murder rates in the region (though by some estimates, crime was slightly increasing in 2013). Mujica's plan would allow users to cultivate the plant for non-commercial uses and grant licenses to professional farmers for larger scale production. The plan includes a system of; user registry, taxation, and quality control; all
New law would let Uruguayans grow marijuana at home, in clubs. [SEP] Latin American drug legalization // on a government database that will monitor their monthly purchases. Uruguayans will be able to grow six marijuana plants in their homes per year and form clubs of 15 to 45 members that can grow up to 99 plants per year. Latin American drug legalization In the late 2000s and early 2010s, advocacy for drug legalization has increased in Latin America. Spearheading the movement Uruguayan government announced in 2012 plans to legalize state-controlled sales of marijuana in order to fight drug-related crimes. In August 2009, the Argentine supreme court declared in a landmark ruling that it was unconstitutional to prosecute
New law would let Uruguayans grow marijuana at home, in clubs. [SEP] Cannabis in Uruguay // favor and all the other Deputies voting against it. The bill was passed by the Senate's Health Commission on 26 November and was expected to be voted by the full Senate since November 2013. The new law was accepted in the Senate on 10 December 2013 by a 16–13 vote. President Mujica signed the bill into law on 23 December 2013. Julio Calzada, Secretary-General of Uruguay’s National Drug Council, explained in a December 2013 interview that the government will be responsible for regulating the production side of the process: "Companies can get a license to cultivate if they meet all
New law would let Uruguayans grow marijuana at home, in clubs. [SEP] Cannabis in Uruguay // the criteria. However, this won’t be a free market. The government will control the entire production and determine the price, quality, and maximum production volume." People will be allowed to buy up to of cannabis from the Uruguayan government each month. Users have to be 18 or older and be registered in a national database to track their consumption. Cultivators are allowed to grow up to 6 crops at their homes each year and shall not surpass . Registered smoking clubs will be allowed to grow 99 plants annually. Buying cannabis will be prohibited to foreigners and it will be
New law would let Uruguayans grow marijuana at home, in clubs. [SEP] Cannabis in Uruguay // polls in 2012–2013 by Equipos Mori, Cifra and Factum, 58-66% of Uruguayans opposed legalizing the sale of marijuana while 24-29% supported it. Cannabis in Uruguay Cannabis is legal in Uruguay, and is one of the most widely used drugs in the nation. President Jose Mujica signed legislation to legalize recreational cannabis in December 2013, making Uruguay the first country in the modern era to legalize cannabis. In August 2014, Uruguay legalized growing up to six plants at home, as well as the formation of growing clubs, a state-controlled marijuana dispensary regime, and the creation of a Cannabis regulatory institute (IRCCA
New law would let Uruguayans grow marijuana at home, in clubs. [SEP] Drug liberalization // position to browbeat Uruguay or others who may follow." In July 2014, government officials announced that part of the implementation of the law (the sale of cannabis through pharmacies) is postponed to 2015, as "there are practical difficulties". Authorities will grow all the cannabis that can be sold legal. Concentration of THC shall be 15% or lower. In August 2014 an opposition presidential candidate, who was not elected in the November 2014 presidential elections, claimed that the new law was never going to be applied, as it was not workable. By the end of 2016 the government announced that the
New law would let Uruguayans grow marijuana at home, in clubs. [SEP] Latin American drug legalization // December 10, 2013: A government-sponsored bill approved by a 16-13 vote in the Senate provides for regulation of the cultivation, distribution and consumption of marijuana and is aimed at wresting the business from criminals in the small South American nation. Backers outside the court house paraded signs declaring, "Cultivating freedom, Uruguay grows." In April 2014, Uruguay will be the first country to have legal recreational cannabis. Consumers will be able to buy a maximum of 40 grams (1.4 ounces) each month from licensed pharmacies as long as they are Uruguayan residents over the age of 18. Buyers will be registered
New law would let Uruguayans grow marijuana at home, in clubs. [SEP] Cannabis in Uruguay // coordinated through the existing agency that monitors tobacco, alcohol, and pharmaceuticals. He estimated that with 70,000 users, the country will have to produce more than 5,000 pounds each month. He also stated: "Uruguay wants to make a 'contribution to humanity' by legalising marijuana but will backtrack if the 'experiment' goes awry". On 31 July 2013, the Chamber of Deputies passed the bill to legalize and regulate the production and sale of cannabis and sent it to the country's Senate. The bill was approved by 50 affirmative votes (the minimum required) with all Deputies from the ruling Broad Front voting in
Chinese leukemia patient livestreams to pay for treatment. [SEP] Guo Mei // of Jining serious radiation accidents and extremely severe bone marrow and intestinal radiation 2006 Developed an original creativity of microtransplantation for the treatment of leukemia. This technology opens up new opportunities for treating leukemia in world. From 2010 to 2015, she took part in 12 projects of national 863 and provincial projects. As the first applicants, she took five scientific research projects, including the National Ministry of science and Technology Department project, National 11th Five-Year Plan key project of scientific and technological and National 12th Five-Year Plan key project of scientific and technological. Her accomplishments include over 100 published research
Chinese leukemia patient livestreams to pay for treatment. [SEP] Microtransplantation // GVHD was observed in any of the patients. The positive results have also been verified by healthcare centers in Italy, America, Spain, etc. Led by Dr. Huisheng Ai and his medical team at MST International Clinic for Leukemia in the 307th Hospital of Chinese People’s Liberation Army located in Beijing, multicenter collaborative study on Microtransplantation has started since 2013 in 9 authoritative blood institutes from China, Duke University and Keck School of Medicine-University of Southern California in United States, University of Sydney in Australia and University of Montreal in Canada. To overcome the intolerable severe reactions of high-dose chemotherapy and
Chinese leukemia patient livestreams to pay for treatment. [SEP] HIV/AIDS in China // for leaking an internal government report on the Henan AIDS crisis. In early December 2006, it was reported that a group of 19 people who contracted HIV from tainted blood transfusions at a hospital in the northeastern province of Heilongjiang were awarded 20 million yuan (US$2.5 million) in compensation. The landmark case involves the largest single group stricken by HIV in China. Eighteen of the victims will receive a one-off payment of $25,500 from the hospital and additional monthly payments of $380. Payment will go to the family of the one victim who has already died from AIDS. The process
Chinese leukemia patient livestreams to pay for treatment. [SEP] Chen Saijuan // has made important discoveries in the pathogenesis of leukemia and developed therapies to treat acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) and other types of leukemia. Chen was born in May 1951 in Yinzhou District, Ningbo, Zhejiang, China. During the early Cultural Revolution, she was forced to quit school and work in a textile factory at age 17. She was able to enter Shanghai Second Medical College a few years later, in 1972, and worked at Ruijin Hospital after graduating in 1975. When graduate research was resumed after the Cultural Revolution, Chen was accepted in 1978 by the renowned hematologist Wang Zhenyi as
Chinese leukemia patient livestreams to pay for treatment. [SEP] Zhang Tingdong // Taiyn at the Heilongjiang medical reports. They used "cancer injection" (also called "1st cancer spirit") in the treatment of 6 cases of patients with chronic myeloid leukemia. They used arsenic trioxide as the main ingredient, with some trace "pink powder (mercury chloride)". After the treatment, 6 patients with symptoms have improved, including a chronic leukemia acute patients as well. They also mentioned that arsenic trioxide is effective in treating acute leukemia. Zhang Tingdong Zhang Tingdong (; born in November 8, 1932) is a Chinese medical scientist, pharmaceutical chemist, and educator in Harbin Medical University, 1st affiliated Hospital, and is best
Chinese leukemia patient livestreams to pay for treatment. [SEP] Ashley Kirilow // at benefit concerts, organized on her behalf. Kirilow visited children in hospital, receiving cancer treatment. Commentators speculated about the effect her Facebook fraud would have on other charities' online donations. On October 13, 2010, Linda Nguyen reported on the efforts to raise funds for experimental treatment for Alexis Wronzberg, a young Toronto area woman who suffers from a rare form of Leukemia. Wronzberg needed $300,000 for haplo-identical stem-cell therapy. Wronzberg's father described concerns that Kirilow's fraud would discourage donations to their fund. He said their fears did not materialize. Nguyen also quoted a spokeswoman for the Canadian Cancer Society, who
Chinese leukemia patient livestreams to pay for treatment. [SEP] High-dose chemotherapy and bone marrow transplant // court case, "Fox v. Health Net". changed the existing policy of HMOs toward paying for the treatment. A public-school teacher named Nelene Hiepler Fox (January 9, 1953 – April 22, 1993) was diagnosed with breast cancer in 1991. She requested her HMO to pay for High-Dose Chemotherapy and Bone Marrow Transplant (HDC/BMT) to treat her cancer. Her health maintenance organization, Health Net, declined her request, stating this therapy was an unproven, experimental therapy. Fox's brother, Mark Hiepler, took her HMO, Health Net, to court to force them to pay for HDC/BMT, which they had refused to do. Despite raising $220,000
Chinese leukemia patient livestreams to pay for treatment. [SEP] Janet Liang // Medical Center. That year, she founded Helping Janet, a grassroots initiative aimed at mobilizing ethnic minority communities to register their marrow in 2009, with the help of her friends. Helping Janet became a global movement, reaching out to Asians across the United States and the Chinese-speaking regions of China, Taiwan, Hong Kong and Singapore, by utilizing social media. The organization has since registered over 20,000 new donors and found 18 matches for blood cancer patients. On January 21, 2012, while at the hospital, Liang uploaded a video plea on YouTube asking Americans, particularly those of Chinese descent, to register for
Chinese leukemia patient livestreams to pay for treatment. [SEP] Another Promise // Sang-gu and his family, along with their attorney and other families of leukemia patients, are soon shaken up as the company uses different methods of appeasement and pressure to keep the families from uniting, among them offering money to keep the issue from becoming public. Jinsung workers also spy on the families of the plaintiffs, stalk them and threaten them, all for the sake of their company, which they genuinely believe to be in the right. People become reluctant to be a witness for trial, either because of their loyalty to the company or for the well being of their
Chinese leukemia patient livestreams to pay for treatment. [SEP] Tzu Chi // to waive tuition for selected courses, in addition to providing full scholarships for qualified Taiwan aborigine students. Tzu Chi created a bone marrow registry, the Tzu Chi Bone Marrow Bank, in 1993 after a young follower of Cheng Yen was diagnosed with Leukemia. Cheng Yen referred to the concept of bone marrow donation as a way to "save a life without harming yourself." This effort to register bone marrow donors from an organization with such massive membership like Tzu Chi caused Taiwan to change its laws regarding organ donations. This registry became a division of the new Tzu Chi Stem
Recall: Nearly 57 tons of ground beef for possible E coli. [SEP] Ground beef // this product became a component in ground beef used by McDonald's, Burger King and many other fast-food chains as well as grocery chains in the U.S. In government and industry records in testing for the school lunch program, pathogens such as "E. coli" and salmonella were found dozens of times in meat from BPI, which raises questions about safety of the meat product and the effectiveness of the antimicrobial method used in meat recovery system of the company. Between 2005 and 2009, "E. coli" was found three times and salmonella 48 times. BPI had a rate of 36 positives for
Recall: Nearly 57 tons of ground beef for possible E coli. [SEP] Escherichia coli O157:H7 // be undercooked ground beef but also leafy vegetables. Fields often get contaminated with the bacterium through irrigation processes or contaminated water naturally entering the soil. It is highly virulent, with a low infectious dose: an inoculation of fewer than 10 to 100 CFU of "E. coli" O157:H7 is sufficient to cause infection, compared to over one-million CFU for other pathogenic "E. coli" strains. A stool culture can detect the bacterium, although it is not a routine test and so must be specifically requested. The sample is cultured on sorbitol-MacConkey (SMAC) agar, or the variant cefixime potassium tellurite sorbitol-MacConkey agar (CT-SMAC).
Recall: Nearly 57 tons of ground beef for possible E coli. [SEP] Topps Meat Company // of frozen hamburgers." In 2007 the company ceased operations following (E. coli) contamination of products and the ensuing recall. According to the "New York Times": 21.7 million pounds of frozen ground beef products produced between September 25, 2006, and September 25, 2007, by the Topps Meat Company were recalled in September 2007 due to contamination concerns. At the time, this was the second-largest beef recall in U.S. history, after Hudson Foods Company's recall of 25 million pounds of ground beef in 1997. Product samples subsequently tested positive for contamination with E. coli. The first reported case of illness linked to
Recall: Nearly 57 tons of ground beef for possible E coli. [SEP] Cargill // had become sick from ground beef being recalled by Cargill Beef. The 10 became sick between June 6 and June 26. Three were hospitalized, and all recovered, according to health officials. Hannaford Supermarkets alerted consumers that Cargill Beef was voluntarily recalling 29,339 pounds of ground beef that might contain salmonella. The 85%-lean ground beef was produced at Cargill's plant in Wyalusing, Pennsylvania, on May 25, 2012, and repackaged for sale to consumers by customers of the Kansas-based company. In 2003, Cargill completed a port for processing soya in Santarém in the Amazon region of Brazil, dramatically increasing soya production in
Recall: Nearly 57 tons of ground beef for possible E coli. [SEP] Beef Products // had complained that the product tasted and smelled like ammonia, after which the company devised a plan to make a less alkaline version. The USDA determined that at least some of BPI's product was no longer receiving "the full lethality treatment." NYT reported that BPI's products had tested positive for E. coli three times and salmonella 48 times since 2005. This prompted the USDA to revoke the exemption and conduct a review of the company's practices. In July 2011, after widespread coverage of an unrelated linked to sprouts, Beef Products Inc. began voluntarily testing its beef products for six additional
Recall: Nearly 57 tons of ground beef for possible E coli. [SEP] 1993 Jack in the Box E. coli outbreak // federal standard of . Had Jack in the Box followed the state cooking standard, the outbreak would have been prevented, according to court documents and experts from the Washington State Health Department. Subsequent investigation by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) identified five slaughterhouses in the United States and one in Canada as "the likely sources of [...] the contaminated lots of meat." In February 1998, Foodmaker agreed to accept $58.5 million from Vons and eight other beef suppliers to settle the lawsuit started in 1993. A total of 171 people required hospitalization. The majority of the victims
Recall: Nearly 57 tons of ground beef for possible E coli. [SEP] Topps Meat Company // from the largest U.S. manufacturer of frozen hamburgers to a company that cannot overcome the economic reality of a recall this large," Anthony D'Urso, chief operating officer, said in a statement. USDA's first positive test results for E. coli contamination came back September 7, 2007, but they waited for confirming tests before ordering a recall 18 days later. Criticism of that 18-day delay in seeking the recall of millions of pounds of tainted Topps Meat ground beef caused the USDA to promise to speed up warnings about contaminated meat in the future. As of October 7, 2007, 29 people in
Recall: Nearly 57 tons of ground beef for possible E coli. [SEP] 2006 North American E. coli O157:H7 outbreaks // the menu. By mid-December 2006, both green onions and McLane Company had been eliminated as possible sources of the Taco Bell contamination. Taco Bell's tainted lettuce was later traced, via packaging, to farms in the Central Valley of California, although no specific sources have been made public. Later in December 2006, Iowa and Minnesota health officials investigated an "E. coli" outbreak that was traced to foods served at Taco John's restaurants in Cedar Falls, Iowa and Albert Lea and Austin, Minnesota. As of December 13, 2006, the Iowa Department of Health had confirmed that at least 50 Iowans had become
Recall: Nearly 57 tons of ground beef for possible E coli. [SEP] Ground beef // seasoned, it is popular as a main course and as a dressing in Belgium, where it is known as filet américain ("American fillet"). Food safety of ground meat issues occur because of the possibility of bacterial contamination. Undercooked hamburgers contaminated with were responsible for four deaths and the illness of hundreds of people in the U.S. in 1993. Ground beef must be cooked to 72 °C (160 °F) to ensure all bacterial contamination—whether it be endogenous to the product or contaminated after purchasing by the consumer—is killed. The color of cooked meat does not always indicate the beef has reached
Recall: Nearly 57 tons of ground beef for possible E coli. [SEP] Pink slime // the past year, 6% was LFTB. An analysis of California Department of Education data indicated that "anywhere from none to nearly 3 million pounds of beef from the USDA that was served in California schools last year could have contained lean finely textured beef". According to the USDA, the cost differential between ground beef with and without the additive has been estimated at approximately 3%. On September 13, 2012, BPI announced that it filed a $1.2 billion lawsuit, "Beef Products, Inc. v. American Broadcasting Companies, Inc.," against ABC News; three reporters (Diane Sawyer, Jim Avila and David Kerley) and others,
Chemistry Nobel for using evolution to create new proteins. [SEP] Frances Arnold // 2016. Arnold is credited with pioneering the use of directed evolution to create enzymes (biochemical molecules—often proteins—that catalyze, or speed up, chemical reactions) with improved and/or novel functions. The directed evolution strategy involves iterative rounds of randomly mutating proteins' genes and screening for proteins with improved functions and it has been used to create useful biological systems, including enzymes, metabolic pathways, genetic regulatory circuits, and organisms. In nature, evolution by natural selection can lead to proteins (including enzymes) well-suited to carry out biological tasks, but natural selection can only act on existing sequence variations (mutations) and typically occurs over long
Chemistry Nobel for using evolution to create new proteins. [SEP] History of science and technology in Japan // hydrocarbons." He later received the 1981 Nobel Prize in Chemistry for his investigations into the mechanisms of chemical reactions, with his prize-winning work focused on the role of frontier orbitals in chemical reactions, specifically that molecules share loosely bonded electrons which occupy the frontier orbitals, that is the Highest Occupied Molecular Orbital (HOMO) and the Lowest Unoccupied Molecular Orbital (LUMO). Ryōji Noyori was awarded the 2001 Nobel Prize in Chemistry for his "work on chirally catalyzed hydrogenation reactions" in 1968. In the 1960s and 1970s, green fluorescent proteins (GFP), along with the separate luminescent protein aequorin (an enzyme that catalyzes
Chemistry Nobel for using evolution to create new proteins. [SEP] Maxygen // of Directed Evolution to protein engineering, and wanting to continue the legacy, a private investor acquired the Maxygen trademark and was granted full rights to the name on January 9th 2018. The importance of Directed Evolution was further exemplified when the Nobel Prize in Chemistry was awarded in 2018 for the development of this technique for protein engineering. Maxygen is now a privately owned company operating in Sunnyvale, CA providing rapid protein engineering applying Molecular Breeding to accomplish Directed Evolution. Additionally, Maxygen leverages advanced synthetic biology techniques to further accelerate the optimization of proteins and expressing them. One such capability
Chemistry Nobel for using evolution to create new proteins. [SEP] Francis Crick // used by existing organisms. At that time, everyone thought of proteins as the only kind of enzymes, and ribozymes had not yet been found. Many molecular biologists were puzzled by the problem of the origin of a protein replicating system that is as complex as that which exists in organisms currently inhabiting Earth. In the early 1970s, Crick and Orgel further speculated about the possibility that the production of living systems from molecules may have been a very rare event in the universe, but once it had developed it could be spread by intelligent life forms using space travel technology,
Chemistry Nobel for using evolution to create new proteins. [SEP] Frederic M. Richards // metal-binding sites into proteins, and used them to build a new metal site into thioredoxin. Richards is named as a depositor on 27 crystal structure entries in the Protein Data Bank, including the now-obsoleted ribonuclease S (), hen egg lysozyme (), SH3 domains (), the ion-channel-forming alamethicin () (), and mutants of ribonuclease S (e.g., ;), of Staphylococcal nuclease (e.g., ;), and of lambda repressor in complex with DNA (). The Department of Molecular Biophysics and Biochemistry ("MB&B") that Richards founded and chaired at Yale, which amalgamated the medical school Biochemistry and the university Molecular Biophysics departments, was considered to
Chemistry Nobel for using evolution to create new proteins. [SEP] Andreas Plückthun // new directed evolution technologies. He won a Young Investigator's Award of the German Chemical Industry Trust (Fonds der chemischen Industrie). In 2000, he received the Karl-Heinz-Beckurts Award (Munich, Germany). In 2002 he was given the J. P. Morgan Chase Health Award (San Jose, CA, USA), the Wilhelm-Exner Medal (Vienna, Austria) and The Jury's Grand Prix (European Grand Prix for Innovation, Monaco). Together with the other founders of Molecular Partners AG, he received the Swiss Technology Award and the De Vigier Award in 2005. In 2011 he was awarded a Senior Investigator Grant of the European Research Council. He is the
Chemistry Nobel for using evolution to create new proteins. [SEP] DNA // the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine. Nobel Prizes are awarded only to living recipients. A debate continues about who should receive credit for the discovery. In an influential presentation in 1957, Crick laid out the central dogma of molecular biology, which foretold the relationship between DNA, RNA, and proteins, and articulated the "adaptor hypothesis". Final confirmation of the replication mechanism that was implied by the double-helical structure followed in 1958 through the Meselson–Stahl experiment. Further work by Crick and coworkers showed that the genetic code was based on non-overlapping triplets of bases, called codons, allowing Har Gobind Khorana, Robert
Chemistry Nobel for using evolution to create new proteins. [SEP] History of molecular evolution // 1960s Curtis Williams and Morris Goodman used immunological comparisons to study primate phylogeny. Others, such as Linus Pauling and his students, applied newly developed combinations of electrophoresis and paper chromatography to proteins subject to partial digestion by digestive enzymes to create unique two-dimensional patterns, allowing fine-grained comparisons of homologous proteins. Beginning in the 1950s, a few naturalists also experimented with molecular approaches—notably Ernst Mayr and Charles Sibley. While Mayr quickly soured on paper chromatography, Sibley successfully applied electrophoresis to egg-white proteins to sort out problems in bird taxonomy, soon supplemented that with DNA hybridization techniques—the beginning of a long career
Chemistry Nobel for using evolution to create new proteins. [SEP] Frances Arnold // win the Millennium Technology Prize, which she won for pioneering directed evolution. In 2017, Arnold was awarded the Raymond and Beverly Sackler Prize in Convergence Research by the National Academy of Sciences, which recognizes extraordinary contributions to convergence research. In 2018 she was awarded the Nobel Prize in Chemistry for her work in directed evolution, making her the fifth woman to receive the award in its 117 years of existence, and the first American woman. She received a one-half share of the award, with the other half jointly awarded to George Smith and Gregory Winter "for the phage display of
Chemistry Nobel for using evolution to create new proteins. [SEP] Dudley R. Herschbach // and Pierre LeBreton began to construct a "supermachine" for studying collisions such as Cl + Br and hydrogen and halogen reactions. His most acclaimed work, for which he won the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1986 with Yuan T. Lee and John C. Polanyi, was his collaboration with Yuan T. Lee on crossed molecular beam experiments. Crossing collimated beams of gas-phase reactants allows partitioning of energy among translational, rotational, and vibrational modes of the product molecules—a vital aspect of understanding reaction dynamics. For their contributions to reaction dynamics, Herschbach and Lee are considered to have helped create a new field
UN sees bird flu changes but calls risk of people spread low. [SEP] Influenza A virus subtype H7N9 // up again when the weather turns cooler in China. Limited person-to-person spread of bird flu is thought to have occurred rarely in the past, most notably with avian influenza A (H5N1). According to the US CDC, based on previous experience, some limited human-to-human spread of this H7N9 virus would not be surprising if the virus reemerges in the fall. Furthermore, according to the WHO, since migratory birds were first implicated in H7N9 transmission, the possibility that the virus may spread into other regions or countries with colder weather cannot be excluded, given the widespread bird migratory patterns. In a study
UN sees bird flu changes but calls risk of people spread low. [SEP] Singaporean measures against avian influenza // the spread of the disease. In October 2005, strain of the bird flu virus was detected in Turkey and Romania indicating that the avian flu was spreading from Asia to Europe. Most of the human deaths so far have been linked to contact with sick birds. But the World Health Organization has said that the virus could mutate into a form that is more easily transmitted from human to human and possibly triggering a pandemic reminiscent of the 1918 flu epidemic that killed tens of millions worldwide. In Thailand, a probable case of human-to-human transmission of H5N1 virus was reported
UN sees bird flu changes but calls risk of people spread low. [SEP] Influenza A virus subtype H7N7 // the population at risk for avian influenza was not limited to those with direct contact to infected poultry, and that person to person transmission may have occurred on a large scale. Final analysis of Dutch avian influenza outbreaks reveals much higher levels of transmission to humans than previously thought. In August 2006, low pathogenic (LP) H7N7 was found during routine testing at a poultry farm in Voorthuizen in the central Netherlands. As a precautionary measure, 25,000 chickens were culled from Voorthuizen and surrounding farms. In June 2008, high pathogenic (HP) H7N7 was confirmed on a 25,000-bird laying unit at Shenington,
UN sees bird flu changes but calls risk of people spread low. [SEP] Fatal Contact: Bird Flu in America // Fatal Contact: Bird Flu in America Fatal Contact: Bird Flu in America is an ABC two-hour TV movie which first aired May 9, 2006 in which an American businessman visiting China is infected and carries the deadly mutated bird flu virus back via jetliner to the USA, soon it spreads throughout the country then the rest of the world. Before the movie ends, riots erupt, armed mobs try to hijack vaccines and authorities predict that up to 350 million people will die worldwide." A mutated bird flu virus spreads across the world. As panic spreads, the governor of Virginia quarantines
UN sees bird flu changes but calls risk of people spread low. [SEP] Fatal Contact: Bird Flu in America // neighborhoods where cases have cropped up, and federal officials confess they have no vaccine and scant supplies of antiviral drugs. Major socioeconomic disruption sets in, with shortages of food and medical supplies, power outages, and riots in the streets of New York. A second civil war even erupts in the United States. Eventually, the pandemic begins to subside. But in the final scene, the discovery that an entire Angolan village was wiped out by a new mutation of the virus and a second wave of cases will begin causes further panic. The editorial staff at CIDRAP (Center for Infectious Disease
UN sees bird flu changes but calls risk of people spread low. [SEP] Influenza A virus subtype H7N9 // reported that the virus had been found only in chickens, ducks, and pigeons at live poultry markets and that no migratory birds had tested positive for the virus, easing concerns about that route of transmission. However, later investigation demonstrated that H7N9 may infect wild songbirds and caged parakeets, which then shed the virus into their environment. This finding implies that these birds may potentially serve as intermediate hosts with the ability to facilitate transmission and dissemination of H7N9. At an April 26 news conference, the WHO assistant director-general for health stated, "This is an unusually dangerous virus for humans. We
UN sees bird flu changes but calls risk of people spread low. [SEP] Avian influenza // such as those that only looked at placed-based interventions, would fail without looking for a multifaceted solutions. Press accounts of avian flu in Indonesia were seen by poultry farmers as conflating suspected cases while the public did see the accounts as informative, though many became de-sensitized to the idea of impending danger or only temporarily changed their poultry-related behavior. Rumors also circulated in Java in 2006. These tended to focus on bird flu being linked to big businesses in order to drive small farmers out of the market by exaggerating the danger of avian influenza, avian flu being introduced by
UN sees bird flu changes but calls risk of people spread low. [SEP] Pandemic H1N1/09 virus // Chile discovered that the human H1N1/09 virus had jumped, unmutated, to birds, "opening a new chapter in the global epidemic." Top flu and animal-health experts with the WHO and the CDC were monitoring the situation closely. They said the infected turkeys have suffered only mild effects, easing concern about a potentially dangerous development. Chile's turkey meat remains safe to eat, they said, and so far there have been no signs of a potentially dangerous mutation. Virus experts are concerned that a more dangerous and easily transmitted strain could emerge if H1N1/09 combines again with avian flu, which at present is
UN sees bird flu changes but calls risk of people spread low. [SEP] 2008 California Proposition 2 // outbreak of bird flu in China was a result of that country's conversion from small, backyard poultry farms towards larger, crowded industrialized farms over the last twenty years. He strongly recommends that we "dramatically" change modern farming practices. According to Dr. Shortridge, domesticated poultry on industrial farms are the source of the bird flu virus, not outdoor migratory birds. In July 2008 the University of California, Davis conducted a study through their University of California Agricultural Issues Center (AIC). The study concluded that "the best evidence from a variety of sources suggests that (non-organic) non-cage systems incur costs of production
UN sees bird flu changes but calls risk of people spread low. [SEP] Influenza // to begin implementing the plan. Internationally, on 18 January 2006, donor nations pledged US$2 billion to combat bird flu at the two-day International Pledging Conference on Avian and Human Influenza held in China. In an assessment of the 2009 H1N1 pandemic on selected countries in the Southern Hemisphere, data suggest that all countries experienced some time-limited and/or geographically isolated socio/economic effects and a temporary decrease in tourism most likely due to fear of 2009 H1N1 disease. It is still too early to determine whether the H1N1 pandemic has caused any long-term economic impacts. Research on influenza includes studies on molecular
Discovery offers prospect of shorter treatment and cure for chronic myelogenous leukemia [SEP] Chronic myelogenous leukemia // of leukemogenic effects and hence the relative lack of potential for secondary hematologic malignancies to result from treatment. IRIS, an international study that compared interferon/cytarabine combination and the first of these new drugs imatinib, with long-term follow up, demonstrated the clear superiority of tyrosine-kinase-targeted inhibition over existing treatments. The first of this new class of drugs was imatinib mesylate (marketed as Gleevec or Glivec), approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in 2001. Imatinib was found to inhibit the progression of CML in the majority of patients (65–75%) sufficiently to achieve regrowth of their normal bone marrow stem
Discovery offers prospect of shorter treatment and cure for chronic myelogenous leukemia [SEP] Chronic myelogenous leukemia // present in a patient with CML: The only curative treatment for CML is a bone marrow transplant or an allogeneic stem cell transplant. Other than this there are four major mainstays of treatment in CML: treatment with tyrosine kinase inhibitors, myelosuppressive or leukopheresis therapy (to counteract the leukocytosis during early treatment), splenectomy and interferon alfa-2b treatment. Due to the high median age of patients with CML it is relatively rare for CML to be seen in pregnant women, despite this, however, chronic myelogenous leukemia can be treated with relative safety at any time during pregnancy with Interferon-alpha hormones. In the
Discovery offers prospect of shorter treatment and cure for chronic myelogenous leukemia [SEP] Myeloid sarcoma // chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML), polycythemia vera, essential thrombocytosis, or myelofibrosis). The detection of a chloroma is considered "de facto" evidence these premalignant conditions have transformed into an acute leukemia requiring appropriate treatment. For example, presence of a chloroma is sufficient to indicate chronic myelogenous leukemia has entered its 'blast crisis' phase. At least one case of "FIP1L1-PDGFRA" fusion gene-induced eosinophilic leukemia presenting with myeloid sarcoma and eosinophilia has been reported. This form of myeloid sarcoma is distinguished by its highly successful treatment with imatinib (the recommended treatment for "FIP1L1-PDGRGA" fusion gene-induced eosinophilic leukemia) rather than more aggressive and toxic therapy.
Discovery offers prospect of shorter treatment and cure for chronic myelogenous leukemia [SEP] Chronic myelogenous leukemia // Chronic myelogenous leukemia Chronic myeloid leukemia (CML), also known as chronic myelogenous leukemia, is a cancer of the white blood cells. It is a form of leukemia characterized by the increased and unregulated growth of myeloid cells in the bone marrow and the accumulation of these cells in the blood. CML is a clonal bone marrow stem cell disorder in which a proliferation of mature granulocytes (neutrophils, eosinophils and basophils) and their precursors is found. It is a type of myeloproliferative neoplasm associated with a characteristic chromosomal translocation called the Philadelphia chromosome. CML is largely treated with targeted drugs called
Discovery offers prospect of shorter treatment and cure for chronic myelogenous leukemia [SEP] Chronic myelogenous leukemia // 4, 2012 and 27 March 2013 respectively for the treatment of adult patients with Philadelphia chromosome-positive (Ph+) chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) with resistance, or intolerance to prior therapy. While capable of producing significantly improved responses compared with the action of imatinib, neither dasatinib nor nilotinib could overcome drug resistance caused by one particular mutation found to occur in the structure of BCR-ABL1 known as the T315I mutation (i.e. where the 315th amino acid is mutated from a threonine residue to an isoleucine residue). Two approaches were developed to the treatment of CML as a result: In 2007, Chemgenex released results
Discovery offers prospect of shorter treatment and cure for chronic myelogenous leukemia [SEP] Leukemia // of patients will be able to keep the disease in check for at least five years, so that CML becomes a chronic, manageable condition. In a more advanced, uncontrolled state, when the patient cannot tolerate imatinib, or if the patient wishes to attempt a permanent cure, then an allogeneic bone marrow transplantation may be performed. This procedure involves high-dose chemotherapy and radiation followed by infusion of bone marrow from a compatible donor. Approximately 30% of patients die from this procedure. Decision to treat Patients with hairy cell leukemia who are symptom-free typically do not receive immediate treatment. Treatment is generally
Discovery offers prospect of shorter treatment and cure for chronic myelogenous leukemia [SEP] Chronic myelogenous leukemia // cell population (a cytogenetic response) with stable proportions of maturing white blood cells. Because some leukemic cells (as evaluated by RT-PCR) persist in nearly all patients, the treatment has to be continued indefinitely. Since the advent of imatinib, CML has become the first cancer in which a standard medical treatment may give to the patient a normal life expectancy. To overcome imatinib resistance and to increase responsiveness to TK inhibitors, four novel agents were later developed. The first, dasatinib, blocks several further oncogenic proteins, in addition to more potent inhibition of the BCR-ABL protein, and was initially approved in 2007
Discovery offers prospect of shorter treatment and cure for chronic myelogenous leukemia [SEP] Atypical chronic myeloid leukemia // molecular pathogenesis of this disease has remained elusive and the outcome dismal (median survival 37 months) with no improvement over the last 20 years. This sharply contrasts with the outcome for CML, for which the prognosis was dramatically improved by the development of imatinib as a specific inhibitor of the BCR-ABL protein and in particular for CML. In 2012 "SETBP1" was identified as a novel oncogene in aCML; specific somatic mutations of this gene were discovered in people with aCML and related diseases. These mutations, which are identical to the ones present in SGS as germline mutations, impair the degradation
Discovery offers prospect of shorter treatment and cure for chronic myelogenous leukemia [SEP] Chronic myelogenous leukemia // inhibitors, survival rates have improved dramatically. A 2006 followup of 553 patients using imatinib (Gleevec) found an overall survival rate of 89% after five years. A 2011 followup of 832 patients using imatinib who achieved a stable cytogenetic response found an overall survival rate of 95.2% after 8 years, which is similar to the rate in the general population. Fewer than 1% of patients died because of leukemia progression. CML accounts for 8% of all leukaemias in the UK, and around 680 people were diagnosed with the disease in 2011. The American Cancer Society estimates that in 2014, about 5,980
Discovery offers prospect of shorter treatment and cure for chronic myelogenous leukemia [SEP] Chronic myelogenous leukemia // tyrosine-kinase inhibitors (TKIs) which have led to dramatically improved long-term survival rates since 2001. These drugs have revolutionized treatment of this disease and allow most patients to have a good quality of life when compared to the former chemotherapy drugs. In Western countries, CML accounts for 15–25% of all adult leukemias and 14% of leukemias overall (including the pediatric population, where CML is less common). The way CML presents depends on the stage of the disease at diagnosis as it has been known to skip stages in some cases. Most patients (~90%) are diagnosed during the chronic stage which is
Michigan Capitol hosts collection of unwanted medications. [SEP] Drug policy of Michigan // Heroin as a Schedule 1 drug. Possession of heroin is a felony. Possessing any mixture containing heroin is punished according to how many grams the mixture contains. Punishments are as follows: In 2009, former governor Jennifer Granholm issued a notice that specifically targeted drug use in the workplace, stating that drug use can "significantly impact the workplace and provide a serious threat to public health, safety, and welfare". The notice also made mention of educational programs and attempts made by the state of Michigan to offset the prevalence of drug use in general. This notice was not actual legislation, but
Michigan Capitol hosts collection of unwanted medications. [SEP] Drug policy of Michigan // Drug policy of Michigan The U.S. state of Michigan has various policies restricting the production, sale, and use of different controlled substances. Some of the policies are unique to the state while others are similar to federal law. Laws pertaining to controlled substances can be found almost exclusively in various sections of public health code, specifically Act 368 of 1978. Although federal law prohibits the production, sale, and use of cannabis products, in 2008 the state of Michigan passed the Michigan Medical Marihuana Act, which allows qualified individuals access to cannabis for medicinal purposes. Qualified patients as well as caregivers
Michigan Capitol hosts collection of unwanted medications. [SEP] Drug policy of Michigan // of alcohol; the punishments associated with this offense can be found under the "alcohol" section of this page. Drug policy of Michigan The U.S. state of Michigan has various policies restricting the production, sale, and use of different controlled substances. Some of the policies are unique to the state while others are similar to federal law. Laws pertaining to controlled substances can be found almost exclusively in various sections of public health code, specifically Act 368 of 1978. Although federal law prohibits the production, sale, and use of cannabis products, in 2008 the state of Michigan passed the Michigan Medical
Michigan Capitol hosts collection of unwanted medications. [SEP] Michigan State Capitol // Michigan State Capitol The Michigan State Capitol is the building that houses the legislative branch of the government of the U.S. state of Michigan. It is in the portion of the state capital of Lansing which lies in Ingham County. The present structure, at the intersection of Capitol and Michigan Avenues, is a National Historic Landmark that houses the chambers and offices of the Michigan Legislature as well as the ceremonial offices of the Governor of Michigan and Lieutenant Governor. Historically, this is the third building to house the Michigan government. The first state capitol was in Detroit, the original
Michigan Capitol hosts collection of unwanted medications. [SEP] Capitol Loop // Capitol Loop The Capitol Loop is a state trunkline highway running through Lansing, Michigan, in the United States that was commissioned on October 13, 1989. It forms a loop route off Interstate 496 (I-496) through downtown near the Michigan State Capitol complex, home of the state legislature and several state departments. The Michigan Department of Transportation (MDOT) has labeled it as Capitol Loop I-496 or CL I-496 on some maps, similar to the Business Loop Interstate nomenclature. However, unlike other business loops in Michigan, it has unique reassurance markers—the signs that serve as regular reminders of the name and number
Michigan Capitol hosts collection of unwanted medications. [SEP] Michigan State Capitol // dedicated in 1873. The American Forestry Association has certified this catalpa is the largest living tree of its kind in the United States. The most recently dedicated tree is a blue spruce called "the Freedom Tree," planted in 1973 as a memorial to the Vietnam War's missing-in-action and prisoners of war. Michigan State Capitol The Michigan State Capitol is the building that houses the legislative branch of the government of the U.S. state of Michigan. It is in the portion of the state capital of Lansing which lies in Ingham County. The present structure, at the intersection of Capitol and
Michigan Capitol hosts collection of unwanted medications. [SEP] Michigan State Capitol // At the lawn's southeast corner is the Grand Army of the Republic Memorial, a 1924-bronze plaque attached to a boulder as a memorial to American Civil War veterans who fought for the Union. The grounds have several notable trees. An Eastern White Pine, the state tree of Michigan, is located at the east front of the building. The Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Tree was planted in memory of the slain leader in 1984 to the north of the Austin Blair Monument. The oldest tree on the grounds is a catalpa on the southeast lawn present when the Capitol was
Michigan Capitol hosts collection of unwanted medications. [SEP] Michigan State Capitol // are taped by Michigan Government Television, a public service body transmitted to local cable television systems' government-access television channels. Similar to C-SPAN, MGTV has made live coverage of the legislative proceedings available since July 15, 1996. Although having the same floor plan, the House and Senate chambers are decorated very differently, with the former in terra cotta and teal colors and the latter in blue and gold. An oval cartouche in the carpet at the entrance to the House chamber features the state flower, the apple blossom. Presiding over the house is the speaker, whose chair is behind a desk
Michigan Capitol hosts collection of unwanted medications. [SEP] Michigan State Capitol // were among the most extensively restored during the 1989–1992 restoration. The office features a suite of original furnishings manufactured in 1876 by the Feige Brothers Company of Saginaw. The former chambers of the Michigan Supreme Court are in the south wing of the building. The court vacated its chambers in 1970 for larger quarters, eventually moving to its current location in the Michigan Hall of Justice. The room is now used by the Senate Appropriations Committee and named for longtime chairman Harry Gast. Public access to Michigan's legislative bodies is through the third floor. The capitol building holds the chambers
Michigan Capitol hosts collection of unwanted medications. [SEP] Michigan Legislature // in the State Capitol is located in the north wing of the State Capitol building. As of 2015, Republicans hold a majority of seats in the House of Representatives with 63, and Democrats hold 47 seats. The House of Representatives selects its own Speaker of the House and other officers and adopts its rules of procedure at the start of a new legislative session. On November 3, 1992, almost 59 percent of Michigan voters backed Proposal B, the Michigan Term Limits Amendment, which amended the State Constitution, to enact term limits on federal and state officials. In 1995, the U.S.
A law in Japan makes it illegal for citizens of that country to be fat. [SEP] Fat tax // law involved conducting an annual waist measurement check of people aged between 40 and 75, which was administered by employers and local government. The role of employers and local government was to ensure there was a minimum of 65% participation, with a goal to decrease Japan's obesity rates by 25% by 2015 and failure to meet these goals results in a fine. In October 2011, Denmark introduced a fat tax on butter, milk, cheese, pizza, meat, oil and processed food if the item contains more than 2.3% saturated fat. However, in November 2012, the Danish Tax Ministry announced it would
A law in Japan makes it illegal for citizens of that country to be fat. [SEP] Fat tax // as part of the solution to Britain's obesity problem. Japan implemented the 'metabo' law which included the measurement of waist sizes in 2008 in attempt to overcome increasing obesity rates. "The New York Times" wrote: "To reach its goals of shrinking the overweight population by 10 percent over the next four years and 25 percent over the next seven years, the government will impose financial penalties on companies and local governments that fail to meet specific targets. The country’s Ministry of Health argues that the campaign will keep the spread of diseases like diabetes and strokes in check." The 'metabo'
A law in Japan makes it illegal for citizens of that country to be fat. [SEP] Body image law // disorder. The Israeli government passed a body image law in 2012 which became operational the following year. The law requires models to have a minimum body mass index to work and if an image was photoshopped to make the model appear thinner, it must have a warning. The warning must state that the image was modified and it must take up at least seven percent of the image. Breaches can result in a civil lawsuit. The French Government passed a similar law in 2015 which came into effect in 2017. This law requires that models provide their employers with a
A law in Japan makes it illegal for citizens of that country to be fat. [SEP] Japanese Women Don't Get Old or Fat // Japanese Women Don't Get Old or Fat Japanese Women Don't Get Old Or Fat is a book written by Naomi Moriyama and co-written by her husband William Doyle. First it tells briefly about how an obesity epidemic is taking over, and goes into detail about the facts on how Japanese people have the lowest rates of obesity in the developed world, the longest life expectancies of any country in the world, and low rates of heart disease. The book also teaches home-style Japanese cuisine, and provides information about essential everyday ingredients in a typical Japanese home, along with recipes. Naomi
A law in Japan makes it illegal for citizens of that country to be fat. [SEP] Ethnic issues in Japan // the Japanese government does not issue work permits unless it can be demonstrated that the person has certain skills which cannot be provided by locals. A handful of apartments, motels, night clubs, brothels, sex parlours and public baths in Japan have put up signs stating that foreigners are not allowed, or that they must be accompanied by a Japanese person to enter. However, many Japanese claim that these signs are very rare and the prohibitions are due to perceived social incompatibility—for example, foreigners may not understand Japanese bathhouse etiquette—and not racism. In February 2002 plaintiffs sued a Hokkaido bathhouse in
A law in Japan makes it illegal for citizens of that country to be fat. [SEP] Epidemiology of obesity // obesity was 26.3% in 2008. Prevalence of obesity was more among women (39.5%) than men (14.5%). Using the WHO criteria Japan has the lowest rate of obesity among the OECD member countries at 3.2%. However, as Asian populations are particularly susceptible to the health risks of excess adipose tissue the Japanese have redefined obesity as any BMI greater than 25. Using this cut off value the prevalence of obesity in Japan would be 20%, a threefold increase from 1962 to 2002. A 2008 report stated that 28.6% of men and 20.6% of women in Japan were considered to be obese.
A law in Japan makes it illegal for citizens of that country to be fat. [SEP] Fat acceptance movement // British people had been victimised because of their weight. The report recommended that Members of Parliament Investigated putting "appearance-based discrimination" under the same legal basis as sexual or racial discrimination via the Equality Act 2010 which makes it illegal to harass, victimise or discriminate against anyone on the basis of a number of named categories. including size or weight There has also been an emerging body of academic studies with a fat activist agenda. Marilyn Wann argues that fat studies moved beyond being an individual endeavour to being a field of study with the 2004 conference "Fat Attitudes: An Examination
A law in Japan makes it illegal for citizens of that country to be fat. [SEP] Fat acceptance movement // and Madison (1970s) have also passed laws prohibiting weight discrimination. In the cities that have a weight discrimination law it is rare for more than 1 case a year to be brought, except for San Francisco which may have as many as 6. Opinions amongst city enforcement workers vary as to why the prosecution numbers are so low, although they all suggested that both overweight people and employers were unaware of the protective legislation and it was also noted that the cities with anti-weight discrimination laws tended to be liberal college towns. However, not all legal changes have protected the
A law in Japan makes it illegal for citizens of that country to be fat. [SEP] Japanese Women Don't Get Old or Fat // Moriyama also states how Japanese women have, in general, a healthy outlook on food. Japanese Women Don't Get Old or Fat Japanese Women Don't Get Old Or Fat is a book written by Naomi Moriyama and co-written by her husband William Doyle. First it tells briefly about how an obesity epidemic is taking over, and goes into detail about the facts on how Japanese people have the lowest rates of obesity in the developed world, the longest life expectancies of any country in the world, and low rates of heart disease. The book also teaches home-style Japanese cuisine, and provides
A law in Japan makes it illegal for citizens of that country to be fat. [SEP] Fat acceptance movement // rights of fat people. Despite recommendations from the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission to the contrary, the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit has decided that fat people will only qualify as disabled if it can be proved that their weight is caused by an underlying condition, supporting the concept that being obese is not inherently a disability. Other countries besides the United States have considered legislation to protect the rights of fat people. In the UK an All Party Parliamentary Group published a report in 2012 called "Reflections on Body Image" that found that 1 in 5
US births hit a 30-year low, despite good economy. [SEP] Demography of the United States // from 2007 to 2009 is believed to be associated with the Great Recession. A study by the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ) found that more than half (51 percent) of live hospital births in 2008 and 2011 were male. Per U.S. federal government data released in March 2011, births fell 4% from 2007 to 2009, the largest drop in the U.S. for any two-year period since the 1970s. Births have declined for three consecutive years, and are now 7% below the peak in 2007. This drop has continued through 2010, according to data released by the U.S. National
US births hit a 30-year low, despite good economy. [SEP] Demography of the United States // Center for Health Statistics in June 2011. Numerous experts have suggested that this decline is largely a reflection of unfavorable economic conditions. This connection between birth rates and economic downturns partly stems from the fact that American birth rates have now fallen to levels that are comparable to the Great Depression of the 1930s. Teen birth rates in the U.S. are at the lowest level in U.S. history. In fact, teen birth rates in the U.S. have consistently decreased since 1991 through 2011, except for a brief increase between 2005 and 2007. The other aberration from this otherwise steady decline
US births hit a 30-year low, despite good economy. [SEP] Birth rate // June 2011. Experts have suggested that this decline is a reflection of unfavorable economic conditions. The connection between birth rate and economic conditions stems from the fact that US birth rates have fallen to levels comparable to those during the Great Depression during the 1930s. A state-level look at fertility, based on a report published by the Pew Research Center in October 2011, points out the strong correlation between lower birth rates and economic distress. In 2008, North Dakota had the nation's lowest unemployment rate (3.1 percent) and was the only state to show an increase (0.7 percent) in its
US births hit a 30-year low, despite good economy. [SEP] Birth rate // highest birth rate in the UK in 40 years. However, the UK record year for births and birth rate remains 1920 (when the ONS reported over 957,000 births to a population of "around 40 million"). According to U.S. federal-government data released in March 2011, births fell four percent from 2007 to 2009 (the largest drop in the U.S. for any two-year period since the 1970s). Births have declined for three consecutive years, and are now seven percent below the 2007 peak. This drop has continued through 2010, according to data released by the U.S. National Center for Health Statistics in
US births hit a 30-year low, despite good economy. [SEP] Birth rate // economic change affect fertility. Research suggests that much of the fertility decline during an economic downturn is a postponement of childbearing, not a decision to have fewer (or no) children; people plan to "catch up" to their plans of bearing children when economic conditions improve. Younger women are more likely than older women to postpone pregnancy due to economic factors, since they have more years of fertility remaining. In July 2011, the U.S. National Institutes of Health announced that the adolescent birth rate continues to decline. In 2013, teenage birth rates in the U.S. were at the lowest level in
US births hit a 30-year low, despite good economy. [SEP] Birth rate // percent fewer unmarried births than states that are lax about getting unmarried dads to pay, the researchers found. Moreover, according to the results, if all 50 states in the United States had done at least as well in their enforcement efforts as the state ranked fifth from the top, that would have led to a 20 percent reduction in out-of-wedlock births. The United States population growth is at an historical low level as the United States current birth rates are the lowest ever recorded. The low birth rates in the contemporary United States can possibly be ascribed to the recession,
US births hit a 30-year low, despite good economy. [SEP] History of the United States (1964–1980) // along with the steadily increasing acceptance of abortion and delayed marriages for career-minded young women influenced by second-wave feminism, or the chic rejection of the responsibilities of marriage altogether in favor of living together without raising a family, U.S. birthrates fell below replacement level starting in 1965 and remained depressed for almost 20 years; thus, children born during this period became known, at least in the popular press, as "baby busters" (as opposed to the "baby boomers" of the postwar years). Birthrates hit an all-time low during the post-OPEC recession in the mid-1970s. As the decade drew to a close,
US births hit a 30-year low, despite good economy. [SEP] Demographics of the world // geographic area, based on different demographic groups. For example, in April 2011, the U.S. CDC announced that the birth rate for women over the age of 40 in the U.S. rose between 2007 and 2009, while it fell among every other age group during the same time span. In August 2011, Taiwan's government announced that its birth rate declined in the previous year, despite the fact that it implemented a host of approaches to encourage its citizens to have babies. Birth rates ranging from 10-20 births per 1000 are considered low, while rates from 40-50 births per 1000 are considered
US births hit a 30-year low, despite good economy. [SEP] Childbirth // U.S. rate has risen to 26.4. By comparison, the United Kingdom ranks second highest at 9.2 and Finland is the safest at 3.8. Furthermore, for every one of the 700 to 900 U.S. woman who die each year during pregnancy or childbirth, 70 experience significant complications such as hemorrhage and organ failure, totaling more than 1 percent of all births. Compared to other developed nations, the United States also has high infant mortality rates. The Trust for America's Health reports that as of 2011, about one third of American births have some complications; many are directly related to the mother's
US births hit a 30-year low, despite good economy. [SEP] Great Depression // clothing and medical care. Birthrates fell everywhere, as children were postponed until families could financially support them. The average birthrate for 14 major countries fell 12% from 19.3 births per thousand population in 1930, to 17.0 in 1935. In Canada, half of Roman Catholic women defied Church teachings and used contraception to postpone births. Among the few women in the labor force, layoffs were less common in the white-collar jobs and they were typically found in light manufacturing work. However, there was a widespread demand to limit families to one paid job, so that wives might lose employment if their
Aspirin may cut cancer deaths, but caution urged [SEP] Aspirin // heart disease, aspirin has been thought to decrease the risk of a non-fatal myocardial infarction but not to change the overall risk of death. One study found that among those who have never had a heart attack or stroke, taking aspirin daily for 1 year prevents 1 in 1,667 from having a non-fatal heart attack or stroke, but caused 1 in 3,333 to have a non-fatal bleeding event. However, the study population were at relatively higher risk than those who had never had a heart attack or stroke. A large trial from 2018 in healthy people who were at least
Aspirin may cut cancer deaths, but caution urged [SEP] Aspirin // outweighs the potential harm of an increase in gastrointestinal hemorrhage. The WHI study said regular low dose (75 or 81 mg) aspirin female users had a 25% lower risk of death from cardiovascular disease and a 14% lower risk of death from any cause. Low-dose aspirin use was also associated with a trend toward lower risk of cardiovascular events, and lower aspirin doses (75 or 81 mg/day) may optimize efficacy and safety for people requiring aspirin for long-term prevention. In children with Kawasaki disease, aspirin is taken at dosages based on body weight, initially four times a day for up
Aspirin may cut cancer deaths, but caution urged [SEP] Cancer prevention // use of aspirin can reduce the development of colorectal tumors by 35% in patients with a pre-existing history of polyps 2003 - Results from the Prostate Cancer Prevention Trial (PCPT) Released 2004 - August: “Decades of Progress 1983 to 2003” Published. The first 20 years of the NCI Community Clinical Oncology Program (CCOP), the precursor to the NCI Community Oncology Research Program (NCORP), are documented 2004 - Adenoma Prevention with Celecoxib (APC) Trial Suspended suspended based on an increased incidence of major cardiovascular events in participants taking celecoxib (Celebrex®) 2005 - Results of the Breast Cancer Prevention Trial (BCPT) Updated.
Aspirin may cut cancer deaths, but caution urged [SEP] Cancer prevention // due to the cardiovascular and gastrointestinal side effects they cause overall harm when used for prevention. Aspirin has been found to reduce the risk of death from cancer by about 7%. COX-2 inhibitor may decrease the rate of polyp formation in people with familial adenomatous polyposis however are associated with the same adverse effects as NSAIDs. Daily use of tamoxifen or raloxifene has been demonstrated to reduce the risk of developing breast cancer in high-risk women. The benefit verses harm for 5-alpha-reductase inhibitor such as finasteride is not clear. Vitamins have not been found to be effective at preventing cancer,
Aspirin may cut cancer deaths, but caution urged [SEP] Aspirin // is available as a generic medication. Aspirin is used in the treatment of a number of conditions, including fever, pain, rheumatic fever, and inflammatory diseases, such as rheumatoid arthritis, pericarditis, and Kawasaki disease. Lower doses of aspirin have also been shown to reduce the risk of death from a heart attack, or the risk of stroke in people who are at high risk or who have cardiovascular disease, but not in elderly people who are otherwise healthy. There is some evidence that aspirin is effective at preventing colorectal cancer, though the mechanisms of this effect are unclear. In the United
Aspirin may cut cancer deaths, but caution urged [SEP] Aspirin // and for what indications this combined therapy should be continued after surgery. U.S. guidelines recommend DAPT for at least 12 months, while EU guidelines recommend DAPT for 6–12 months after a drug-eluting stent placement. However, they agree that aspirin be continued indefinitely after DAPT is complete. Aspirin is thought to reduce the overall risk of both getting cancer and dying from cancer. This effect is particularly beneficial for colorectal cancer (CRC) but must be taken for at least 10–20 years to see this benefit. It may also slightly reduce the risk of endometrial cancer, breast cancer, and prostate cancer. Some
Aspirin may cut cancer deaths, but caution urged [SEP] Aspirin // 70 years old, found no difference in preventing cardiovascular events, but a higher risk of serious bleeding. Aspirin appears to offer little benefit to those at lower risk of heart attack or stroke—for instance, those without a history of these events or with pre-existing disease. Some studies recommend aspirin on a case-by-case basis, while others have suggested the risks of other events, such as gastrointestinal bleeding, were enough to outweigh any potential benefit, and recommended against using aspirin for primary prevention entirely. Aspirin has also been suggested as a component of a polypill for prevention of cardiovascular disease. Complicating the
Aspirin may cut cancer deaths, but caution urged [SEP] Missionaries of Charity // were given cold baths; and that aspirin was administered to people with terminal cancer. Fox made no reference to any of these practices, but noted that the inmates were "eating heartily and doing well", and that the sisters and volunteers focused on cleanliness, tending wounds and sores, and providing loving kindness. The use of aspirin to relieve mild pain in those suffering terminal cancer remains standard practice worldwide as approved by the WHO. However, it is inappropriate to do so for stronger pain, or if the pain persists as is common for cancer patients, especially in later stages. The life-span
Aspirin may cut cancer deaths, but caution urged [SEP] Aspirin // Aspirin Aspirin, also known as acetylsalicylic acid (ASA), is a medication used to treat pain, fever, or inflammation. Specific inflammatory conditions in which aspirin is used include Kawasaki disease, pericarditis, and rheumatic fever. Aspirin given shortly after a heart attack decreases the risk of death. Aspirin is also used long-term to help prevent further heart attacks, ischaemic strokes, and blood clots in people at high risk. It may also decrease the risk of certain types of cancer, particularly colorectal cancer. For pain or fever, effects typically begin within 30 minutes. Aspirin is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) and works similar
Aspirin may cut cancer deaths, but caution urged [SEP] History of aspirin // on aspirin's anti-thrombosis drug potential. Elwood began a large-scale trial of aspirin as a preventive drug for heart attacks. Nicholas Laboratories agreed to provide aspirin tablets, and Elwood enlisted heart attack survivors in a double-blind controlled study—heart attack survivors were statistically more likely to suffer a second attack, greatly reducing the number of patients necessary to reliably detect whether aspirin had an effect on heart attacks. The study began in February 1971, though the researchers soon had to break the double-blinding when a study by American epidemiologist Hershel Jick suggested that aspirin prevented heart attacks but suggested that the heart
Bodycad Announces First Use of Its Unicompartmental Knee System in Patients [SEP] Unicompartmental knee arthroplasty // may choose to use a temporary trial. After making sure the proper size implant is selected, the surgeon will put the implant on the ends of the bone and secure it with pegs. Finally, the surgeon will close the wound with sutures. The unicompartmental replacement is a minimally invasive option for people whose arthritis is isolated to either the medial or the lateral compartment. The procedure offers several benefits for patients with a moderately active lifestyle, who have arthritis in just one knee compartment, and who are within normal weight ranges. The surgeon uses an incision of just 3-4 inches;
Bodycad Announces First Use of Its Unicompartmental Knee System in Patients [SEP] Unicompartmental knee arthroplasty // outcomes. In the early 1950s, Duncan C. McKeever theorized that osteoarthritis could be isolated to only one compartment of the knee joint, and that replacement of the entire knee might not be necessary if only one knee compartment were affected. The UKA concept was designed to cause less trauma or damage than traditional total knee replacement by removing less bone and trying to maintain most of the person’s bone and anatomy. The concept was also designed to use smaller implants and thereby keep most of the person’s bone, helping them return to normal function faster. Initially, UKAs were not always
Bodycad Announces First Use of Its Unicompartmental Knee System in Patients [SEP] Khaled J. Saleh // arthroplasty. Working with orthopaedic colleagues, Saleh developed the VEGA knee which was debuted by Aesculap (a B. Braun Melsungen company)in 2012. In addition to its posterior-stabilized kinematics, the VEGA knee features a 7-layer AS coating to minimize wear and low-profile box to preserve more of the patient's native bone. The VEGA's variety of different implant sizes allow each patient to receive a customized fit, and its dual-purpose instruments and simple design decrease surgery time, thereby lowering the risk of infection. Khaled J. Saleh Dr. Khaled J. Saleh is a board-certified orthopaedic surgeon specializing in the diagnosis and treatment of orthopaedic
Bodycad Announces First Use of Its Unicompartmental Knee System in Patients [SEP] David Giorgio Mendes Nassi // Knee Arthroplasty was first re-designed in England and developed in the USA during the early seventies of the previous Century. In 1975 first time in Israel, Knee Arthroplasty was done in the Center for Implant Surgery in Haifa. Within short time the procedure was routinely done in other Israeli Orthopedic departments, years ahead prior to its penetration into European Orthopedics The main properties required from an artificial joint implant are long term strength and stability under cyclic load (up to seven times body weight), bio-chemical inertness, wear resistance and biological bio-compatibility. Years of clinical experience with a variety of metals
Bodycad Announces First Use of Its Unicompartmental Knee System in Patients [SEP] MAKO Surgical Corp. // to perform accurate bone shaping through minimally invasive incisions (knee and hip). MAKO's first MAKOplasty Partial Knee Replacement Procedure was performed in June 2006 by Martin Roche M.D. and the company went public on the NASDAQ with their IPO in February 2008. The company's first MAKOplasty Total Hip Arthroplasty (THA) procedure was performed in October 2010. The company reached milestones with the 500th MAKOplasty procedure performed in 2008, the 1000th by 2009, and more than 23,000 by 2012. MAKO Surgical Corp. markets the RIO Robotic Arm Interactive Orthopedic System and RESTORIS Family of Implants for partial knee and total hip
Bodycad Announces First Use of Its Unicompartmental Knee System in Patients [SEP] Unicompartmental knee arthroplasty // or good outcome. Another study, reported that at 15 years follow up time after the initial surgery, the overall rate of the implant was 93% and 91% of these people reported good or excellent outcomes. Unicompartmental knee arthroplasty Unicompartmental knee arthroplasty (UKA) is a surgical procedure used to relieve arthritis in one of the knee compartments in which the damaged parts of the knee are replaced. UKA surgery may reduce post-operative pain and have a shorter recovery period than a total knee replacement procedure, particularly in people over 75 years of age. Moreover, UKAs may require a smaller incision, less
Bodycad Announces First Use of Its Unicompartmental Knee System in Patients [SEP] Unicompartmental knee arthroplasty // Unicompartmental knee arthroplasty Unicompartmental knee arthroplasty (UKA) is a surgical procedure used to relieve arthritis in one of the knee compartments in which the damaged parts of the knee are replaced. UKA surgery may reduce post-operative pain and have a shorter recovery period than a total knee replacement procedure, particularly in people over 75 years of age. Moreover, UKAs may require a smaller incision, less tissue damage, and faster recovery times. In the United States, the procedure constitutes approximately 8% of knee arthroplasties. In comparisons with a more extensive surgical procedure called high tibial osteotomy, UKA has equal or better
Bodycad Announces First Use of Its Unicompartmental Knee System in Patients [SEP] Orthopedic surgery // geometry) was developed at the same time. Since Charnley, there have been continuous improvements in the design and technique of joint replacement (arthroplasty) with many contributors, including W. H. Harris, the son of R. I. Harris, whose team at Harvard pioneered uncemented arthroplasty techniques with the bone bonding directly to the implant. Knee replacements using similar technology were started by McIntosh in rheumatoid arthritis patients and later by Gunston and Marmor for osteoarthritis in the 1970s developed by Dr. John Insall in New York utilizing a fixed bearing system, and by Dr. Frederick Buechel and Dr. Michael Pappas utilizing a
Bodycad Announces First Use of Its Unicompartmental Knee System in Patients [SEP] Sydney Haje // of Brasília (UnB), performed his orthopedic residency at the Hospital Sarah, and completed a further specialization in physiatry. Starting in 1977, Haje developed the "dynamic remodeling method", a treatment of chest wall deformities pectus carinatum and pectus excavatum based on the use of compression braces in association with exercise protocols, and he continued working in this medical field for the next 35 years, treating close to 5.000 patients. He highlighted that here are time points at which patients should best be treated due to the decreasing flexibility of the thorax during the course of development, – with patients with pectus
Bodycad Announces First Use of Its Unicompartmental Knee System in Patients [SEP] Kevin R. Stone // collagen template in various animal models for meniscus, ligament, articular cartilage and intervertebral disc repair. These trials were subsequently published and led to several research awards including the Albert Trillat Young Investigator’s Award from the International Knee Society and the Cabaud Award in 1990 from the American Orthopaedic Society for Sports Medicine. The FDA approved the first human clinical trial of the collagen meniscus scaffold which was carried out at The Stone Clinic from 1991-1994. Recent 15-year follow-ups on these patients revealed continuing successful outcomes. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration gave U.S. approval for a collagen meniscus implant (CMI)
Canine Carry Outs dog treats contain anti-freeze and are therefore dangerous to dogs. [SEP] Dog bakery // after this recall because dog lovers turned entrepreneurs offer all-natural dog treats made with United States Department of Agriculture approved ingredients, no chemical preservatives and no wheat gluten, the source of the 2007 pet food recall contamination. Packaged dog treats which are like the ones you will find in the grocery store but the difference is that they are hand made. Bakin shakes are seasonings that you can put on your dogs medication so they will eat it because to them it taste like bacon. Classic dog treats look like all types of different shapes like allegators and boats. Dipped
Canine Carry Outs dog treats contain anti-freeze and are therefore dangerous to dogs. [SEP] Dog health // prostatic hyperplasia. Psychological anxieties affecting dogs include noise phobia and separation anxiety. Some common sources of toxins that pets encounter include some plants, human medications and cosmetics, cleaning products, and even some foods. Some foods consumed safely by humans are harmful to dogs: Cocoa within chocolate contains theobromine, a chemical stimulant that, together with caffeine and theophylline, belongs to the group of methylxanthine alkaloids. Dogs are unable to metabolize theobromine effectively. If they eat chocolate, the theobromine can remain in their bloodstreams for days, and dogs may experience fast heart rate, severe diarrhea, epileptic seizures, heart attacks, internal bleeding, and
Canine Carry Outs dog treats contain anti-freeze and are therefore dangerous to dogs. [SEP] Anti-tank dog // Anti-tank dog Anti-tank dogs ( "sobaki-istrebiteli tankov" or "protivotankovye sobaki"; or "Hundeminen", "dog-mines") were dogs taught to carry explosives to tanks, armored vehicles and other military targets. They were intensively trained by the Soviet and Russian military forces between 1930 and 1996 and used in 1941–1942 against German tanks in World War II. Although the original dog training routine was to leave the bomb and retreat so that the bomb would be detonated by the timer, this routine failed and was replaced by an impact detonation procedure which killed the dog in the process. The U.S. military trained anti-tank dogs
Canine Carry Outs dog treats contain anti-freeze and are therefore dangerous to dogs. [SEP] Freeze spray // damage to the animals. Freeze spray Freeze spray (cold spray or vapocoolant) is a type of aerosol spray product containing a liquified gas used for rapidly cooling surfaces, in medical and industrial applications. It is usually sold in hand-held spray cans. It may consist of various substances, which produce different temperatures, depending on the application. With the exception of tetrafluoroethane, many of them are highly flammable. Several other types of compressed gas sprays also have a freezing effect: for example, Gas dusters and carbon dioxide fire extinguishers. For spot-cooling of electronic components during troubleshooting, dimethyl ether or tetrafluoroethane may be
Canine Carry Outs dog treats contain anti-freeze and are therefore dangerous to dogs. [SEP] Shock collar // Any efforts to ban or limit the use of training tools would hinder this communication, and our ability to train dogs would suffer. Working dogs would no longer be able to achieve highly specialized tasks, and families with pet dogs would have fewer options available to correct behavioral problems... Training tools, when properly utilized, are safe and humane". Randall Lockwood PhD, Senior Vice President, Anti-cruelty Initiatives and Legislative Services, The American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (ASPCA) was quoted in a 2007 White Paper titled "The Facts About Modern Electronic Training Devices," produced by Radio Systems, a
Canine Carry Outs dog treats contain anti-freeze and are therefore dangerous to dogs. [SEP] Dog health // eventually death. "One ounce of milk chocolate per pound of body weight is a potentially lethal dose in dogs." In case of accidental intake of chocolate by especially a smaller dog, contact a veterinarian or animal poison control immediately; it is commonly recommended to induce vomiting within two hours of ingestion. If chocolate ingestion is suspected (mostly dark or baking chocolate), hydrogen peroxide can be used to safely induce vomiting, then making a trip to the veterinarian is suggested. Large breeds are less susceptible to chocolate poisoning, but can still die after eating four ounces of chocolate. Carob treats are
Canine Carry Outs dog treats contain anti-freeze and are therefore dangerous to dogs. [SEP] Frosty Paws // range is Frosty Paws Ice Cream Cups, this was the first product line that the company created. It was first marketed as Pet79 Ice Cream Cups, then as Fido Freeze Ice Cream Cups. Originally, Frosty Paws did contain lactose, powdered milk, refined soy flour, corn oil, and fortified vitamins and minerals; it had a vitamin content higher than meat. Its original flavor was vanilla. Tyznik stated that: However, Frosty Paws does not currently contain lactose, as dogs are lactose intolerant animals, and cannot properly digest lactose. Thus, Frosty Paws products are also called frozen treats, instead of ice cream. Frosty
Canine Carry Outs dog treats contain anti-freeze and are therefore dangerous to dogs. [SEP] Antis (dog) // helped the injured Duval to an abandoned farm house nearby, wherein the Czech airman discovered a German Shepherd puppy on the floor in the kitchen. While the dog was not initially fond of Duval, it accepted Bozděch. Concerned that the puppy was emaciated, he began to feed it chocolate, but it would not eat it until the rations were partially melted. Bozděch also found an old frying pan, filled it with snow and melted it so that the dog could drink it. The two airmen realised that they had to make for the French lines at night or risk capture
Canine Carry Outs dog treats contain anti-freeze and are therefore dangerous to dogs. [SEP] Dog toy // dogs that are aggressive chewers have a safe way to satisfy their biting instincts. These toys also help keep dogs' gums and teeth clean and healthy. In general, hard rubber bones and other latex dog toys help improve dogs' overall oral hygiene. Dogs often enjoy gnawing on small tree branches and pinecones. Sticks can also be thrown for the dog to retrieve but this is not recommended due to potential health problems that can develop, including punctures in the mouth. Check with your vet. Balls of all shapes and sizes help keep dogs active and fit. They are a great
Canine Carry Outs dog treats contain anti-freeze and are therefore dangerous to dogs. [SEP] Shock collar // Small Animal Veterinary Association) produced a statement on the risks associated with collars "In principle, the BSAVA opposes the use of electronic shock collars for training and containment of animals. Shocks received during training may not only be acutely stressful, painful and frightening for the animal but also may produce long term adverse effects on behavioural and emotional responses.". On the advice of the RSPCA (Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals) and other welfare groups, the ACPO (Association of Chief Police Officers)banned the use of shock collars for police dog training by all UK police forces. The
Chile ranks third internationally in economic freedom, while the U.S. ranks 17th. [SEP] Chile // freedom, and low perception of corruption. Since July 2013, Chile is considered by the World Bank as a "high-income economy". Chile has the highest degree of economic freedom in South America (ranking 7th worldwide), owing to its independent and efficient judicial system and prudent public finance management. In May 2010 Chile became the first South American country to join the OECD. In 2006, Chile became the country with the highest nominal GDP per capita in Latin America. Copper mining makes up 20% of Chilean GDP and 60% of exports. Escondida is the largest copper mine in the world, producing over
Chile ranks third internationally in economic freedom, while the U.S. ranks 17th. [SEP] Miracle of Chile // regime. The essential contribution came from profound mass rebellions and finally old party elites using institutional mechanisms to bring back democracy. According to the 2015 Index of Economic Freedom (of the Heritage Foundation, Fraser Institute and WSJ), Chile's economy is the 7th freest. Chile is ranked 1st out of 29 countries in the Americas and has been a regional leader for over a decade. Chile's annual GDP growth was 3.2% in 2008 and had averaged 4.8% from 2004 to 2008. The percent of total income earned by the richest 20% of the Chilean population in 2006 was 56.8%, while the
Chile ranks third internationally in economic freedom, while the U.S. ranks 17th. [SEP] Economy of Chile // Foundation's "Index of Economic Freedom" in 2012, Chile has the strongest private property rights in Latin America, scoring 90 on a scale of 100. Chile's AA- S&P credit rating is the highest in Latin America, while Fitch Ratings places the country one step below, in A+. There are three main ways for Chilean firms to raise funds abroad: bank loans, issuance of bonds, and the selling of stocks on U.S. markets through American Depository Receipts (ADRs). Nearly all of the funds raised through these means go to finance domestic Chilean investment. In 2006, the Government of Chile ran a surplus
Chile ranks third internationally in economic freedom, while the U.S. ranks 17th. [SEP] Economic liberalization in the post–World War II era // to the Heritage Foundation and the Wall Street Journal, in 2007 Chile was the world's 11th "most free" economy, and 3rd in the Americas. According to the United Nations Development Report of 2009 Chile has high competitiveness, quality of life, political stability, globalization, economic freedom, low perception of corruption and comparatively low poverty rates. According to the International Monetary Fund Chile "ranks high regionally" in freedom of the press, human development and democratic development. Also according to the IMF Chile has the region's highest GDP to popular ratio (at market prices and purchasing power parity) and also has a high
Chile ranks third internationally in economic freedom, while the U.S. ranks 17th. [SEP] Economy of Chile // were the second lowest among the 34 OECD countries, and the lowest in 2010. Chile has an inequality-adjusted human development index of 0.661, compared to 0.662, 0.680 and 0.542 for neighboring Uruguay, Argentina and Brazil, respectively. In 2008, only 2.7% of the population lived on less than US $2 a day. The Global Competitiveness Report for 2009–2010 ranked Chile as being the 30th most competitive country in the world and the first in Latin America, well above Brazil (56th), Mexico (60th), and Argentina which ranks 85th; it has since fallen out of the top 30. The ease of doing business
Chile ranks third internationally in economic freedom, while the U.S. ranks 17th. [SEP] Economy of the United States // Wall Street Journal" and The Heritage Foundation, the U.S. has dropped out of the top 10 most economically free countries. The U.S. has been on a steady seven-year economic freedom decline and is the only country to do so. The index measures each nation's commitment to free enterprise on a scale of 0 to 100. Countries losing economic freedom and receiving low index scores are at risk of economic stagnation, high unemployment rates, and diminishing social conditions. The 2014 Index of Economic Freedom gave the United States a score of 75.5 and is listed as the twelfth-freest economy in world.
Chile ranks third internationally in economic freedom, while the U.S. ranks 17th. [SEP] Economy of Chile // Economy of Chile Chile is ranked as a high-income economy by the World Bank, and is considered as South America's most stable and prosperous nation, leading Latin American nations in competitiveness, income per capita, globalization, economic freedom, and low perception of corruption. Although Chile has high economic inequality, as measured by the Gini index, it is close to the regional mean. In 2006, Chile became the country with the highest nominal GDP per capita in Latin America. In May 2010 Chile became the first South American country to join the OECD. Tax revenues, all together 20.2% of GDP in 2013,
Chile ranks third internationally in economic freedom, while the U.S. ranks 17th. [SEP] Indices of economic freedom // the 2016 Index of Economic Freedom, Kyrgyz Republic and Tajikistan ranked as "mostly unfree" taking 96th and 149th places 178 respectively. Uzbekistan (#166) and Turkmenistan (#174) ranked as "repressed". Largest economy in the region, Kazakhstan is ahead of all other Central Asian countries and neighboring Russia. Kazakhstan ranked an overall score of 63.6 out of 100 taking 68th place out of 178 countries, one place better than last year. In a review of the literature, Lawson and Hall documented that "[o]ver two-thirds of these studies found economic freedom to correspond to a 'good' outcome such as faster growth, better living
Chile ranks third internationally in economic freedom, while the U.S. ranks 17th. [SEP] Edwin Feulner // to review the results of the annual Index of Economic Freedom, which has been a joint project of "The Wall Street Journal" and the Heritage Foundation since 1995. The index measures individual countries' policies in four broad areas: the rule of law, limited government, regulatory efficiency and open markets. In the 2013 edition, citizens of the United States were lucky we didn't fall out of the top 10 altogether. Our Index score went down a bit over the last year. We held onto the No. 10 slot mostly because Ireland declined enough to wind up in 11th place. As recently
Chile ranks third internationally in economic freedom, while the U.S. ranks 17th. [SEP] Liberal democracy // One objection might be that nations like Canada and Sweden today score just below nations like Chile and Estonia on economic freedom, but that Canada and Sweden today have a higher GDP per capita. However, this is a misunderstanding as the studies indicate effect on economic growth and thus that future GDP per capita will be higher with higher economic freedom. Also according to the index, Canada and Sweden are among the world's nations with the highest economic freedom rankings, due to factors such as strong rule of law, strong property rights and few restrictions against free trade. Critics might
Connecticut reports more vaping-related lung illnesses. [SEP] Education in Norwalk, Connecticut // is the second leading cause of lung cancer, after smoking.) The 700 tests, conducted every five years by state law, found actionable levels of radon in Rowayton, Naramake, Cranbury and Wolfpit elementary schools as well as Richard C. Briggs High School. Mitigation work, including air-suction devices, was done on just over a dozen rooms at the various schools, then a follow-up test was done which found one Wolfpit classroom located farthest away from the air-suction devices still had 5.1 picocuries per liter, so an additional device was installed in early March 2008. In 2006, all high schools, three of the
Connecticut reports more vaping-related lung illnesses. [SEP] Richard Blumenthal // and that the new rules and regulations would lead to an increase in air pollution. While Attorney General, Blumenthal was one of the leaders of a 46-state lawsuit against the tobacco industry, which alleged that the companies involved had deceived the public about the dangers of smoking. Blumenthal argued that the state of Connecticut should be reimbursed for Medicaid expenses related to smoking. In 1998, the tobacco companies reached a $246 billion national settlement, giving the 46 states involved 25 years of reimbursement payments. Connecticut's share of the settlement was estimated at about $3.6 billion. In December 2007, Blumenthal filed
Connecticut reports more vaping-related lung illnesses. [SEP] Safety of electronic cigarettes // the lungs. Many ingredients used in e-liquids have not been examined in the lung. The effects of e-cigarette use in respect to asthma and other respiratory diseases are unknown. A 2015 review found e-cigarettes may induce acute lung disease. A 2015 study found that e-cigarette vapors can induce oxidative stress in lung endothelial cells. Constant lung inflammation as a result of the vapor could result in lung pathogenesis and induce serious diseases, including chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and fibrosis. The limited evidence suggests that e-cigarettes produce less short-term effects on lung function than traditional cigarettes. A 2014 case report observed
Connecticut reports more vaping-related lung illnesses. [SEP] British Lung Foundation // in the political chambers of Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales. The BLF also campaigns to raise public awareness of lung disease and the impact it has on so many lives through poster campaigns, events and by maintaining a media profile. In June 2012 the British Lung Foundation released a report looking at the health impacts of smoking cannabis. In one section, the report claimed ""each cannabis cigarette increases the chances of developing lung cancer by as much as an entire packet of 20 tobacco cigarettes"". The report referenced a 2008 study, "Cannabis use and risk of lung cancer: a case-control
Connecticut reports more vaping-related lung illnesses. [SEP] Electronic cigarette aerosol and liquid // indicating that current evidence is insufficient to determine whether the levels of exhaled vapor are safe to involuntarily exposed bystanders. The report stated that "it is unknown if the increased exposure to toxicants and particles in exhaled aerosol will lead to an increased risk of disease and death among bystanders." The British Medical Association (BMA) reported in 2013 that there are "concerns that the use of e-cigarettes could threaten the norm of not smoking in public places and workplaces." , the only clinical study currently published evaluating the respiratory effects of passive vaping found no adverse effects were detected. A
Connecticut reports more vaping-related lung illnesses. [SEP] Long-term effects of cannabis // that inhaled cannabis is associated with lung disease, although Tashkin's 2013 review has found "no clear link to chronic obstructive pulmonary disease". Of the various methods of cannabis consumption, smoking is considered the most harmful; the inhalation of smoke from organic materials can cause various health problems (e.g., coughing and sputum). Isoprenes help to modulate and slow down reaction rates, contributing to the significantly differing qualities of partial combustion products from various sources. Smoking cannabis has been linked to adverse respiratory effects including: chronic coughing, wheezing, sputum production, and acute bronchitis. It has been suggested that the common practice of
Connecticut reports more vaping-related lung illnesses. [SEP] Positions of medical organizations on electronic cigarettes // compounds emitted in some e-cigarette aerosols are 2,3-pentanedione and diacetyl, which NIOSH has linked to causing obliterative bronchiolitis, a devastating lung disease in workers. Additionally there is also a risk of burns following spontaneous combustion of the lithium battery in the device. In 2010, the American Medical Association called for e-cigarettes to be subject to the same FDA regulations as tobacco and nicotine products. The Association extended this policy in 2014, and endorsed measures aimed at preventing marketing of e-cigarettes to minors. In August 2014, the American Heart Association released a policy statement in which they noted that "current evidence
Connecticut reports more vaping-related lung illnesses. [SEP] Cigarette // cigarettes, is highly addictive. The resulting use of tobacco is the single greatest cause of preventable death globally. Smoking leads most commonly to diseases affecting the heart, liver, and lungs, being a major risk factor for heart attacks, strokes, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) (including emphysema and chronic bronchitis), and cancer (particularly lung cancer, cancers of the larynx and mouth, and pancreatic cancer). It also causes peripheral vascular disease and hypertension. On average, each cigarette smoked is estimated to shorten life by 11 minutes. Starting smoking earlier in life and smoking cigarettes higher in tar increases the risk of these
Connecticut reports more vaping-related lung illnesses. [SEP] Air pollution // Additionally, air pollution has been associated with increased hospitalization and mortality from asthma and COPD. Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) includes diseases such as chronic bronchitis and emphysema. A study conducted in 1960–1961 in the wake of the Great Smog of 1952 compared 293 London residents with 477 residents of Gloucester, Peterborough, and Norwich, three towns with low reported death rates from chronic bronchitis. All subjects were male postal truck drivers aged 40 to 59. Compared to the subjects from the outlying towns, the London subjects exhibited more severe respiratory symptoms (including cough, phlegm, and dyspnea), reduced lung function (FEV
Connecticut reports more vaping-related lung illnesses. [SEP] Electronic cigarette aerosol and liquid // is lower than in cigarette smoke by a factor of between 6 and 880 times lower. For particulate matter emissions, e-cigarettes slightly exceeded the WHO guidelines, but emissions were 15 times less than traditional cigarette use. In January 2014, the International Union Against Tuberculosis and Lung Disease stated "Adverse health effects for exposed third parties (second-hand exposure) cannot be excluded because the use of electronic cigarettes leads to emission of fine and ultrafine inhalable liquid particles, nicotine and cancer-causing substances into indoor air." The dense vapor consists of liquid sub-micron droplets. Since e-cigarettes have not been widely used long enough
Sanofi's Lantus insulin favored over rival: study. [SEP] Insulin analog // to 18 to 26 hours provided by other marketed long-acting insulins such as insulin glargine and insulin detemir). Sanofi-Aventis developed glargine as a longer-lasting insulin analogue, and markets it under the trade name Lantus. It was created by modifying three amino acids. Two positively charged arginine molecules were added to the C-terminus of the B-chain, and they shift the isoelectric point from 5.4 to 6.7, making glargine more soluble at a slightly acidic pH and less soluble at a physiological pH. Replacing the acid-sensitive asparagine at position 21 in the A-chain by glycine is needed to avoid deamination and dimerization
Sanofi's Lantus insulin favored over rival: study. [SEP] Insulin glargine // to over 100 countries and more than 3,5 million patients worldwide. This makes Lantus Germany's largest and most important export pharmaceutical product. Sanofi-Aventis increased its turn-over with Lantus around 28% to 2,45 million €, therefrom 130 Million € in Germany, where approx. 1.8 million people with diabetes use the product. In 2007 Lantus was the 15th highest selling pharmaceutical product in Germany. The investment in the production of Lantus and insulin-pen-manufacturing in Frankfurt-Höchst cost 700 Million €. In 2008 a new manufacturing plant was established for further insulin-pen manufacturing with an investment of 150 Million €. At Sanofi-Aventis the production
Sanofi's Lantus insulin favored over rival: study. [SEP] Intensive insulin therapy // ultralente, and beef ultralente in particular was considered for decades to be the gold standard of basal insulin. Long-acting insulin analogs such as insulin glargine (brand name "Lantus", made by Sanofi-Aventis) and insulin detemir (brand name "Levemir", made by Novo Nordisk) are also used, with insulin glargine used more than insulin detemir. Rapid-acting insulin analogs such as lispro (brand name "Humalog", made by Eli Lilly and Company) and aspart (brand name "Novolog"/"Novorapid", made by Novo Nordisk and "Apidra" made by Sanofi Aventis) are preferred by many clinicians over older regular insulin for meal coverage and high correction. Many people on
Sanofi's Lantus insulin favored over rival: study. [SEP] Insulin glargine/lixisenatide // controversy around the risks of Avandia) Sanofi decided to withdraw the NDA and wait for the results of a Phase III study that was scheduled to be completed in 2015. Sanofi resubmitted the application which the FDA accepted in September 2015, by which time Sanofi had lost the lead in the field of anti-diabetic drugs to Novo Nordisk. Lixisenatide received FDA approval on July 28, 2016. In 2010, Sanofi extended a license agreement it had with Zealand for lixisenatide to allow Sanofi to combine it with insulin glargine, which was Sanofi's best selling drug at the time, with sales of
Sanofi's Lantus insulin favored over rival: study. [SEP] Aventis Pharma // Aventis Pharma Sanofi India Limited, headquartered in Mumbai, is a part of Sanofi group. Sanofi SA and its wholly owned subsidiary Hoechst AG, are the major shareholders of Sanofi India Limited. Its manufacturing portfolio contains medicines for several therapeutic areas including cardiovascular, thrombotic, metabolic disorders, oncology, disorders of the central nervous system, internal medicine. Its primary business is medicines in the dosage forms of liquid injectables, tablets, capsules, ointments, drops and syrup. In July 2003, company launched Lantus, the world's first and only once a day insulin. Sanofi India Limited was incorporated in May 1956 under the name Hoechst Fedco
Sanofi's Lantus insulin favored over rival: study. [SEP] Insulin glargine/lixisenatide // around €3 billion in 2009. Sanofi planned to start the Phase III trial that year. Sanofi submitted the new drug application in December 2015 for the combination and spent a $245M priority voucher to gain a faster review, to try to outrace Novo Nordisk’s Xultophy, a similar combination drug of Novo's insulin Tresiba and Novo's GLP-1 agonist Victoza. Sanofi's application was considered by the same Endocrinologic and Metabolic Drugs Advisory FDA Committee that was considering lixisenatide as a single agent. In May 2016 by a vote of 12-2, with several members of the committee expressing reservations about Sanofi's plans to
Sanofi's Lantus insulin favored over rival: study. [SEP] Lixisenatide // start the Phase III trial that year. Sanofi submitted the NDA in December 2015 for the combination, called LixiLan and it was considered by the same Endocrinologic and Metabolic Drugs Advisory FDA Committee that was considering lixisenatide as a single agent. In May 2016 by a vote of 12-2, with several members of the committee expressing reservations about Sanofi's plans to offer two pens with different ratios of insulin glargine and lixisenatide - one for people who had never taken insulin before and one for people who had; there was also concern about how to handle dosing when switching people
Sanofi's Lantus insulin favored over rival: study. [SEP] Insulin analog // Cochrane's findings. In 2007, Germany's Institute for Quality and Cost Effectiveness in the Health Care Sector (IQWiG) reached a similar conclusion based on absence of conclusive double-blind comparative studies. In its report, IQWiG concluded that there is currently "no evidence" available of the superiority of rapid-acting insulin analogs over synthetic human insulins in the treatment of adult patients with type 1 diabetes. Many of the studies reviewed by IQWiG were either too small to be considered statistically reliable and, perhaps most significantly, none of the studies included in their widespread review were blinded, the gold-standard methodology for conducting clinical research.
Sanofi's Lantus insulin favored over rival: study. [SEP] Sanofi // a strong role, desiring what it called a "local solution", by putting heavy pressure on Sanofi-Synthélabo to raise its bid for Aventis and for Aventis to accept the offer and by rejecting Aventis' poison pill proposal. One of the largest risks in the deal for both sides, was the fate of the patents protecting Clopidogrel (Plavix) which was one of the top-selling drugs in the world at the time and the major source of Sanofi's revenue. In 2006, Iraqis infected with HIV sued Sanofi and Baxter due to HIV-contaminated haemophilia blood products sold by Merieux in the 1980s. In 2006
Sanofi's Lantus insulin favored over rival: study. [SEP] Insulin analog // the yeast genome, and the yeast expressed the insulin analogue, which was then harvested from a bioreactor. This analogue also prevents the formation of hexamers, to create a faster acting insulin. It is approved for use in CSII pumps and Flexpen, Novopen delivery devices for subcutaneous injection. Glulisine is rapid acting insulin analog from Sanofi-Aventis, approved for use with a regular syringe, in an insulin pump. Standard syringe delivery is also an option. It is sold under the name Apidra. The FDA-approved label states that it differs from regular human insulin by its "rapid onset and shorter duration of action".
A photo shows Kamala Harris is “listed as Caucasian on her birth certificate.” [SEP] Kamala (wrestler) // Kamala (wrestler) James Harris (born May 28, 1950) is an American retired professional wrestler, better known by the ring name Kamala. As Kamala, Harris portrayed a fearsome Ugandan "headhunter" who wrestled barefoot and wearing war paint and a loincloth, and approached the ring wearing an African mask and carrying a spear and shield. He is best known for his appearances with the World Wrestling Federation (WWF) in the mid-1980s and early-1990s. Harris was born on May 28, 1950 in Senatobia, Mississippi. He grew up in Coldwater, Mississippi, where his family owned a furniture store. He has four sisters. When he
A photo shows Kamala Harris is “listed as Caucasian on her birth certificate.” [SEP] Kamala Harris // of California, Berkeley. Her name Kamala comes from the Sanskrit word for lotus. Her family lived in Berkeley, California, where both of Harris's parents attended graduate school. She was extremely close to her maternal grandfather, P. V. Gopalan, an Indian diplomat. As a child, she frequently visited her extended family in the Besant Nagar neighborhood of Chennai, Tamil Nadu. Harris grew up going to both a black Baptist Church and a Hindu temple. She has one younger sister, Maya. They both sang in a Baptist choir. Harris's parents divorced when she was 7, and her mother was granted custody of
A photo shows Kamala Harris is “listed as Caucasian on her birth certificate.” [SEP] Kamala Harris // elected California's Attorney General in 2010 and reelected in 2014. On November 8, 2016, she defeated Loretta Sanchez in the 2016 Senate election to succeed outgoing Senator Barbara Boxer, becoming California's third female U.S. Senator and the first of either Indian or Jamaican descent. Harris was born on October 20, 1964, in Oakland, California, to a Tamil mother and Jamaican father. Her mother, Shyamala Gopalan Harris, was a breast cancer scientist who emigrated from Madras in 1960. Her father, Donald Harris, is a Stanford University economics professor who emigrated from Jamaica in 1961 for graduate study in economics at University
A photo shows Kamala Harris is “listed as Caucasian on her birth certificate.” [SEP] Kamala Harris // Kamala Harris Kamala Devi Harris ( ; born October 20, 1964) is an American attorney and politician serving as the junior United States Senator from California since 2017. A member of the Democratic Party, she previously served as the 32nd Attorney General of California from 2011 to 2017. Born in Oakland, California, Harris is a graduate of Howard University and University of California, Hastings College of the Law. In the 1990s, Harris worked in the San Francisco District Attorney's Office and the City Attorney of San Francisco's office. In 2004, Harris was elected District Attorney of San Francisco. Harris was
A photo shows Kamala Harris is “listed as Caucasian on her birth certificate.” [SEP] Kamala (wrestler) // emergency surgery to clear fluid from around his heart and lungs at a hospital in Oxford, Mississippi. Following it, he was put on life support due to complications. The next day, his daughter said he showed signs of improvement but remained on life support. On November 22, it was reported that he was able to breathe on his own yet was unable to talk and remained under intensive care. Kamala (wrestler) James Harris (born May 28, 1950) is an American retired professional wrestler, better known by the ring name Kamala. As Kamala, Harris portrayed a fearsome Ugandan "headhunter" who wrestled
A photo shows Kamala Harris is “listed as Caucasian on her birth certificate.” [SEP] Kamala Harris // the children by court-ordered settlement. After the divorce, her mother moved with the children to Montreal, Québec, Canada, where Shyamala accepted a position doing research at Jewish General Hospital and teaching at McGill University. After graduating from Montreal's Westmount High School in Quebec, Harris attended Howard University in Washington, D.C., where she majored in political science and economics. At Howard, Harris was elected to the liberal arts student council as freshman class representative, was a member of the debate team, and joined the Alpha Chapter of Alpha Kappa Alpha sorority. Harris returned to California, earning her Juris Doctor (J.D.) from
A photo shows Kamala Harris is “listed as Caucasian on her birth certificate.” [SEP] Kamala (wrestler) // a wrestler, under Brazil's friend, "Tiny" Tim Hampton. He moved to Arkansas to continue training and escape the snow in Michigan. Harris debuted in 1978 under the ring name "Sugar Bear" Harris. He spent most of his early career in the Southern United States, also using the ring names "Ugly Bear" Harris and "Big" Jim Harris. His first manager was Percy Pringle. He won his first championship in NWA Tri-State in 1979, teaming with Oki Shikina to win the NWA Tri-State Tag Team Championship. In 1980, Harris joined Southeastern Championship Wrestling as "Bad News" Harris, winning the NWA Southeastern Heavyweight
A photo shows Kamala Harris is “listed as Caucasian on her birth certificate.” [SEP] Kamala Harris // by repealing tax cuts for wealthy Americans and by increasing taxes on corporations. Harris is married to California attorney Douglas Emhoff, who was at one time partner-in-charge at Venable LLP's Los Angeles office. They married on August 22, 2014, in Santa Barbara, California. Harris's sister is Maya Harris, MSNBC political analyst, and her brother-in-law is Tony West, General Counsel of Uber and a former U.S. Justice Department senior official. Harris has two stepchildren, one in college and one in high school. Kamala Harris Kamala Devi Harris ( ; born October 20, 1964) is an American attorney and politician serving as
A photo shows Kamala Harris is “listed as Caucasian on her birth certificate.” [SEP] Kamala (wrestler) // borrow ring attire, Harris met Continental Wrestling Association promoter Jerry Lawler, who offered him a job. Harris, Lawler and Jerry Jarrett developed a new character for Harris, "Kimala" (later adjusted to "Kamala"), drawing upon ideas for a character originally developed for Harris by The Great Mephisto. The character was a vicious Ugandan headhunter with face and body paint copied from a Frank Frazetta painting. His backstory was that he was a former bodyguard of deposed President of Uganda Idi Amin who had been discovered by J.J. Dillon during an excursion to Africa. A promotional vignette aired on WMC-TV featuring a
A photo shows Kamala Harris is “listed as Caucasian on her birth certificate.” [SEP] Kamala Harris // Sheriff's Department's handling of the Mitrice Richardson case. The decision by Harris came about after her initial refusal to look into the case resulted in public outcry and the Richardson's family and supporters submitting over 500 pages of evidence. Mitrice Richardson was a 24-year-old African American woman who was released from the Los Angeles County Sheriff Department in the middle of the night without any means of fending for herself. Her body was later found in an isolated canyon, leaving the family with many unanswered questions. On December 30, 2016, results of the criminal investigation into the Los Angeles County
Sanofi ends research in diabetes, narrows units to spur profit. [SEP] Inhalable insulin // trials to ensure that people would use it the same way as the earlier versions. After conducting further studies, Mannkind submitted a new application, and in June, 2014, the FDA approved Afrezza for both Type I and Type II adult diabetics, with a label restriction for patients having asthma, active lung cancer or COPD. In 2014 Mannkind and Sanofi agreed that Sanofi would take over manufacturing and marketing of Afrezza, but Sanofi said it was dropping the effort in January 2016 due to poor sales of $7.5 million in 2015; the companies formally terminated the agreement in November 2016. At
Sanofi ends research in diabetes, narrows units to spur profit. [SEP] Insulin glargine/lixisenatide // controversy around the risks of Avandia) Sanofi decided to withdraw the NDA and wait for the results of a Phase III study that was scheduled to be completed in 2015. Sanofi resubmitted the application which the FDA accepted in September 2015, by which time Sanofi had lost the lead in the field of anti-diabetic drugs to Novo Nordisk. Lixisenatide received FDA approval on July 28, 2016. In 2010, Sanofi extended a license agreement it had with Zealand for lixisenatide to allow Sanofi to combine it with insulin glargine, which was Sanofi's best selling drug at the time, with sales of
Sanofi ends research in diabetes, narrows units to spur profit. [SEP] Rosiglitazone // after the story first broke in 2007, dropping from $2.5 billion in 2006 to less than $408 million in 2009 in the US. In response to the rise in risk of heart attacks, the Indian government ordered GSK to suspend its research study, called TIDE, in 2010. The FDA also halted the TIDE study in the United States. Three doctors' groups, the Endocrine Society, the American Diabetes Association and the American Association of Clinical Endocrinologists, urged patients to continue to take the drug as it would be much worse to stop all treatment, despite any associated risk, but that patients
Sanofi ends research in diabetes, narrows units to spur profit. [SEP] Sanofi // 2013. In 2007 Sanofi-Aventis expanded on Aventis' prior relationship with Regeneron; in the new deal Sanofi-Aventis agreed to pay Regeneron $100 million each year for five years, under which Regeneron would use its monoclonal antibody discovery platform to create new biopharmaceuticals, which Sanofi-Aventis gained the exclusive right to co-develop. In 2009 the companies expanded the deal to $160 million per year and extended it through 2017. As of 2009 the collaboration had four antibodies in clinical development and had filed an IND for a fifth. Two were against undisclosed targets, one targeted the interleukin-6 receptor as a treatment for rheumatoid
Sanofi ends research in diabetes, narrows units to spur profit. [SEP] Sanofi // (BIO), and Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America (PhRMA). Sanofi's vaccine subsidiary, Sanofi Pasteur, is a member of EuropaBio. The Aventis Foundation, a German charitable trust, was established in 1996 as the Hoechst Foundation with an endowment of €50 million. In 2000, the foundation was renamed the Aventis Foundation. Its aim is to promote music, theater, art, literature, higher education and healthcare research. Sanofi Sanofi S.A. is a French multinational pharmaceutical company headquartered in Paris, France, as of 2013 the world's fifth-largest by prescription sales. The company was formed as Sanofi-Aventis in 2004 by the merger of Aventis and Sanofi-Synthélabo,
Sanofi ends research in diabetes, narrows units to spur profit. [SEP] Sanofi // that it would acquire Bioverativ for $11.6 billion and days later announced it would acquire Ablynx for €3.9 billion ($4.8 billion). The following is an illustration of the company's major mergers, acquisitions and historical predecessors: Product recall and effects: The Epinephrine auto-injection devices made by Sanofi SA currently on the market in the U.S. and Canada were voluntarily recalled on 28 October 2015. The reason stated by Sanofi was that the products have been found to potentially have inaccurate dosage delivery, which may include failure to deliver drug. Sanofi US also added the following warning: If a patient experiencing a
Sanofi ends research in diabetes, narrows units to spur profit. [SEP] Sanofi // Innovative Medicines Initiative of EFPIA and the European Commission. In June 2010, Sanofi and the Charite University of Berlin signed a cooperation agreement for the research and development of medicines and therapies. On 25 October 2012, Sanofi said its earnings for the third quarter slumped as generic competitors ate into profits of its Eloxatin cancer treatment. In 2005 Sanofi Pasteur, vaccines division of Sanofi Group, was awarded a $97 Million HHS contract in 2005. In the fall of 2011 a Sanofi Pasteur plant flooded, causing it problems with mold. The facility, located in Toronto, Ontario, Canada, produced BCG vaccine products,
Sanofi ends research in diabetes, narrows units to spur profit. [SEP] Sanofi // pay $200M to Millennium in research fees over five years, one of the largest such deals between a big pharmaceutical company and a biotech company at the time. In late 2000, in the midst of the recall of Starlink, its genetically modified maize product, Aventis announced that it had determined to sell off Aventis Cropscience, the seed and pesticide business unit it had created from the agriculture businesses of its predecessors. In October 2001, Bayer and Aventis announced that Bayer would acquire the unit for about $6.6 billion, with the unit becoming Bayer CropScience and making Bayer the world's second-largest
Sanofi ends research in diabetes, narrows units to spur profit. [SEP] Sanofi // products, among them Allegra, IcyHot for muscle pain, Gold Bond for skin irritation, and Selsun Blue dandruff shampoo. These brands were acquired in 2010 when Sanofi-Aventis purchased Chattem. As of the summer of 2013, Sanofi was in a race with Amgen and Pfizer to win approval for a drug that inhibits PCSK9, a protein that slows the clearance of low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol - the form of cholesterol that leads to heart attacks. Sanofi's drug was discovered by Regeneron and is called alirocumab. An FDA warning in March 2014 about possible cognitive adverse effects of PCSK9 inhibition threw the competition
Sanofi ends research in diabetes, narrows units to spur profit. [SEP] Novo Nordisk // diabetes is incredibly complex but also that Novo Nordisk's mission is to alleviate and cure diabetes. If this new medical advance "...meant the dissolution of Novo Nordisk, that'd be fine." Novo Nordisk was researching pulmonary delivery systems for diabetic medications, and in the early stages of research into autoimmune and chronic inflammatory diseases, using technologies such as translational immunology and monoclonal antibodies In September 2014 the company announced a decision to discontinue all research in inflammatory disorders, including the discontinuation of R&D in anti-IL-20 for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. In September 2018 it was reported that the company would
Eye surgery law sparks unusually public dispute in Arkansas. [SEP] Arkansas HB 1228 // Arkansas HB 1228 Arkansas HB 1228, also known as the Conscience Protection Act, the Religious Freedom Restoration Act, is a law in the state of Arkansas that aims to increase "judicial scrutiny" in cases involving religious beliefs. Opponents of the law say that it will allow for lawful discrimination of LGBT people. On March 31, 2015, the law was passed by the Arkansas Senate. The next day, Governor Asa Hutchinson announced that he would not sign the bill as written, instructing the legislature to make changes to the bill's language. Politifact reports that "Conservatives in Indiana and elsewhere see the
Eye surgery law sparks unusually public dispute in Arkansas. [SEP] Arkansas Act 1 // On April 16, 2010, the law was overturned by Circuit Court Judge Chris Piazza in the case "Arkansas Department of Human Services v. Cole". The ruling was upheld unanimously by the Arkansas Supreme Court on April 7, 2011. Arkansas Act 1 Arkansas Proposed Initiative Act No. 1 (2008) is an initiated state statute that was approved on November 4, 2008 election in Arkansas. This measure makes it illegal for any individuals cohabiting outside of a valid marriage to adopt or provide foster care to minors. While the measure was proposed primarily to prohibit same-sex couples from being adoptive or foster
Eye surgery law sparks unusually public dispute in Arkansas. [SEP] Arkansas HB 1228 // Molly White introduced a bill that would expressly grant private businesses the right to “refuse to provide goods or services to any person based on a sincerely held religious belief or on conscientious grounds.” A similar bill in North Carolina has stalled, with commentators predicting a backlash similar to Indiana's. Arkansas HB 1228 Arkansas HB 1228, also known as the Conscience Protection Act, the Religious Freedom Restoration Act, is a law in the state of Arkansas that aims to increase "judicial scrutiny" in cases involving religious beliefs. Opponents of the law say that it will allow for lawful discrimination of
Eye surgery law sparks unusually public dispute in Arkansas. [SEP] Arkansas Department of Human Services v. Ahlborn // Arkansas, suffered severe and permanently disabling injuries in a car accident on January 2, 1996, and filed suit against those she believed responsible. Following her accident, Ahlborn was granted Medicaid benefits to pay for her extensive medical treatment. The Arkansas Department of Human Services (ADHS), which administers Medicaid in Arkansas with state and federal funds, intervened pursuant to Ark. Code § 20-77-310, et seq., which required anyone receiving third-party compensation for Medicaid benefits to assign those rights to the State. ADHS accordingly sought to claim a lien on any damages Ahlborn might recover from the defendants. In 2002, an out-of-court
Eye surgery law sparks unusually public dispute in Arkansas. [SEP] Jim L. Smithson // m.p.h. to be given for "wasting energy", rather than for actual "speeding". The distinction would have kept speeding violations off insurance records. Arkansas newspapers editorialized against Smithson's bill by claiming that it would cause motorists not to take speed limits seriously. Smithson also cosponsored the bill to allow optometrists to use diagnostic drugs to dilate the pupils of patients' eyes. Ophthalmologists strongly objected, but the measure passed. Smithson's GOP colleagues included Carolyn Pollan of Fort Smith, C. W. Melson of Johnson County, Richard L. Barclay of Rogers, Jerry King of Greenwood, Jerry E. Hinshaw of Springdale, and Judy Petty Wolf
Eye surgery law sparks unusually public dispute in Arkansas. [SEP] Williamson v. Lee Optical Co. // Oklahoma State Legislature had a legitimate interest in requiring a prescription from a licensed optometrist or ophthalmologist. Although opticians were qualified to refit lenses without prescriptions, the Court reasoned that requiring prescriptions in every case would encourage more frequent eye examinations, which may enable early detection of more serious eye conditions. Consequently, if a legitimate governmental interest lies, as reasoned by the Court, the law can survive a Due Process challenge. The Court further held that there was no Equal Protection violation because legislatures were permitted to deal with problems "one step at a time, addressing itself to the phase
Eye surgery law sparks unusually public dispute in Arkansas. [SEP] Dale Alford // of Ophthalmology, College of Surgeons, International Surgeons, and Cataract Refractive Surgeons. He served on the teaching faculty at the University of Arkansas Medical School at Little Rock and from 1948 to 1958. From 1955-1958, he served on the elected Little Rock School Board during the desegregation crisis, believing in a gradual desegregation of schools beginning at the elementary level. He was also an appointed trustee of what became the University of Arkansas at Little Rock. Alford was elected as a write-in candidate in the 1958 general election that occurred in the aftermath of the Little Rock Crisis. He was only
Eye surgery law sparks unusually public dispute in Arkansas. [SEP] Brad Hendricks // combat the unauthorized practice of law, it is imperative that we rid ourselves of these false and petty notions and unite as a profession. By recognizing that we must stand together to protect the public and ourselves from the unauthorized practice of law, we have the opportunity to have an impact on the image of attorneys, while reining in a serious and growing threat to the public and our profession.” He also articulated his concerns about the unauthorized practice of law, which is prohibited in Arkansas by Ark. Code Ann. § 16-22-501: “[U]nlicensed individuals are making inroads into virtually every
Eye surgery law sparks unusually public dispute in Arkansas. [SEP] Williamson v. Lee Optical Co. // optometrist or ophthalmologist to fit lenses to a face or to duplicate or replace into frames lenses or other optical appliances, except upon written prescriptive authority of an Oklahoma licensed ophthalmologist or optometrist. The law required every individual seeking to have eyeglasses made, repaired, or refitted to obtain a prescription. The law had a practical negative effect on unlicensed opticians, but it exempted sellers of ready-to-wear eyeglasses. It was thus challenged on equal protection grounds as well as on due process grounds for arbitrary interference with an optician's right to do business. The District Court ruled that portions of §§
Eye surgery law sparks unusually public dispute in Arkansas. [SEP] Dale Alford // served as a captain during World War II in the United States Army Medical Corps from 1940 to 1946. He was on active duty as a surgeon in the European Theater of operations. Afterwards, from 1947 to 1948, he was an assistant professor at Methodist-affiliated Emory University College of Medicine in Atlanta, Georgia. On his return to Arkansas, he opened a private practice of ophthalmology and was also the chief assistant in ophthalmological surgery at the Veterans Hospital in Little Rock. He was active in all levels of the Arkansas and American Medical Association as well as the American Board
A megalodon capsized a South African charter vessel in April 2013. [SEP] Mega Shark Versus Mecha Shark // Egypt, when suddenly, the iceberg shatters and releases a megalodon from suspended animation. The Mega Shark begins its reign of terror by flipping the tugboat to the air until it crashes and decapitates the Sphinx hundreds of miles away in Giza. Following the incident, several countries around the world place their ports on lockdown and impose a ban on fishing, adversely affecting the world's economy as the megalodon terrorizes the seas. Meanwhile, rumors surface of the United Nations' proposal to develop a weapon to combat the shark. At Pearl Harbor, Jack Turner and Rosie Gray are assigned to pilot the
A megalodon capsized a South African charter vessel in April 2013. [SEP] The Meg // Shortly after, a second, more colossal Megalodon emerges from the water, devours The Wall and the smaller Megalodon, and capsizes the boat. It also devours Heller, who saves another crew member, Jaxx's life by luring it to himself. The surviving crew returns to Mana One in two dinghies, but Zhang succumbs and dies of injuries caused by the bigger Megalodon's attack. Morris announces that he has informed local governments and naval forces, but it is out of their hands. He dismisses the whole crew and advises them to evacuate in the morning. At nightfall, Morris attempts to destroy the Megalodon
A megalodon capsized a South African charter vessel in April 2013. [SEP] Megalodon (2004 film) // over yet as another Megalodon ventures into open waters, passing below a boat with Christen Giddings on board. However, she is unaware of its presence. The film was released in Japan during October 2002, and in the United States during February 2004. Megalodon (2004 film) Megalodon is a 2004 American horror film. It takes place out on a deep-sea oil rig. When a deep sea drilling platform penetrates the sea bed in Greenland, it unleashes a prehistoric shark of enormous power and proportions known as Megalodon. It is known in the UK and other territories as "Sharkzilla". In the North
A megalodon capsized a South African charter vessel in April 2013. [SEP] Megalodon (2004 film) // Megalodon (2004 film) Megalodon is a 2004 American horror film. It takes place out on a deep-sea oil rig. When a deep sea drilling platform penetrates the sea bed in Greenland, it unleashes a prehistoric shark of enormous power and proportions known as Megalodon. It is known in the UK and other territories as "Sharkzilla". In the North Atlantic off the coast of Greenland, a highly advanced deep sea oil rig has been recently constructed by the company Nexecon Petroleum, and named "Colossus" for its immense size. This "new" type of oil rig can dig deeper and extract more oil
A megalodon capsized a South African charter vessel in April 2013. [SEP] Megalodon (2004 film) // than any other in the world. The fact that this huge rig has been built on fault lines alarms geologists, who are concerned that the delicate ocean floor fault lines in that region might be disturbed through deep drilling, with catastrophic consequences. A reporter, Christen Giddings, has been invited by the CEO of Nexecon, Peter Brazier, to the oil rig in an attempt to address the concerns of the geologists. Christen is accompanied by a trusted cameraman Jake Thompson, who will record their findings. The oil rig's crew seem to be convinced that nothing bad will happen, and are skeptical
A megalodon capsized a South African charter vessel in April 2013. [SEP] Mega Shark Versus Crocosaurus // on the Atlantic Ocean, the US Navy warship "USS Gibson" is attacked and sunk by the Megalodon that ended up surviving suffocation by the octopus in the first film. Lt. Terry McCormick (Jaleel White) who was experimenting with a sonic shark-repelling device, is the sole survivor of the attack. Back in DR Congo, an English hunter named Nigel Putnam (Gary Stretch) successfully captures the giant crocodile when it attempts to eat him and he injects his tranquilizer darts into its mouth. He then has the crocodile delivered to a shipping yard for his friends to load it in a cargo
A megalodon capsized a South African charter vessel in April 2013. [SEP] Megalodon: The Monster Shark Lives // Megalodon: The Monster Shark Lives Megalodon: The Monster Shark Lives is a 2014 pseudo-documentary first aired on American TV network Discovery Channel about the possible survival of the prehistoric shark. The story, with only short disclaimers at the beginning and ending indicating that it is fictional, revolves around the loss of a fishing boat and all of its crew off the coast of Cape Town, South Africa and an ensuing investigation that points to an attack by a member of the species "megalodon", a prehistoric shark thought to be long extinct. Its format is that of a documentary that includes
A megalodon capsized a South African charter vessel in April 2013. [SEP] Megalodon (2004 film) // of the geologists. Brazier hopes that a documented report on "Colossus" will reveal that his rig has all the necessary safety arrangements and that the region is stable enough for a drilling operation. As the drilling commences, a rich oil deposit is discovered. However, further drilling is not stopped and an "ocean floor fault line" gets ruptured, which opens a portal to a "mirror" ocean, hidden under the normal ocean for millions of years and containing prehistoric life. An explosion occurs and the drilling system collapses. A team of engineers descend through a glass elevator to assess the situation. A
A megalodon capsized a South African charter vessel in April 2013. [SEP] The Meg // himself by ordering a helicopter crew to drop modified depth charges at it, citing that the creature's actions could result in lawsuits. He approaches the carcass of the supposed Megalodon in a boat but discovers it's a whale. When the Megalodon approaches, the boat accelerates, causing Morris to fall overboard and be eaten by the Megalodon. Taylor and the remaining Mana One crew discover Morris' deception and resolve to track and kill the shark, realizing that it is en route to a crowded beach on the Sanya Bay. The Megalodon kills several beachgoers before the Mana One crew plays audio
A megalodon capsized a South African charter vessel in April 2013. [SEP] SS Makambo // a boat capsized during the evacuation of passengers and crew from the vessel. The ship was only temporarily out of service until repairs could be made; however, "Makambo" was aground for nine days before she was refloated. The incident had allowed black rats to leave the ship and go ashore on the island, where they thrived. This introduction gave rise to an environmental disaster, with the rats causing the extinction of several of the island’s endemic birds and other fauna in the next few years through predation, as well as causing hardship to the islanders by raiding their crops and
Study: CT scans rule out heart attacks faster [SEP] Coronary CT angiography // arrhythmias, coronary artery stents and tachycardia may result in a reduced image quality. With the advent of subsecond rotation combined with multi-slice CT (up to 320 slices), high resolution and high speed can be obtained at the same time, allowing excellent imaging of the coronary arteries (cardiac CT angiography). Images with even higher temporal resolution can be obtained using multi-cycle (also called multi-segmental) image reconstruction. In this technique, a portion of the heart is imaged during one heart cycle while an ECG trace is recorded. During the next heart cycle, the next portion of the heart is scanned for up
Study: CT scans rule out heart attacks faster [SEP] Electron beam tomography // structures, such as arteries, move several times their diameter during each heartbeat. Rapid imaging is therefore important to prevent blurring of moving structures during the scan. EBT detection of calcium deposits is accurate, fast and involves lower exposure to ionising radiation than conventional CT. Patients are exposed to radiation for a shorter period as it is faster in creating multiple images of the heart. The most advanced current commercial designs can perform image sweeps in as little as 0.025 seconds. By comparison, the fastest mechanically swept X-ray tube designs require about 0.25 seconds to perform an image sweep. For reference,
Study: CT scans rule out heart attacks faster [SEP] Vulnerable plaque // performed clinically with the goal of predicting susceptibility to future heart attack. In contrast to conventional angiography, cardiac CT angiography does enable visualization of the vessel wall as well as plaque composition. Some of the CT derived plaque characteristics can help predict for acute coronary syndrome. In addition, because these lesions do not produce significant stenoses, they are typically not considered "critical" and/or interventionable by interventional cardiologists, even though research indicates that they are the more important lesions for producing heart attacks. The tests most commonly performed clinically with the goal of testing susceptibility to future heart attack include several
Study: CT scans rule out heart attacks faster [SEP] Coronary CT angiography // a number of clinical settings. The faster capability has allowed the imaging of the heart with minimal involuntary motion, which creates motion blur on the image, and has a number of practical applications. It may be useful in the diagnosis of suspected coronary heart disease, for follow-up of a coronary artery bypass, for the evaluation of valvular heart disease and for the evaluation of cardiac masses. It is uncertain whether this modality will replace invasive coronary catheterization. At present, it appears that the greatest utility of cardiac CT lies in ruling out coronary artery disease rather than ruling it in.
Study: CT scans rule out heart attacks faster [SEP] Angiography // be clearly determined. Coronary angiography can visualize coronary artery stenosis, or narrowing of the blood vessel. The degree of stenosis can be determined by comparing the width of the lumen of narrowed segments of blood vessel with wider segments of adjacent vessel. To detect coronary artery disease, a CT scan is more satisfactory than an MRI scan. The sensitivity and specificity between CT and MRI were (97.2 percent and 87.4 percent) and (87.1 percent and 70.3 percent), respectively. Therefore, CT (mainly multislice CT) is more accepted, more widely available, more favored by patients, and more economic. Moreover, CT requires shorter
Study: CT scans rule out heart attacks faster [SEP] Coronary CT angiography // half a rotation, thus reducing motion blurring at high heart rates and potentially allowing for shorter breath-hold time. This is particularly useful for ill patients having difficulty holding their breath or unable to take heart-rate lowering medication. The speed advantages of 64-slice MSCT have rapidly established it as the minimum standard for newly installed CT scanners intended for cardiac scanning. Manufacturers have developed 320-slice and true 'volumetric' scanners, primarily for their improved cardiac scanning performance. Introduction of a CT scanner with a 160 mm detector in 2014 allows for imaging of the whole heart in a single beat without motion
Study: CT scans rule out heart attacks faster [SEP] Myocardial infarction // an ultrasound scan of the heart, is able to visualize the heart, its size, shape, and any abnormal motion of the heart walls as they beat that may indicate a myocardial infarction. The flow of blood can be imaged, and contrast dyes may be given to improve image. Other scans using radioactive contrast include SPECT CT-scans using thallium, sestamibi (MIBI scans) or tetrofosmin; or a PET scan using Fludeoxyglucose or rubidium-82. These nuclear medicine scans can visualize the perfusion of heart muscle. SPECT may also be used to determine viability of tissue, and whether areas of ischemia are inducible. Medical
Study: CT scans rule out heart attacks faster [SEP] Cardiac imaging // anesthesia and in a non-invasive way. A coronary CT calcium scan is a computed tomography (CT) scan of the heart for the assessment of severity of coronary artery disease. Specifically, it looks for calcium deposits in the coronary arteries that can narrow arteries and increase the risk of heart attack. This severity can be presented as Agatston score or Coronary Artery Calcium (CAC) score. The CAC score is an independent marker of risk for cardiac events, cardiac mortality, and all-cause mortality. In addition, it provides additional prognostic information to other cardiovascular risk markers. A typical coronary CT calcium scan is
Study: CT scans rule out heart attacks faster [SEP] Cardiomegaly // works during physical activity. 5. Cardiac computerized tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). In a cardiac CT scan, one lies on a table inside a machine called a gantry. An X-ray tube inside the machine rotates around the body and collects images of the heart and chest. 6. Blood tests: Blood tests may be ordered to check the levels of substances in the blood that may show a heart problem. Blood tests can also help rule out other conditions that may cause one's symptoms. 7. Cardiac catheterization and biopsy: In this procedure, a thin tube (catheter) is inserted in
Study: CT scans rule out heart attacks faster [SEP] Coronary CT angiography // to 5 total cycles until the entire heart is imaged. The reconstruction algorithm then combines the images from these different cycles to generate one complete image. The advantage of this method is that each image segment is acquired in less time as compared to acquiring the entire heart in one heart cycle, thus improving temporal resolution. The disadvantages are 1) the potential for image artifacts from fusing the image segments and 2) the requirement of additional X-ray radiation for image acquisition. Dual Source CT scanners, introduced in 2005, allow higher temporal resolution by acquiring a full CT slice in only
Black and white caterpillars can cause severe allergic reactions in some people who touch them. [SEP] Lophocampa caryae // setae arranged in spreading tufts. Most are white, but there are black tufts along the middle of the back, and four long black hair pencils, two near the front, and two near the back. These hairs cause itchy rashes (contact dermatitis) in many people, particularly those prone to allergies, and may resemble exposure to urushiol. They are microscopically barbed and may cause serious medical complications if they are transferred from the hands to the eyes. There are black spots along the sides, and the head capsule is black. The later-instar caterpillars are seen between July to October. They feed in
Black and white caterpillars can cause severe allergic reactions in some people who touch them. [SEP] Caterpillar // on into the adult stages. These toxic species, such as the cinnabar moth ("Tyria jacobaeae") and monarch ("Danaus plexippus") caterpillars, usually advertise themselves with the danger colors of red, yellow and black, often in bright stripes (see aposematism). Any predator that attempts to eat a caterpillar with an aggressive defense mechanism will learn and avoid future attempts. Some caterpillars regurgitate acidic digestive juices at attacking enemies. Many papilionid larvae produce bad smells from extrudable glands called osmeteria. Many caterpillars display feeding behaviors which allow the caterpillar to remain hidden from potential predators. Many feed in protected environments, such as enclosed
Black and white caterpillars can cause severe allergic reactions in some people who touch them. [SEP] Pine processionary // development, pine processionary caterpillars are highly irritating to the skin. Contact with the hairs of the caterpillar can cause severe rashes (urticaria) and eye irritation. Some individuals may have an allergic reaction to the caterpillar's hairs. 5th stage larvae can eject hairs when threatened or stressed; the hairs, which have the form of harpoons, then penetrate and irritate all areas of exposed skin nearby with an urticating protein. Allergic reactions may follow in susceptible individuals on subsequent exposure to the hairs. The pine processionary is an economic pest in coniferous forests in southern Europe. It is controlled to some extent
Black and white caterpillars can cause severe allergic reactions in some people who touch them. [SEP] Cethosia biblis // lacewing has a bad taste, deriving from the poisonous host plants of the caterpillars. The dorsal sides of the wings of the females are greyish-brownish with black spots and white bands and spots on the black margins. Caterpillars have several reddish, black and white stripes, a black head and long black spikes that contain poison. In fact they mainly feed on poisonous climbing plants, mainly "Passiflora" species ("P. cochinchinensis", "P. moluccana", etc.). This species can be found from the Indian subcontinent eastwards to South-East Asia and East Asia, the eastern limit being the Philippines, and the southern limit being Indonesia.
Black and white caterpillars can cause severe allergic reactions in some people who touch them. [SEP] Papilio appalachiensis // to exist, but researchers found two black females on the summit of Spruce Knob in West Virginia. The caterpillars of "Papilio" species are usually smooth and vary in color from green to yellow orange. In addition, they have black markings to mimic the appearance of bird droppings or the head of another bug with large "eyes". The eyespot consists of areas of yellow ringed with black with a smaller, light purple spot (also ringed in black) inside. Additionally, a small black spot on top of the "eye" gives it the appearance of a true eye. This form of mimicry provides
Black and white caterpillars can cause severe allergic reactions in some people who touch them. [SEP] Lasiocampa quercus // that changes their behaviour, causing them to climb out of the protection of low scrub and leave them open to predation, facilitating the spread of the infection. The caterpillar hairs of some species of moth, such as the oak processionary moth ("Thaumetopoea processionea"), can cause skin irritation, but there is no evidence that the oak eggar is one of these, despite the similar name. The caterpillar pupates on the ground inside a silken cocoon, the exterior of which is hard and yellowish, and resembles an acorn, hence the moth's name. "Eggar" is an obsolete word again relating to the shape
Black and white caterpillars can cause severe allergic reactions in some people who touch them. [SEP] Agonopterix alstroemeriana // moth of the "Depressariidae" family, "Exaeretia canella", which is similar in coloration. However, "E. canella" does not have a reddish spot, and has a dark head. As eggs, they have a pale, off-white color. As caterpillars, they are yellow with a black head. After growing in size (to around 10 mm), the caterpillars are thin and have a light green color, with three prominent stripes on the sides of their bodies, which are a darker green. "A." "alstroemeriana" is a wide-ranging species native to Europe, that has more recently spread to North America and New Zealand. In North America, it
Black and white caterpillars can cause severe allergic reactions in some people who touch them. [SEP] Syntomeida epilais // moth's abdomen is bright red; it looks like a very dangerous wasp, but in fact is a harmless moth. The caterpillars are orange or dark orange with long black hairs. The caterpillars look dangerous, but the setae do not inflict any harm. Females contact male polka-dot wasp moths by means of ultrasonic signals. On the branch, the sound travels, and then the male follows the sound to his new mate. When he reaches her, he emits an answering signal. After mating, the females find a plant on which to lay their eggs. Groups of from 12 to 75 eggs are
Black and white caterpillars can cause severe allergic reactions in some people who touch them. [SEP] Lepidoptera // own toxins. Predators that eat poisonous butterflies and moths may become sick and vomit violently, learning not to eat those species. A predator which has previously eaten a poisonous lepidopteran may avoid other species with similar markings in the future, thus saving many other species, as well. Toxic butterflies and larvae tend to develop bright colors and striking patterns as an indicator to predators about their toxicity. This phenomenon is known as aposematism. Some caterpillars, especially members of Papilionidae, contain an osmeterium, a Y-shaped protrusible gland found in the prothoracic segment of the larvae. When threatened, the caterpillar emits unpleasant
Black and white caterpillars can cause severe allergic reactions in some people who touch them. [SEP] Lonomia obliqua // long, with background colors ranging from green to brown. Well camouflaged, they have rows of tubercles crowned with whorls of easily detachable spines of different sizes. Caterpillars of many species can cause irritation by their hollow body hairs that envenom or detach easily, or can be poisonous if ingested; however, prior to investigations into "Lonomia" caterpillars, it was not known that caterpillars could produce toxins which in sufficient quantities could kill a human being. "Lonomia obliqua" is found in the south of Brazil in the states of Rio Grande do Sul, Santa Catarina, and Paraná. The species appears to be
Gene therapy improves sight in near-blind patients. [SEP] Gene therapy // results in independent clinical trials using gene therapy to treat the condition. In all three clinical trials, patients recovered functional vision without apparent side-effects. In September researchers were able to give trichromatic vision to squirrel monkeys. In November 2009, researchers halted a fatal genetic disorder called adrenoleukodystrophy in two children using a lentivirus vector to deliver a functioning version of ABCD1, the gene that is mutated in the disorder. An April paper reported that gene therapy addressed achromatopsia (color blindness) in dogs by targeting cone photoreceptors. Cone function and day vision were restored for at least 33 months in two
Gene therapy improves sight in near-blind patients. [SEP] Choroideremia // choroideremia is an ideal candidate for gene therapy there are other potential therapies that could restore vision after it has been lost later in life. Foremost of these is stem cell therapy. A clinical trial published in 2014 found that a subretinal injection of human embryonic stem cells in patients with age-related macular degeneration and Stargardt disease was safe and improved vision in most patients. Out of 18 patients, vision improved in 10, improved or remained the same in 7, and decreased in 1 patient, while no improvement was seen in the untreated eyes. The study found "no evidence of
Gene therapy improves sight in near-blind patients. [SEP] Gene therapy of the human retina // Gene therapy of the human retina Retinal gene therapy holds a promise in treating different forms of non-inherited and inherited blindness. In 2008, three independent research groups reported that patients with the rare genetic retinal disease Leber's congenital amaurosis had been successfully treated using gene therapy with adeno-associated virus (AAV). In all three studies, an AAV vector was used to deliver a functional copy of the RPE65 gene, which restored vision in children suffering from LCA. These results were widely seen as a success in the gene therapy field, and have generated excitement and momentum for AAV-mediated applications in retinal
Gene therapy improves sight in near-blind patients. [SEP] Vision rehabilitation // related to vision cease translating faulty proteins. Gene therapy seems to be the most prominent field that might be able to restore vision through therapy. However, there are some problems with gene therapy which can lead to severe conditions such as death. For physical approaches to vision rehabilitation, most of the training is focused on ways to make environments easier to deal with for those with low vision. Occupational therapy is commonly suggested for these patients. Also, there are devices that help patients achieve higher standards of living. These include video magnifiers, peripheral prism glasses, transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS),
Gene therapy improves sight in near-blind patients. [SEP] Gene therapy of the human retina // for the treatment of choroideremia. Dr. Robert MacLaren of the University of Oxford, who lead the trial, co-developed the treatment with Dr. Miguel Seabra of the Imperial College, London. This Phase 1/2 trial used subretinal AAV to restore the REP gene in affected patients. Initial results of the trial were reported in January 2014 as promising as all six patients had better vision. Recent research has shown that AAV can successfully restore color vision to treat color blindness in adult monkeys. Although this treatment has not yet entered clinical trials for humans, this work was considered a breakthrough for the
Gene therapy improves sight in near-blind patients. [SEP] Virotherapy // successful, faced considerable delays due to safety issues as the uncontrolled delivery of a gene into a host genome has the potential to disrupt tumour suppressing genes and induce cancer, and did so in two cases. Immune responses to viral therapies also pose a barrier to successful treatment, for this reason eye therapy for genetic blindness is attractive as the eye is an immune privileged site, preventing an immune response. An alternative form of viral gene therapy is to deliver a gene which may be helpful in preventing disease that would not normally be expressed in the natural disease condition.
Gene therapy improves sight in near-blind patients. [SEP] Leber's congenital amaurosis // therapy to restore vision in LCA patients. In all three clinical trials, patients recovered functional vision without apparent side-effects. These studies, which used adeno-associated virus, have spawned a number of new studies investigating gene therapy for human retinal disease. The results of a phase 1 trial conducted by the University of Pennsylvania and Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia and published in 2009 showed sustained improvement in 12 subjects (ages 8 to 44) with RPE65-associated LCA after treatment with AAV2-hRPE65v2, a gene replacement therapy. Early intervention was associated with better results. In that study, patients were excluded based on the presence of
Gene therapy improves sight in near-blind patients. [SEP] Visual impairment // encouraging for researchers. It is hoped that gene therapy may be even more effective in younger LCA patients who have experienced limited vision loss, as well as in other blind or partially blind individuals. Two experimental treatments for retinal problems include a cybernetic replacement and transplant of fetal retinal cells. Statements that certain species of mammals are "born blind" refers to them being born with their eyes closed and their eyelids fused together; the eyes open later. One example is the rabbit. In humans, the eyelids are fused for a while before birth, but open again before the normal birth
Gene therapy improves sight in near-blind patients. [SEP] Gene therapy for color blindness // therapy should be feasible for humans as well. It is also theoretically possible for trichromats to be "upgraded" to tetrachromats by introducing new opsin genes. The goal of the gene therapy is to make some of the cones in the retina of a dichromat individual to express the missing photopigment. Although partial color blindness is considered to be a mild disability and even an advantage under certain circumstances (such as spotting camouflaged objects), it can pose challenges for many occupations such as Law Enforcement, Airline pilot, Railroad workers and military service. More generally, color codes in maps and figures may
Gene therapy improves sight in near-blind patients. [SEP] Gene therapy for color blindness // of life will improve (or worsen) after the therapy. Gene therapy for color blindness Gene therapy for color blindness is an experimental gene therapy aiming to convert congenitally colorblind individuals to trichromats by introducing a photopigment gene that they lack. Though partial color blindness is considered only a mild disability and is controversial whether it is even a disorder, it is a condition that affects many people, particularly males. Complete color blindness, or achromatopsia, is very rare but more severe. While never demonstrated in humans, animal studies have shown that it is possible to confer color vision by injecting a
Two-fifths of U.S. adults care for sick, elderly relatives. [SEP] Long-term care // factors often contribute to an increased need for paid care. In many countries, the largest percentages of older persons needing LTC services still rely on informal home care, or services provided by unpaid caregivers (usually nonprofessional family members, friends or other volunteers). Estimates from the OECD of these figures often are in the 80 to 90 percent range; for example, in Austria, 80 percent of all older citizens. The similar figure for dependent elders in Spain is 82.2 percent. The US Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services estimates that about 9 million American men and women over the age of
Two-fifths of U.S. adults care for sick, elderly relatives. [SEP] Family caregivers // of such responsibilities is not new, the frequency may have increased over time due to shorter hospital stays, adults living longer with significant ailments, and technological and health care improvements allowing more nursing or medical care to be provided at home. This trend has implications for families, patients, family caregivers’ workplaces, health care organizations, and insurers, including Medicare and Medicaid. A survey by AARP in 2010 states that "29% of the U.S. adult population, or 65.7 million people, are caregivers, including 31% of all households. These caregivers provide an average of 20 hours of care per week." 1.4 million children
Two-fifths of U.S. adults care for sick, elderly relatives. [SEP] Elderly care // in the United States, 26% of all Medicare spending, 18% of all non-Medicare spending, and 25 percent of all Medicaid spending for the poor. In the United States, most of the large multi-facility providers are publicly owned and managed as for-profit businesses. There are exceptions; the largest operator in the US is the Evangelical Lutheran Good Samaritan Society, a not-for-profit organization that manages 6,531 beds in 22 states, according to a 1995 study by the American Health Care Association. Given the choice, most older adults would prefer to continue to live in their homes (aging in place). Many elderly people
Two-fifths of U.S. adults care for sick, elderly relatives. [SEP] Elderly care // room and board, personal care and habilitation services in a family environment for at least two and no more than six persons. According to Family Caregiver Alliance, the majority of family caregivers are women: "Many studies have looked at the role of women and family caregiving. Although not all have addressed gender issues and caregiving specifically, the results are still generalizable [sic] to According to the United States Department of Health and Human Services the older population—persons 65 years or older—numbered 39.6 million in 2009. They represented 12.9% of the U.S. population, about one in every eight Americans. By 2030,
Two-fifths of U.S. adults care for sick, elderly relatives. [SEP] Family caregivers // and nursing services combined. By 2009, about 61.6 million caregivers were providing "unpaid" care at a value that had increased to an estimated $450 billion. It is projected that nearly one in five United States citizens will be 65 years of age or older by the year 2030. By 2050 this older population is expected to double in size. A 2011 survey of family caregivers in the United States found that almost half (46%) take on tasks that are traditionally considered “nursing” or “medical,” such as injections, wound care, and operating medical equipment and monitors. While the family caregivers’ assumption
Two-fifths of U.S. adults care for sick, elderly relatives. [SEP] Caregiving by country // million that occupied 9.1 percent of the total and has increased 0.25 percentage points. As a steadily increasing older population with a growing demand for long-term care, an issue of lacking of elderly care facilities as well as inadequate training for skilled caregivers has generated a social concern pertaining to elder care. According to the official Chinese media Xinhua, professionally qualified caregivers are in great request with approximately 10 million people needed to provide care for the Chinese aging population. However, the report also stated that only 300,000 people currently working as caregivers with less than 1/3 of them are
Two-fifths of U.S. adults care for sick, elderly relatives. [SEP] Caregiver // themselves may face serious health and social risks as a result of stress associated with continuous caregiving. Three fifths of family caregivers age 19-64 surveyed recently by the Commonwealth Fund reported fair or poor health, one or more chronic conditions, or a disability, compared with only one-third of non-caregivers. In the United States today there are approximately 61.6 million people (referenced above) who are caring at home for family members including elderly parents, and spouses and children with disabilities and/or chronic illnesses. Without this home-care, most of these cared for loved ones would require permanent placement in institutions or health
Two-fifths of U.S. adults care for sick, elderly relatives. [SEP] Caregiving by country // provided unpaid care for a chronically ill, disabled or aged family member or friend at an estimated value of $450 billion. 1.4 million children ages 8 to 18 provide care for an adult relative; 72% are caring for a parent or grandparent, although most are not the sole caregiver. 30% of family caregivers caring for older individuals are themselves aged 65 or over; another 15% are between the ages of 45 to 54. Licensing and certification for caregiving can vary by state. In some states, the only licensing needed is by the company that employs the caregivers (unless it is
Two-fifths of U.S. adults care for sick, elderly relatives. [SEP] Caregiving by country // programs, or a combination of the three sources. According to the United Nations the Ukrainian Institute of Gerontology completed a study in 1998 which included 8,574 adults of retirement age, and the results demonstrated that older adults rely on older spouses, relatives or others, and departments of community social centers for care. In addition, 10 percent of the participants had an agreement with their caregiver(s) to trade inheritance of their property for the care that they were receiving. The United Nations also describes the very underfunded and understaffed situation of the country, which has effected the quality of services available
Two-fifths of U.S. adults care for sick, elderly relatives. [SEP] Caregiver stress // to be a caregiver, they will inflict more stress on themselves by accepting the role. The American Academy of Geriatric Psychiatrists reports one out of four American families provide care for a family member over the age of 50. By 2030, the U.S. Census Bureau estimates a population of 71 million Americans over 65. In the U.K., over 450,000 dementia patients are cared for at home. The American Academy of Family Physicians and the National Center on Caregiving both believe all caregivers should be screened for stress and depression and recommend providing caregivers with their own resources to help them
Pantene shampoo and conditioner leave a build-up on hair that causes it to heat up and "smoke" when combined with highlight foils. [SEP] Hairstyling product // is always a risk of the hair drying out when using any type of styling product. Some styling products contain ingredients that can dissolve the hair's natural oils, or ingredients which can cause a build-up that results in so-called "dull hair". This build-up of harmful ingredients can cause problems such as dry hair, hair breakage, eczema, or the thinning of hair. When using a hair dryer to dry and shape one's hair, the heat being applied can cause damage to the hair strands. This heat damage can be prevented by using some sort of heat protectant spray. Hairstyling product Hairstyle
Pantene shampoo and conditioner leave a build-up on hair that causes it to heat up and "smoke" when combined with highlight foils. [SEP] Hair care // to the hair, even ingredients from shampoo or conditioners. Common concerns surrounding dandruff (often associated with excessive sebum); psoriasis, eczema, or seborrheic dermatitis. An odor that persists for a few weeks despite regular hair washing may be an indication of a health problem on the scalp skin. Not all flakes are dandruff. For example, some can merely be product buildup on the scalp skin. This could result from the common practice of applying conditioner to scalp skin without washing. This would dry upon the scalp skin and flake off, appearing like dandruff and even causing itchiness, but have no health
Pantene shampoo and conditioner leave a build-up on hair that causes it to heat up and "smoke" when combined with highlight foils. [SEP] Pantene // Pantene Pantene () is an American brand of hair care products owned by Procter & Gamble. The product line was first introduced in Europe in 1945 by Hoffmann-La Roche of Switzerland, which branded the name based on panthenol as a shampoo ingredient. It was purchased by Procter & Gamble (P&G) in 1985 in order for P&G to compete in the "beauty product" market rather than only functional products. The brand's best-known product became the 2-in-1 shampoo and conditioning formula, Pantene Pro-V (Pantene Pro-Vitamin). The product became most noted due to an advertising campaign in the late 1980s in which fashion
Pantene shampoo and conditioner leave a build-up on hair that causes it to heat up and "smoke" when combined with highlight foils. [SEP] Greasy hair // not washing the hair for a long duration will lead to a buildup of sebum in the hair follicles. Hair conditioners can decrease the likelihood of developing greasy hair after shampooing. Some cosmetics companies produce shampoos and conditioners specifically to deal with greasy hair and for oily or dry hair problems. Massaging the scalp and exposure to the sun can reduce the problem of greasy hair. In some men, a greased back wet hair look is considered desirable, and numerous hair gels and waxes specialize in giving a wet look appearance. Greasy hair Greasy hair is a hair condition which
Pantene shampoo and conditioner leave a build-up on hair that causes it to heat up and "smoke" when combined with highlight foils. [SEP] Conservation and restoration of fur objects // depending on the institution. Temperature should be kept as stable as possible between 10 °C and 22 °C. "Warm environments can cause the release of residual fats in skins resulting in hair loss." Excessive heat causes shrinkage in the fibers, it makes the skin brittle and more prone to tears. Whereas excess moisture leads to swelling, distortion, putrefaction (if not properly cured) and mold growth. The combination of both cause the collagen to break down and threaten the physical integrity of the piece. Some insecticides used as pest prevention like, Camphor, napthalene, and para-dichlorobenzene (PDB) can be harmful to some
Pantene shampoo and conditioner leave a build-up on hair that causes it to heat up and "smoke" when combined with highlight foils. [SEP] Hairstyling product // dense. Volumizers come in many forms such as shampoos, conditioners, sprays, pomades and lotions. Hair volumizers contain humectants, which work by attracting moisture from the surrounding areas to the hair strand, thereby swelling the hair and making it look thicker. Various polymers present in the volumizer coat the hair strand, making it look thicker and shiny. Shampoo and conditioner forms of the volumizers are used just like ordinary shampoo or conditioners. The spray and lotion form of volumizers are used on damp hair near the roots of the hair. In order to use a hair volumizer, the person using the
Pantene shampoo and conditioner leave a build-up on hair that causes it to heat up and "smoke" when combined with highlight foils. [SEP] Frizz // and split ends. Recommendations for minimizing heat damage include using heat styling tools set on low, using a diffuser when blow drying, and never using a curling iron or flat iron on wet hair. Direct heat can boil the water in the hair, causing bubbles to form inside the hair fiber, weakening the hair. Some authors recommend avoiding heat altogether, and allowing the hair to air-dry. Other common causes of hair damage include the use of relaxers and other harsh chemicals; use of a razor to cut curly hair, which weakens the hair cuticle and promotes frizz; and harsh shampoos
Pantene shampoo and conditioner leave a build-up on hair that causes it to heat up and "smoke" when combined with highlight foils. [SEP] Hair highlighting // blending and to diminish the line of demarcation once the new growth is showing. Foil highlighting is the process of using foil to separate strands of hair which will be lightened from strands of hair which will remain its natural color. The process is done by applying lightener to the hair that has been woven and separated using an applicator brush. The foil is then folded to protect the hair and surrounding area during the "processing" time. This is the amount of time required to achieve the desired results. In highlighting hair, hydrogen peroxide mixed with pigment is used to
Pantene shampoo and conditioner leave a build-up on hair that causes it to heat up and "smoke" when combined with highlight foils. [SEP] Relaxer // in place for a "cooking" interval, during which it alters the hair's texture by a process of controlled damage to the protein structure. The hair can be significantly weakened by the physical overlap of excessive applications or by a single excessive one, leading to brittleness, breakage, or even widespread alopecia. When the relaxer has worked to the desired degree, the hair is rinsed clean. Regardless of formula, relaxers are always alkaline to some degree, so it is prudent to neutralize or even slightly acidify the hair with a suitable shampoo immediately afterward. The prompt use of hair conditioner is also
Pantene shampoo and conditioner leave a build-up on hair that causes it to heat up and "smoke" when combined with highlight foils. [SEP] Hair highlighting // Hair highlighting Hair highlighting/lowlighting is changing a person's hair color, using lightener or haircolor to color hair strands. There are four basic types of highlights: foil highlights, hair painting, frosting, and chunking. Highlights can be done in natural or unnatural colors. Color highlights come in four categories: temporary, semi-permanent, demi-permanent and permanent. Hair lightened with bleach or permanent color will be permanent until new growth begins to growth. Highlighted hair will make the hair appear fuller. Therefore, it is recommended on people with thin and fine hair. It also recommended for people with at least 50 % gray for easy
“Does the #DemConvention know @NYGovCuomo forced nursing homes across NY to take in COVID positive patients and planted the seeds of infection that killed thousands of grandmothers and grandfathers?” [SEP] New York Cancer Hospital // Towers Nursing Home. The nursing home later became infamous for its negligence and lack of standards. The elderly patients testified to "atrocious conditions," including inadequate heat, pest infestations, physical abuse and negligence. The patients weren't the only ones being neglected either. The old facilities were unkempt, filthy, and a "pungent odor" filled the air. The once immaculate building, became a sad derelict place. A state and federal investigation ensued, following a probe into allegations of Medicaid and Tax fraud that ultimately caused the home to close its doors in 1974. The former New York Cancer Hospital was left in such
“Does the #DemConvention know @NYGovCuomo forced nursing homes across NY to take in COVID positive patients and planted the seeds of infection that killed thousands of grandmothers and grandfathers?” [SEP] Joel Landau // After attempting to find suitable care for his grandfather, he stated in an interview that he noticed local nursing homes lacked resources to provide quality care. Following this experience, Landau and The Allure Group purchased the bankrupt Victory Memorial Hospital in 2010, and developed the site into what is now known as the Hamilton Park Nursing and Rehabilitation Center. This early success led Landau to purchase more New York City-based nursing homes and begin to improve the physical plants, staffing and overall state of these facilities. He subsequently purchased others including two Brooklyn-based nursing homes in 2011 and 2012. Landau
“Does the #DemConvention know @NYGovCuomo forced nursing homes across NY to take in COVID positive patients and planted the seeds of infection that killed thousands of grandmothers and grandfathers?” [SEP] Safe Care Campaign // by Victoria and Armando Nahum after three members of their family acquired nosocomial infections in hospitals in three different states in the timespan of a year, ultimately resulting in the death of their son, Joshua. Safe Care Campaign The Safe Care Campaign is an Atlanta, Georgia (United States) based corporation seeking to help eradicate hospital acquired infections. Its goal is to instigate a national change in ideology and practices within the health care environment in regard to hand hygiene. The organization compiles, develops, distributes and promotes educational resource material and targeted media campaigns to inform and assist patients and medical
“Does the #DemConvention know @NYGovCuomo forced nursing homes across NY to take in COVID positive patients and planted the seeds of infection that killed thousands of grandmothers and grandfathers?” [SEP] Operation Sea-Spray // but said any link to their experiments was totally coincidental. The Army pointed out that no other hospitals reported similar outbreaks and all 11 victims had urinary-tract infections following medical procedures, suggesting that the source of their infections lay inside the hospital. In 1981 Nevin's surviving family members filed suit against the federal government, alleging negligence. "My grandfather wouldn't have died except for that, and it left my grandmother to go broke trying to pay his medical bills," says Mr. Nevin's grandson, Edward J. Nevin III, a San Francisco attorney who filed the case in U.S. District Court. The lower
“Does the #DemConvention know @NYGovCuomo forced nursing homes across NY to take in COVID positive patients and planted the seeds of infection that killed thousands of grandmothers and grandfathers?” [SEP] Bernard Bergman // served as editor and publisher of the Yiddish-language daily "The Jewish Morning Journal" and head of Hapoel HaMizrachi. He started to build his network of nursing homes in the 1960s, with the former New York Cancer Hospital on Central Park West at 106th Street was acquired in 1955 and operated by Bergman as the Towers Nursing Home. The home became the center of federal and state fraud charges. Claims were made that patients in the home were abused and neglected, with residents testifying that they had not been given adequate heat and had been subjected to physical abuse and pest
“Does the #DemConvention know @NYGovCuomo forced nursing homes across NY to take in COVID positive patients and planted the seeds of infection that killed thousands of grandmothers and grandfathers?” [SEP] Rivington House // nursing home,” and “would consider converting the property into a luxury apartment building and forgo the nursing home renovation.”" The city of New York opened an investigation into what had gone wrong with their management of the situation. However, the probe found no illegal conduct. The city announced they could not sue The Allure Group, as legally they had not done anything wrong and determined instead that there was a need to revamp its own internal policies and procedures. Despite the controversy caused by the sale and removing the deed restriction from Rivington House, the state legislators decided to reject
“Does the #DemConvention know @NYGovCuomo forced nursing homes across NY to take in COVID positive patients and planted the seeds of infection that killed thousands of grandmothers and grandfathers?” [SEP] Claire Fagin // who was a dermatologist in Queens. She elected to study nursing at Wagner College and earned a doctorate at New York University. Her doctoral dissertation covered the concept of "rooming in" for parents of hospitalized children. She continued her research in this area, which influenced the perception of parental visitation in hospitals. She served as Dean of the School of Nursing at the University of Pennsylvania from 1977 to 1992, when she left to do geriatric nursing research as a Scholar in Residence at the Institute of Medicine, National Academy of Sciences. She was Presidential Chair in early 1993 at
“Does the #DemConvention know @NYGovCuomo forced nursing homes across NY to take in COVID positive patients and planted the seeds of infection that killed thousands of grandmothers and grandfathers?” [SEP] Visiting Nurse Service of New York // Nurses, among many others. Current President and CEO of Visiting Nurse Service of New York (VNSNY) is Marki Flannery. The company conducts research to increase the evidence base for health care at home, and established the VNSNY Center for Home Care Policy & Research in 1993. Its IT innovations have been the subject of research VNSNY acts as a liaison between patient and government bodies such as the state and federal legislatures, as well as regulatory bodies such as the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services and the New York State Department of Health and the Department of Insurance. The
“Does the #DemConvention know @NYGovCuomo forced nursing homes across NY to take in COVID positive patients and planted the seeds of infection that killed thousands of grandmothers and grandfathers?” [SEP] Northern Rivers Vaccination Supporters // posting on the NRVS Facebook page by Dr. Rachel Heap went viral. It reads in part, "And what do you say when he gives influenza to his grandma? How do you explain she won't be coming home from hospital? Not ever.", and continues: "Do you tell them you didn't think these diseases were that serious? That you thought that your organic, home cooked food was enough to protect them? Do you say sorry?" The post drew worldwide attention from pro-vaccine groups, anti-vaccine groups and others. Heap was asked why she wrote that Facebook post in a 2018 interview on breakfast
“Does the #DemConvention know @NYGovCuomo forced nursing homes across NY to take in COVID positive patients and planted the seeds of infection that killed thousands of grandmothers and grandfathers?” [SEP] I nuovi mostri // the thread of his phone voluntarily off the hook. A man, incited by the cruel lover, brings his elderly mother in a nursing home, trying to convince the woman to stay cheerful. But the mother is not happy, because she's aware that the life of the retired hospice is sad and devastating. The woman does not trust even the nurses, and tries to escape, but his son takes her up and forces her to enter the hospice. When the mother is taken away by the nurses, the son has a moment of repentance and cries to the nurses to treat
On-and-off fasting helps fight obesity [SEP] Intermittent fasting // intermittent fasting in obese people showed that reducing calorie intake one to six days per week over at least 12 weeks was effective for reducing body weight on an average of ; the results were not different from a simple calorie restricted diet, and the clinical trials reviewed were run mostly on middle-aged women from the US and the UK, limiting interpretation of the results. Intermittent fasting has not been studied in children, the elderly, or underweight people, and could be harmful in these populations. Intermittent fasting is under preliminary research for how it may affect cardiovascular and metabolic biomarkers,
On-and-off fasting helps fight obesity [SEP] Fasting in Islam // [[Fasting]] is one of the alternatives proved to reduce the [[DPP-4]] level and activate the [[dipeptidyl peptidase-4 inhibitor]]s and so, prevent [[osteoporosis]]. On the other hand, the [[circadian rhythm]] has a direct relationship with osteoporosis. This has been found by the [[biochemical markers]], indicating that fasting at certain hours of the day, especially during those hours of the day which are recommended as part of the Muslim tradition (Islamic fasting), is very effective in reducing the effects of osteoporosis. Fasting is said to inculcate a sense of fraternity and solidarity with the needy and hungry. Most importantly, the fast is
On-and-off fasting helps fight obesity [SEP] Fasting // than 24 hours, known as intermittent fasting, have been shown to be effective for weight loss in obese and healthy adults and to maintain lean body mass, some writers argue that using fasting for weight loss is unnecessary. It has been argued that fasting makes one more appreciative of food. In rare occurrences, fasting can lead to refeeding syndrome. Fasting is often used as a tool to make a political statement, to protest, or to bring awareness to a cause. A hunger strike is a method of non-violent resistance in which participants fast as an act of political protest, or
On-and-off fasting helps fight obesity [SEP] Obesity in the Middle East and North Africa // at Kuwait's Dasman Institute for Research, Training, and Prevention of Diabetes & Other Chronic Conditions. Educating the public about how to eat a healthy diet was the purpose of the fair. However, unlike other initiatives, participants were told how to eat well and enjoy food at the same time. In 2010, the New Mowasat Hospital hosted a Ramadan health forum. Entitled "Stay Healthy...While Fasting", the audience was lectured on diabetes and obesity and the health benefits of fasting. Four qualified doctors from the New Mowasat Hospital's Cardiology, Diabetology, Dietetics, and Urology Department, presented medical information and advice. They spoke on
On-and-off fasting helps fight obesity [SEP] Mark Mattson // and related drugs are being tested in patients with mild cognitive impairment and Alzheimer's disease. Mattson’s research on animal models and human subjects has resulted in the widespread adoption of intermittent fasting as an intervention to optimize health and reduce the risk of many major chronic diseases including obesity, diabetes, cancer, asthma and other inflammatory disorders, cardiovascular disease and neurodegenerative disorders. Animal studies performed in Mattson’s Laboratory showed that intermittent fasting has profound beneficial effects on the body and brain including: 1) Improved glucose regulation; 2) Loss of abdominal fat with maintenance of muscle mass; 3) Reduced blood pressure and
On-and-off fasting helps fight obesity [SEP] Obesity in the Middle East and North Africa // unhealthy weight in daily newspapers. During Ramadan, it established a program called "Hello Ramadan." It provided health information related to fasting and allowed listeners to call in to learn more about diabetes and high blood pressure. Listeners could also receive medical information via fax from the program. The United Arab Emirates has launched an intense campaign to address the high rates of obesity. It began its campaign in 2007 and has continued it today. In the summer of 2007, the Sanofi-Aventis along with the World Health Organization sponsored an event with free health screenings. The purpose was to raise awareness
On-and-off fasting helps fight obesity [SEP] Dieting // increased long-term weight reduction. (References given in main article.) Fasting is when there is a long time interval between the meals. In dieting, fasting is not recommended, instead, having small portions of food after small intervals is encouraged. Lengthy fasting can also be dangerous due to the risk of malnutrition and should be carried out only under medical supervision. During prolonged fasting or very low calorie diets the reduction of blood glucose, the preferred energy source of the brain, causes the body to deplete its glycogen stores. Once glycogen is depleted the body begins to fuel the brain using ketones,
On-and-off fasting helps fight obesity [SEP] Fasting // an elevated triglyceride measurement. Fasting or intermittent calorie restriction may affect cancer and tumor development, but are not currently used as a form of treating cancer. In 2011, the American Cancer Society recommended that people undergoing chemotherapy increase their intake of protein and calories, but provided evidence that a short-term period of fasting may have benefits during chemotherapy. Chronic fasting is not recommended for people with cancer at risk for weight loss or a suppressed immune system. In one review, fasting improved alertness, mood, and subjective feelings of well-being, possibly improving overall symptoms of depression. Although fasting for periods shorter
On-and-off fasting helps fight obesity [SEP] Intermittent fasting // such as body fat, LDL cholesterol, triglycerides, insulin sensitivity, blood pressure. Alternate day fasting does not appear to affect lean body mass. Intermittent fasting may reduce rapid eye movement sleep, but other effects on brain function remain undetermined. There is no evidence that fasting can prevent or treat cancer. Understanding the potential adverse effects of intermittent fasting is limited by an inadequate number of rigorous clinical trials. One 2015 review of low-quality clinical studies found that short-term intermittent fasting may produce minor adverse effects, such as continuous feelings of weakness and hunger, headaches, fainting, or dehydration. Long-term fasting may cause
On-and-off fasting helps fight obesity [SEP] Dieting // Nineteen Day Fast from sunrise to sunset during March each year. Weight loss diets that manipulate the proportion of macronutrients (low-fat, low-carbohydrate, etc.) have been shown to be more effective than diets that maintain a typical mix of foods with smaller portions and perhaps some substitutions (e.g. low-fat milk, or less salad dressing). Extreme diets may, in some cases, lead to malnutrition. Nutritionists also agree on the importance of avoiding fats, especially saturated fats, to reduce weight and to be healthier. They also agree on the importance of reducing salt intake because foods including snacks, biscuits, and bread already contain
Over 1,000 quarantined in measles scare at LA universities. [SEP] Vaccine controversies // 644, including transmission by unvaccinated visitors to Disneyland in California. Some 97% of cases in the first half of the year were confirmed to be due directly or indirectly to importation (the remainder were unknown), and 49% from the Philippines. 165 of the 288 victims (57%) during that time were confirmed to be unvaccinated by choice; 30 (10%) were confirmed to have been vaccinated. The final count of measles in 2014 was 668 cases in 27 states. From January 1 to June 26, 2015, 178 people from 24 states and the District of Columbia were reported to have measles. Most
Over 1,000 quarantined in measles scare at LA universities. [SEP] Epidemiology of measles // States in the first five months of 2014, a twenty-year high. In January 2015, it was reported that over 70 people who had visited Disneyland or Disney California Adventure between Dec. 15 and Dec. 20 fell ill with measles, with 62 of them residing in California. The total number of cases included five people who had been fully vaccinated against the disease. Between the dates of January 1 and 28, 2015, most of the 84 people who were diagnosed with measles were either infected during their visit to Disneyland or by someone who visited the theme park. In spring 2017,
Over 1,000 quarantined in measles scare at LA universities. [SEP] Epidemiology of measles // 2008, a total of 127 cases were reported in 15 states (including 22 in Arizona), making it the largest U.S. outbreak since 1997 (when 138 cases were reported). Most of the cases were acquired outside of the United States and afflicted individuals who had not been vaccinated. By July 30, 2008, the number of cases had grown to 131. Of these, about half involved children whose parents rejected vaccination. The 131 cases occurred in seven different outbreaks. There were no deaths, and 15 hospitalizations. Eleven of the cases had received at least one dose of measles vaccine. Children who were
Over 1,000 quarantined in measles scare at LA universities. [SEP] Epidemiology of measles // 1 and April 25, 2008, a total of 64 confirmed measles cases were preliminarily reported in the United States to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the most reported by this date since 2001, and the highest total number in six years. Of the 64 cases, 54 were associated with importation of measles from other countries into the United States, and 63 of the 64 patients were unvaccinated or had unknown or undocumented vaccination status. By July 9, 2008, a total of 127 cases were reported in 15 states, making it the largest US outbreak since 1997 (when 138
Over 1,000 quarantined in measles scare at LA universities. [SEP] Eradication of infectious diseases // had one major outbreak of measles originating from an amusement park in California of a variant of the virus circulating in the Philippines in 2014. From this there have been 113 individual measles cases and one death (out of the total of 189 cases in the U.S. in 2015). The WHO region of the Americas declared on 27 September 2016 it had eliminated measles. The last confirmed endemic case of measles in the Americas was in Brazil in July 2015. May 2017 saw a return of measles to the US after an outbreak in Minnesota among unvaccinated children. The WHO
Over 1,000 quarantined in measles scare at LA universities. [SEP] MMR vaccine // second vaccine to the recommended schedule. Fewer than 200 cases have been reported each year between 1997 and 2013, and the disease is no longer considered endemic. The benefit of measles vaccination in preventing illness, disability, and death has been well documented. The first 20 years of licensed measles vaccination in the U.S. prevented an estimated 52 million cases of the disease, 17,400 cases of intellectual disability, and 5,200 deaths. During 1999–2004, a strategy led by the World Health Organization and UNICEF led to improvements in measles vaccination coverage that averted an estimated 1.4 million measles deaths worldwide. Between 2000
Over 1,000 quarantined in measles scare at LA universities. [SEP] Epidemiology of measles // cases and four deaths, representing almost six-times the number of cases in 2016. The number of cases for 2013 through 2016 were 2211, 1674, 251 and 844. Beginning in April 2009 there was a large outbreak of measles in Bulgaria, with 23,791 cases, including 24 deaths, reported up to 28 July 2010. From Bulgaria, the strain was carried to Germany, Turkey, Greece, Macedonia, and other European countries. Between January 2008 and May 2012, 22,000 measles cases were reported in France. 5,000 patients were hospitalised including 1,023 with severe pneumonia, 27 with encephalitis and/or myelitis, and 10 died. An awareness campaign
Over 1,000 quarantined in measles scare at LA universities. [SEP] Epidemiology of measles // schedule or discourage vaccination, among them Bob Sears and Jay Gordon for reducing vaccination rates and thus weakening herd immunity, and creating a situation in which an outbreak was more likely. California passed a mandatory vaccination law in June 2015. In Spring 2015, a death of an immune-suppressed woman in Washington State caused by measles was diagnosed after autopsy. This was the first U.S. measles death since 2003. In spring 2017, a measles outbreak occurred in Minnesota. As of June 16, 78 cases of measles had been confirmed in the state, 71 were unvaccinated and 65 were Somali-Americans. The outbreak
Over 1,000 quarantined in measles scare at LA universities. [SEP] Measles vaccine // cases of measles reported in the U.S. in 2005, slightly over half were attributable to one unvaccinated individual who acquired measles during a visit to Romania. This individual returned to a community with many unvaccinated children. The resulting outbreak infected 34 people, mostly children and virtually all unvaccinated; 9% were hospitalized, and the cost of containing the outbreak was estimated at $167,685. A major epidemic was averted due to high rates of vaccination in the surrounding communities. The vaccine has non specific effects such as preventing respiratory infections, that may be greater than those of measles prevention alone. These benefits
Over 1,000 quarantined in measles scare at LA universities. [SEP] Measles vaccine // and the disease was believed no longer endemic in the United States. In 2014, 667 cases were reported. The benefit of measles vaccination in preventing illness, disability, and death have been well documented. Within the first 20 years of being licensed in the U.S., measles vaccination prevented an estimated 52 million cases of the disease, 17,400 cases of mental retardation, and 5,200 deaths. During 1999–2004, a strategy led by the World Health Organization and UNICEF led to improvements in measles vaccination coverage that averted an estimated 1.4 million measles deaths worldwide. The vaccine for measles has led to the near-complete
U.N. flags need to cut meat to curb land use impact on global warming. [SEP] Allan Savory // in the permanent removal of greenhouse gases out of the Earth's atmosphere to contribute materially in global warming avoidance. Savory advocates using high technology to develop alternative energy sources and to reduce or eliminate future emissions. He supports grass fed beef and vehemently opposes industrial livestock production. He condemns the practice of slash-and-burn cultivation of forests and grasslands, saying that it "leaves the soil bare, releasing carbon, and worse than that, burning one hectare of grassland gives off more, and more damaging, pollutants than 6,000 cars. And we are burning in Africa, every single year, more than one billion hectares
U.N. flags need to cut meat to curb land use impact on global warming. [SEP] Chatham House // why reducing global meat consumption will be critical to keeping global warming below the ‘danger level’ of two degrees Celsius, "Heat, Light and Power for Refugees: Saving Lives, Reducing Costs" examined the reasons why energy provision to displaced people undermines the fundamental humanitarian aims of assistance, and "Towards a New Global Business Model for Antibiotics: Delinking Revenues from Sales" argued for revenues for pharmaceutical companies to be delinked from sales of antibiotics to avoid their over-use and avert a public health crisis. Chatham House published the research paper "Livestock – Climate Change’s Forgotten Sector: Global Public Opinion on Meat and
U.N. flags need to cut meat to curb land use impact on global warming. [SEP] Environmental impact of meat production // nitrogen fertilizers and adopting suitable manure management practices. Mitigation strategies for reducing carbon dioxide emissions in the livestock sector include adopting more efficient production practices to reduce agricultural pressure for deforestation (notably in Latin America), reducing fossil fuel consumption, and increasing carbon sequestration in soils. Australian scientists discovered that adding the seaweed Asparagopsis taxiformis to the cattle's diet can reduce methane by up to 99%, and reported a 3% seaweed diet resulted in an 80% reduction in methane. In New Zealand, nearly half of [anthropogenic] greenhouse gas emission is associated with agriculture, which plays a major role in the nation's
U.N. flags need to cut meat to curb land use impact on global warming. [SEP] Carnage (2017 film) // animals. The UN urges people to cut down on meat, due to climate change. This is ignored, and the UK faces floods. Lindsay Graber, a victim of these, explains climate change due to meat on TV. Veganism is promoted by TV presenters, but it is ignored, and in 2021 the UK faces a Super Swine Flu, killing many. Intensive farming is banned to prevent a re-occurrence, but this hikes up costs of meat, and many people are confused over what to eat. In 2023, this Era of Confusion is broken by a new celebrity chef Freddy Jayashankar, who re-introduces a
U.N. flags need to cut meat to curb land use impact on global warming. [SEP] Individual and political action on climate change // effects of meat production, which the United Nations' Food and Agriculture Organization has established to represent nearly one-fifth of global greenhouse gas emissions. The town of Totnes in Devon through its "Transition Town Totnes" Project has adopted an Energy Descent Plan, as a response in answer to the twin problems of greenhouse gas emissions and peak oil. As a result of a series of large, well attended public gatherings with key experts from around the world, and the organisation of a number of special interest groups, the community has come together with lecturers and trainers shared with Schumacher College, through
U.N. flags need to cut meat to curb land use impact on global warming. [SEP] Environmental impact of meat production // Organization (FAO) of the United Nations, states that "the livestock sector is a major stressor on many ecosystems and on the planet as a whole. Globally it is one of the largest sources of greenhouse gases (GHG) and one of the leading causal factors in the loss of biodiversity, while in developed and emerging countries it is perhaps the leading source of water pollution." Removing all US agricultural animals would reduce US greenhouse gas emissions by 2.6%. (In this and much other FAO usage, but not always elsewhere, poultry are included as "livestock".) A 2017 study published in the journal
U.N. flags need to cut meat to curb land use impact on global warming. [SEP] Climate change mitigation // vegans. The widespread adoption of a vegetarian diet could cut food-related greenhouse gas emissions by 63% by 2050. China introduced new dietary guidelines in 2016 which aim to cut meat consumption by 50% and thereby reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 1billion tonnes by 2030. A 2016 study concluded that taxes on meat and milk could simultaneously result in reduced greenhouse gas emissions and healthier diets. The study analyzed surcharges of 40% on beef and 20% on milk and suggests that an optimum plan would reduce emissions by 1billion tonnes per year. Efficient energy use, sometimes simply called "energy efficiency", is
U.N. flags need to cut meat to curb land use impact on global warming. [SEP] Traffic (conservation programme) // 2015 (Traffic news story here, resolution here). Drawing global attention to the issue, the resolution tasks the UN secretary general with presenting an annual report on global wildlife crime and countries’ implementation of the resolution, as well as recommendations. Traffic was one of the first organisations to draw attention to the unsustainable use of bushmeat or wildmeat in its 2000 study Food For Thought: the utilization of wild meat in eastern and southern Africa. Its findings, including the fact that the previously taboo species zebra was being increasingly harvested, led to widespread publicity including an IUCN report on the subject.
U.N. flags need to cut meat to curb land use impact on global warming. [SEP] Liberation BC // Vancouver's "Greenest City Action Team" acknowledge the impact that meat consumption has upon the environment, and asked that they recommend that citizens reduce their consumption of animal products. The letter was also signed by the Vancouver Humane Society, Humane Society International Canada, Earthsave Canada, and the Lifeforce Foundation. In 2009, the group shifted its focus to public outreach and to building a stronger animal rights community in Vancouver. It began the annual Cow Ribbon Campaign for Mother's Day. The public is encouraged to purchase Holstein-patterned ribbons from the website and wear them to start conversations about the conditions of mother
U.N. flags need to cut meat to curb land use impact on global warming. [SEP] Phil Radford // most flagrant emitters of CO2, to begin providing clean energy to win their business." In 2014, deforestation in Indonesia, which accounts for .1% of the world's surface, caused 4% of global warming pollution. One of the major drivers of deforestation was clearing the forest to grow palm oil plantations. Under Radford, the Greenpeace USA team persuaded Procter & Gamble, Colgate Palmolive, Mondelez, and other major companies to demand sustainably grown palm oil. Under Radford, Greenpeace ran a campaign targeting supermarket chains – which sell 50% of all seafood in the U.S. – to convince them to stop selling threatened fish,
Indiana University cleaning mold inside residence quadrangle. [SEP] Indiana University – Purdue University Fort Wayne // on campus. Beginning with fall semester 2004, the university introduced student dormitories on the Waterfield Campus. Phase II of the student housing initiative continued with two more buildings in August 2007, with total student housing occupancy approaching nearly 750 residents. Phase III of the project, which opened in August 2010, added 448 beds divided between four new residence buildings, bringing total occupancy to more than 1,200 students. Another student community center, The Clubhouse, a larger version of the existing Cole Commons, and a maintenance facility were also added. "The Communicator" was IPFW’s student newspaper. College Access Television was operated by
Indiana University cleaning mold inside residence quadrangle. [SEP] Indiana University Southeast // Collegiate Nursing Education. Additionally, the Biochemistry track is the Chemistry Program is accredited by the American Chemical Society. Indiana University Southeast broke ground on its residence halls on June 27, 2007. With the addition of residence halls, IU Southeast is the first full-service public institution in the south-central sector of the state. The five lodge-style residence halls are the first on-campus housing at IU Southeast. The lodges feature one, two, and four bedroom units with each bedroom opening to a central living room. The buildings opened for the fall 2008 semester and now house more than 400 students. The $20.7
Indiana University cleaning mold inside residence quadrangle. [SEP] Indiana University – Purdue University Indianapolis // Townhomes at IUPUI and the newest addition, North Residence Hall. Ball Hall, University Tower, Riverwalk Apartments and North Hall offer Residential Based Learning Communities on designated floors, areas or buildings where students request to live near others that share an interest in a particular social cause or academic area. There are 12 different themes including International House, Living Your Freshman Experience, Women in Science, Purdue House and others. IUPUI also offers a dining hall in the heart of campus inside of University Tower. Tower Dining is open to students, faculty, staff and the general public and seats 470 simultaneously. Breakfast,
Indiana University cleaning mold inside residence quadrangle. [SEP] Lakeshore Area Regional Recovery of Indiana // September 2008 flood to welcome Carollyn Lewis of South Haven home. Lewis suffered extensive damage to her home from the flood, and her crawl space filled with water and came up into the main floor enough to destroy the floor from underneath. Dangerous black mold had crept all the way to the second story inside the walls and was making her ill. During this time period, Lewis lost her job. When all seemed lost, she was approved for home restoration assistance from LARRI. Lewis moved out of her home in June so work could begin, and the entire downstairs and
Indiana University cleaning mold inside residence quadrangle. [SEP] Indoor mold // levels have been enumerated as I, II, III, and IV: After remediation, the premises should be reevaluated to ensure success. According to the EPA, residential mold may be prevented and controlled by cleaning and repairing roof gutters, to prevent moisture seepage into the home; keeping air-conditioning drip pans clean and drainage lines clear; monitoring indoor humidity; drying areas of moisture or condensation and removing their sources; treating exposed structural wood or wood framing with an EPA-approved fungicidal encapsulation coating after pre-cleaning (particularly homes with a crawl space, unfinished basement or a poorly-ventilated; attic). Indoor mold Mold (American English) or mould
Indiana University cleaning mold inside residence quadrangle. [SEP] Indoor mold // should be surveyed for odors indicating mold or bacterial growth, moisture sources, such as stagnant water or leaking pipes, and water-damaged building materials. This can include moving furniture, lifting (or removing) carpets, checking behind wallpaper or paneling, checking ventilation ductwork and exposing wall cavities. Efforts typically focus on areas where there are signs of liquid moisture or water vapor (humidity), or where moisture problems are suspected. Often, quick decisions about the immediate safety and health of the environment can be made by these observations before sampling is even needed. The United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) does not generally recommend
Indiana University cleaning mold inside residence quadrangle. [SEP] Indiana University South Bend // with pollen in an East African community is supported by a National Science Foundation grant. Geologist Henry Scott leads a team of scientists responsible for discoveries about the formation of methane gas. Archaeological anthropologist and social informatics professor Joshua J. Wells helps lead the Digital Index of North American Archaeology project with assistance from multiple National Science Foundation awards as well as from the federal Institute for Museum and Library Services. Indiana University South Bend Indiana University South Bend (IU South Bend) is a public university in South Bend, Indiana. It is the third largest campus of Indiana University. Indiana
Indiana University cleaning mold inside residence quadrangle. [SEP] Agnes E. Wells // housing, as well as being credited with establishing the dormitory system at the school. In 1924, she became a member of the Indiana Academy of Science, and that year also began to teach astronomy courses. She retired as the dean of women in 1938, and she taught mathematics and astronomy at the university from that point until 1944. The Agnes E. Wells quadrangle at Indiana University comprises four buildings: Morrison Hall, Sycamore Hall, Memorial Hall, and Goodbody Hall, all built between 1925 and 1940. For the American Association of University Women, she established a fellowship fund in the amount of
Indiana University cleaning mold inside residence quadrangle. [SEP] Indiana University Bloomington // historic district known as The Old Crescent. It was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1980. They are the Collegiate Gothic style Student Service Building (1906–1908); Indiana University Museum (1905); Richardsonian Romanesque style Maxwell Building (1890, 1907–1908); Owen Hall (1885); Wylie Hall (1885); Kirkwood Hall (1895); Lindley Hall (1903); Gothic Revival style Rose Well House (1908); and Kirkwood Observatory (1900). The Sample Gates serve as the entryway to Indiana University's campus and The Old Crescent. It is positioned between Franklin Hall and Bryan Hall. After several failed attempts to create an arched entrance to campus, in 1987,
Indiana University cleaning mold inside residence quadrangle. [SEP] Purdue University // including Cary Quadrangle, Earhart Hall, First Street Towers, Harrison Hall, Hawkins Hall, Hillenbrand Hall, Hilltop Apartments, Honors College and Residences, McCutcheon Hall, Owen Hall, Purdue Village, Shreve Hall, Tarkington Hall, Third Street Suites, Wiley Hall, and the 5 Windsor Halls: Duhme, Shealy, Warren, Wood, and Vawter. Of the residence halls, Cary and Tarkington are male-only while Windsor and Meredith Hall are female-only; the remainder are coed. There are 12 cooperative houses at Purdue (5 men's houses and 7 women's houses). The men's houses include Circle Pines, Fairway, Marwood, Chauncey, and Gemini. The women's houses include Ann Tweedale, Glenwood, Twin Pines,
'Stink flirting' is a thing - just ask a ring-tailed lemur. [SEP] Ring-tailed lemur // predator mobbing. Some calls have variants and undergo transitions between variants, such as an infant "whit" (distress call) transitioning from one variant to another (). The most commonly heard vocalizations are the moan () (low-to-moderate arousal, group cohesion), early-high wail () (moderate-to-high arousal, group cohesion), and clicks () ("location marker" to draw attention). The ring-tailed lemur is polygynandrous, although the dominant male in the troop typically breeds with more females than other males. Fighting is most common during the breeding season. A receptive female may initiate mating by presenting her backside, lifting her tail and looking at the desired male
'Stink flirting' is a thing - just ask a ring-tailed lemur. [SEP] Lemur // for communication between animals that rarely encounter each other. Small, nocturnal lemurs mark their territories with urine, while the larger, diurnal species use scent glands located on various parts of their anatomy. The ring-tailed lemur engages in "stink fights" by rubbing its tail across scent glands on its wrists, and then flicking its tail at other male opponents. Some lemurs defecate in specific areas, otherwise known as latrine behavior. Although many animals exhibit this behavior, it is a rare trait among primates. Latrine behavior can represent territorial marking and aid in interspecies signaling. Compared to other mammals, primates in general
'Stink flirting' is a thing - just ask a ring-tailed lemur. [SEP] Self-anointing in animals // a role in the context of social communication, possibly for signalling of social status or to increase sexual attractiveness. Male ring-tailed lemurs have scent glands on their wrists, chests, and in the genital area. During encounters with rival males they may perform ritualised aggression by having a "stink fight". The males anoint their tails by rubbing the ends of their tails on the inside of their wrists and on their chests. They then arch their tails over their bodies and wave them at their opponent. The male toward which this is directed either responds with a display of his own,
'Stink flirting' is a thing - just ask a ring-tailed lemur. [SEP] Ring-tailed lemur // impregnating their tails with secretions from the antebrachial and brachial glands and waving the scented tail at male rivals. Ring-tailed lemurs have also been shown to mark using urine. Behaviorally, there is a difference between regular urination, where the tail is slightly raised and a stream of urine is produced, and the urine marking behavior, where the tail is held up in display and only a few drops of urine are used. The urine-marking behavior is typically used by females to mark territory, and has been observed primarily at the edges of the troop's territory and in areas where other
'Stink flirting' is a thing - just ask a ring-tailed lemur. [SEP] Ring-tailed lemur // ranges using their anogenital scent glands. The ring-tailed lemur will perform a handstand to mark vertical surfaces, grasping the highest point with its feet while it applies its scent. Use of scent marking varies by age, sex and social status. Male lemurs use their antebrachial and brachial glands to demarcate territories and maintain intragroup dominance hierarchies. The thorny spur that overlays the antebrachial gland on each wrist is scraped against tree trunks to create grooves anointed with their scent. This is known as "spur-marking". In displays of aggression, males engage in a social display behaviour called "stink fighting", which involves
'Stink flirting' is a thing - just ask a ring-tailed lemur. [SEP] Ring-tailed lemur // tensions are high and competition for mates is intense. Other aggressive behaviours include a "threat-stare", used to intimidate or start a fight, and a submissive gesture known as "pulled-back lips". Border disputes with rival troops occur occasionally and it is the dominant female's responsibility to defend the troop's home range. Agonistic encounters include staring, lunging approaches and occasional physical aggression, and conclude with troop members retreating toward the center of the home range. Olfactory communication is critically important for strepsirrhines like the ring-tailed lemur. Males and females scent mark both vertical and horizontal surfaces at the overlaps in their home
'Stink flirting' is a thing - just ask a ring-tailed lemur. [SEP] Ring-tailed lemur // troops may frequent. The urine marking behavior also is most frequent during the mating season, and may play a role in reproductive communication between groups. The ring-tailed lemur is one of the most vocal primates and has a complex array of distinct vocalizations used to maintain group cohesion during foraging and alert group members to the presence of a predator. Calls range from simple to complex. An example of a simple call is the purr (), which expresses contentment. A complex call is the sequence of clicks, close-mouth click series (CMCS), open-mouth click series (OMCS) and yaps () used during
'Stink flirting' is a thing - just ask a ring-tailed lemur. [SEP] Lemur // upper arms near the axilla. Male ring-tailed lemurs also have scent glands on the inside of their forearms, adjacent to a thorn-like spur, which they use to gouge, and simultaneously, scent-mark tree branches. They will also wipe their tails between their forearms and then engage in "stink fights" by waving their tail at their opponents. Lemurs (and strepsirrhines in general) are considered to be less visually oriented than the higher primates, since they rely so heavily on their sense of smell and pheromone detection. The fovea on the retina; which yields higher visual acuity, is not well-developed. The postorbital septum
'Stink flirting' is a thing - just ask a ring-tailed lemur. [SEP] Ruffed lemur // lemurs are known for their loud, raucous calls that are answered by neighboring communities and subgroups within the same community. During agonistic encounters between communities, chasing, scent-marking, calling, and occasional physical contact can be seen. Other social behaviors appear to vary between wild and captive ruffed lemurs, as illustrated by the following table. Some affiliative behaviors are seasonal or gender-specific, such as the male squeal approach and anogenital inspections performed during the mating season. Another example is the female greeting behavior, where two females will use their anogenital scent glands to mark each other's backs, jump over one another, writhe
'Stink flirting' is a thing - just ask a ring-tailed lemur. [SEP] Territory (animal) // post that her breeding partner has just urinated on, although during the mating season, the female may first urinate on the ground. All other females in the pack, and also young wolves and low-ranking male wolves, urinate while squatting. Males and female ring-tailed lemurs ("Lemur catta") scent-mark both vertical and horizontal surfaces at the overlaps in their home ranges using their anogenital scent glands. To do this, they perform a handstand to mark vertical surfaces, grasping the highest point with their feet while applying the scent. In the Eastern carpenter bee, "Xylocopa virginica", both sexes have glands that evolved for
Prospective new gang members are being initiated by killing the drivers of cars who flash their headlights at them. [SEP] Headlight flashing // his headlamps in response to the unlit car becomes the target; to complete the initiation, the prospective gang member must hunt down and shoot, kill, assault, or rape the target. The story was widely spread by many government organizations, including the New Mexico State Police. This rumor has been proven an urban legend. The story originated in Montana in the early 1980s, where it was rumored that the Hells Angels bike gang was initiating recruits in this way. By 1984, the story had spread to Eugene, Oregon, where it had morphed into a story of Latino and black gangs targeting
Prospective new gang members are being initiated by killing the drivers of cars who flash their headlights at them. [SEP] Urban legend // organizations, school officials and even police departments have issued warnings concerning the latest threat. According to the "Lights Out" rumor, street-gang members would drive without headlights until a compassionate motorist responded with the traditional flashing of headlights, whereupon a prospective new gang-member would have to murder the citizen as a requirement of initiation. A fax received at the Nassau County, Florida fire department was forwarded to police, and from there to all city departments. Even the Minister of Defence for Canada was taken in by the same legend; he forwarded an urgent security warning to all Ontario Members of Parliament.
Prospective new gang members are being initiated by killing the drivers of cars who flash their headlights at them. [SEP] GTA gang // about one homicide and one homicide attempt, involving victims who were completely unknown to the gang; there was no robbery attempted. The crime was committed on the night of 11–12 June 2013 in a car parked in a forest/park near Mendeleevo settlement, Moscow region. Ulugmuradov gave a confession during the investigation that the leader of the gang forced him to kill absolutely unknown persons for training purposes. The leader said that the revolution would soon start in Uzbekistan, and that gang members, as future militants, should prove their commitment and dedication to the gang and to the underground by killing
Prospective new gang members are being initiated by killing the drivers of cars who flash their headlights at them. [SEP] Infighting in the Gulf Cartel // an attempt to disclose the information to the dealers, the gang members kidnapped them, and that was when two country sheriffs received an emergency call a possible kidnapping. The policemen then spotted the gang member's Ford F-150 pickup truck and ordered the drivers to stop. While one of the policemen was speaking to the driver, the other approached the passenger window and was shot with a 9 mm gun. The policeman managed to survive because he was wearing a bullet vest. One of the gang members, however, was killed; the other was shot in the head and remained in critical
Prospective new gang members are being initiated by killing the drivers of cars who flash their headlights at them. [SEP] Killing of Adrian Donohoe // road - drove across the road and blocked the entrance. Four members of the gang were hiding behind a wall surrounding the car park, all wearing balaclavas, while a fifth was driving the car. Two gang members approached the detectives' car from the rear, and as Donohoe opened his door and stepped out to investigate why the car had blocked the entrance, he was instantly shot at close range in the back of the head with a long barrelled shotgun by a masked raider. A single shot was fired. It was dark, and before Ryan could realise what was taking
Prospective new gang members are being initiated by killing the drivers of cars who flash their headlights at them. [SEP] Sala gang // steal his car, but he had failed to take the money of the man before he was thrown into the water. He had proved to himself that he had the ability to kill another man and the death threat in the contract signed by the members was now much more of a realistic threat. The body of Sven Eriksson was discovered and identified the next day, as well as his bloodstained car. The police got a good idea of how the murder had been committed but never got close to finding the murderers. A robbery — the motive for acquiring
Prospective new gang members are being initiated by killing the drivers of cars who flash their headlights at them. [SEP] Shootout // being fired upon. The suspects attempted to escape in their own vehicle. During this attempt, the driver of the suspects was killed by a stray police shot. The suspects then hijacked a nearby vehicle and became involved in a prolonged chase, in which the suspects shot at police and disabled and destroyed 33 police vehicles (as well as civilian cars) with explosives thrown from the back of a truck. The suspects also disabled a police helicopter by shooting at it. Later, the suspects lay in wait for police as they chased them, and ambushed them, resulting in the death of
Prospective new gang members are being initiated by killing the drivers of cars who flash their headlights at them. [SEP] Nighttime Killers // The two men discussed becoming contract killers, thinking that this would be a perfect job for them. They also discussed killing some of their friends for more immediate financial gain. However they did not know how to look for contract work, and were unsure they'd be able to kill a friend on the first try, so they decided to practice on the homeless. They reportedly killed at least five before risking to attack a more dangerous target. They eventually settled on attacking car owners; owning a personal vehicle was a considerable luxury and a sign of wealth in the former
Prospective new gang members are being initiated by killing the drivers of cars who flash their headlights at them. [SEP] Jay Dobyns // To earn his "patch" (full membership into the gang) and further establish his credibility as a potential member ("Prospect") with the club's leadership, Dobyns staged the fake "murder" of a member of the rival Mongols Motorcycle Club. A law enforcement officer posing as the Mongols biker was splattered with lamb blood and brains, photographed and videotaped lying in a shallow grave. Dobyns had a bloodstained Mongols' "cut" (leather biker vest with club patches) mailed to the Hells Angels from somewhere in Mexico, and provided a videotape and pictures of the "killing". According to Dobyns and ATF, the Hells Angels leadership
Prospective new gang members are being initiated by killing the drivers of cars who flash their headlights at them. [SEP] The Numbers Gang // 2003. When a new prisoner is assigned a cell he will be introduced to the person in charge of that cell known as the "cell cleaner". The cell cleaner will welcome the new prisoner to the cell, and will either leave him alone for the evening, or will demand sex. The new prisoners will be observed by a senior member of the gang known as "die glas" (the binoculars). The glas' job is to conduct gang business in "die bos" (the bush), the parts of the prison where the 28s are not active. The glas will then confront a potential
Sides spar over water permit for refinery near national park. [SEP] Kayak Point County Park // refinery in 1967, requesting that the county government issue permits to allow for the refinery's construction and operation as an exception to the area's rural residential zoning. Atlantic Richfield selected Kayak Point due to its protected deep water location, road access, available workforce, and proximity to Canada, where crude oil would be delivered via pipeline. The $100 million (equivalent to $ in dollars) refinery would employ 400 workers and create an additional 800 jobs in supporting industries. The plans angered local residents, who organized the Save Port Susan Committee and testified against the zoning exception during a public hearing on
Sides spar over water permit for refinery near national park. [SEP] Occidental refinery Canvey Island // an area of open land between the Occidental refinery and South Benfleet. 1972 application On 21 December 1971 URL reapplied to the Department of Trade and Industry for an IDC for a refinery on a new site. Having been granted an IDC, in 1972 URL applied for permission to build a four million tonnes/year oil refinery on a 314 acre (127 ha) site south of the AGIP site and north of the ORL site. The DoE inspector, again K.M. Sargeant, said there were no insuperable objections to the application on pollution or navigational grounds, and that highway objections could be
Sides spar over water permit for refinery near national park. [SEP] CSR Refinery, New Farm // along the river side of the property. It sits above a concrete and stone retaining wall and runs the entire length of the property apart from a small section between the canteen building and the Hollins site. It adjoins a similar fence which is located in front of the private residence, Amity. Many mature and semi-mature trees are located throughout the site, softening the effect of the industrial site. The vegetation is particularly noticeable from the eastern side of the river, from where it obscures the buildings on each end of the site. Other landscape elements on the site include
Sides spar over water permit for refinery near national park. [SEP] Occidental refinery Canvey Island // venture because they had been refused permission to build a refinery in Glasgow, Scotland. Canvey Island Urban District Council and Essex County Council opposed the application and a public inquiry was held in March – April 1971. The Department of the Environment (DoE) inspector, K.M. Sargeant MA FRICS, concluded that permitting the refinery would be a ‘serious environmental mistake’, but also said that a similar proposal would not necessarily be ruled out if a site could be found to which there were not ‘such strong amenity objections’. The inspector recommended refusal of the application. Meanwhile, Occidental Refineries Limited, initially in
Sides spar over water permit for refinery near national park. [SEP] Manasquan Reservoir // It is approximately 8 feet wide and intended for casual walking. This trail leads away from the park and the hiker must use the same pathway to return to the Perimeter Trail. It is off mile 4.5 on the Perimeter Trail and hikers on the Perimeter Trail must cross Old Tavern Road to reach it. The environmental center is reachable by car and has its own parking lot. It contains displays of the fauna and fishery of the area, related instructional materials, and overlook windows to the surrounding land area and lake. There are restroom facilities at the center, but
Sides spar over water permit for refinery near national park. [SEP] Oil refinery // fractions (i.e., the overhead naphtha, the sidecuts and the bottom residue) are sent to intermediate storage tanks before being processed further. A party searching for a site to construct a refinery or a chemical plant needs to consider the following issues: Refineries which use a large amount of steam and cooling water need to have an abundant source of water. Oil refineries therefore are often located nearby navigable rivers or on a sea shore, nearby a port. Such location also gives access to transportation by river or by sea. The advantages of transporting crude oil by pipeline are evident, and
Sides spar over water permit for refinery near national park. [SEP] Mandan Refinery // patch, a major expansion project was undertaken in 2012 to increase the processing capacity to 68,000 BPD. A wet scrubber was installed on the CO-fired crude furnace to reduce sulfur dioxide emissions further and eliminate stack particulates in 2015. The expansion in 2017 brings the current nameplate processing capacity at the site to almost 74,000 barrels per day. The prestigious National Blue Heron Environmental Achievement Award, sponsored by the National Wildlife Federation and supported by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service in its North American Waterfowl Management Plan, recognizes outstanding contributions toward the conservation of waterfowl habitat. The Mandan Refinery
Sides spar over water permit for refinery near national park. [SEP] Cliffe, Kent // an un-spoilt coastal area and the inadequacy of local roads. The inspector was not satisfied that the national interest justified the approval and recommended refusal. However, the Secretary of State, by then Geoffrey Rippon, considered that ‘it is in the national interest for additional refinery capacity to be made available to meet expected requirements in south-east England’. One condition was there should only be a single chimney designed to discharge flue gases at a minimum height of 120 metres. Departmental draft files indicate that the Secretary of State granted outline planning permission in November 1973. On 15 January 1974 Burmah
Sides spar over water permit for refinery near national park. [SEP] Continental Oil Company (Cheyenne, Wyoming) // built over a shallow basement, expressed on the facade with sandstone masonry. The east side is the most detailed elevation with a corbeled, dentiled cornice that extends around to the north side. A brick addition on the south side was used as an oil pump house. The west side features a wood loading dock. The interior is mostly open space with a small office area. Building 2 is a by one-story brick garage. Building 3 is a 1956 metal building. The site originally had seven large oil tanks, which have been removed. Leakage from the tanks contaminated the site and
Sides spar over water permit for refinery near national park. [SEP] Valero Energy // on the Carquinez Strait, a tributary of the San Francisco Bay. The Wilmington Refinery is located south from downtown Los Angeles. Valero's Wilmington (CA), Benicia (CA), and Port Arthur (TX) refineries are known to carry and process crude oil from the Amazon region of South America, a large concern for environmentalists trying to protect the Amazon rainforest. In 2015, Wilmington and Benicia processed about 13,000 and 7,200 barrels of Amazonian crude oil per day, respectively. For many years, Valero Energy Corp. has been awarded contracts worth several hundred millions of dollars by the United States Defense Logistics Agency Energy (dla
U.N. says Saudi deportations of Ethiopian migrants risks spreading coronavirus. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // MERS had infected at least 60 people with cases reported in Jordan, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates (UAE), Tunisia, Germany, the United Kingdom (UK), France and Italy, with a death toll of 38. Saudi officials expressed great concern that millions of Muslims from around the world would potentially be exposed to the virus during the autumn Hajj, or pilgrimage to Mecca. In May 2014, the WHO said it was monitoring the situation as global cases of MERS appeared to be on the rise, but said the situation did not yet constitute a health emergency. On 3 June 2014,
U.N. says Saudi deportations of Ethiopian migrants risks spreading coronavirus. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // Saudi Arabia. In the latest cluster of infections, 15 cases had been confirmed, and nine of those patients had died. Ten of the 22 people who died and 22 of 44 cases reported were in Saudi Arabia. An unconfirmed case in another Saudi citizen, for which no clinical information was available, was also reported around this time. On 22 September 2012, the Saudi Ministry of Health (MOH) announced that the two cases involving Saudi citizens, caused by what they termed a "rare pattern of coronavirus," had both proven fatal. Two of the Saudi Arabia cases were from the same family
U.N. says Saudi deportations of Ethiopian migrants risks spreading coronavirus. [SEP] Coronavirus // 2013, a case of contamination from human to human in France was confirmed by the French Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. In addition, cases of person-to-person transmission have been reported by the Ministry of Health in Tunisia. Two confirmed cases seem to have caught the disease from their late father, who became ill after a visit to Qatar and Saudi Arabia. By Oct. 30 2013, there were 124 cases and 52 deaths in Saudi Arabia. After the Dutch Erasmus Medical Centre sequenced the virus, the virus was given a new name, Human Corona Virus-Erasmus Medical Centre (HCoV-EMC). The final
U.N. says Saudi deportations of Ethiopian migrants risks spreading coronavirus. [SEP] Middle East respiratory syndrome // care worker who had been in Saudi Arabia a week earlier, and was reported to be in good condition. A second patient who also traveled from Saudi Arabia was reported in Orlando, Florida on 12 May 2014. On 14 May 2014, officials in the Netherlands reported the first case has appeared. On Saturday, 17 May 2014, a man from Illinois who was a business associate of the first U.S. case (he had met and shook hands with the Indiana health care worker) tested positive for the MERS coronavirus, but has not, as of yet, displayed symptoms (others are probably also,
U.N. says Saudi deportations of Ethiopian migrants risks spreading coronavirus. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // in Saudi Arabia to 1,115 cases and 480 fatalities as of 18 August 2015. Since May, most of the cases have occurred at the King Abdulaziz Medical City, a large national guard hospital. Due to fears of the MERS virus, attendance in the hajj in 2013 was lower than the previous year. The Saudi government asked "elderly and chronically ill Muslims to avoid the hajj this year" and restricted the number of people allowed "to perform the pilgrimage". Saudi Health Minister Abdullah Al-Rabia said "that authorities had so far detected no cases among the pilgrims" of MERS. However, the Spanish
U.N. says Saudi deportations of Ethiopian migrants risks spreading coronavirus. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // government, in November 2013, reported a woman in Spain, who had recently traveled to Saudi Arabia for the Islamic pilgrimage, contracted the disease. On 14 April 2014, one Filipino paramedic died in the United Arab Emirates, with six other reported to be infected with the virus. On 17 April, the UAE Ministry of Health reported another fatality and four additional cases, including the Filipino medical worker who travelled to the Philippines on 16 April. On 21 April 2014, the Health Ministry of UAE reported an additional 9 cases. In April 2012, six hospital workers were diagnosed with acute respiratory failure
U.N. says Saudi deportations of Ethiopian migrants risks spreading coronavirus. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // and from that family at least one additional person presented similar symptoms but tested negative for the novel coronavirus. On 21 February 2013, WHO stated that there had been 13 laboratory-confirmed cases, 6 cases (4 fatal) from Saudi Arabia, 2 cases (both fatal) from Jordan, 2 cases from Qatar, and 3 from the UK. In March 2013, the Saudi Arabia Ministry of Health reported the death of a 39-year-old man, the 15th case and 9th death reported to WHO. On 2 May 2013, the Saudi Ministry of Health announced five people died and two other people were in critical condition
U.N. says Saudi deportations of Ethiopian migrants risks spreading coronavirus. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // deaths." On 31 October 2013, the WHO announced that three patients in Saudi Arabia died of MERS. The patients were one woman and two men and "all had underlying medical conditions but all reported having had no contact with animals before falling ill". Early of 23 April 2014, 11 new cases including a first case for Mecca were reported by the Health Ministry. An additional 13 cases were reported on the same day. With the additional reported cases, there are now a total of 285 cases with 83 deaths in the Kingdom. A hospital-related outbreak in Riyadh brought the total
U.N. says Saudi deportations of Ethiopian migrants risks spreading coronavirus. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // published in "The New England Journal of Medicine" indicated that camel to human transmission of the virus was possible. In November 2013, a man became ill with MERS after tending to a sick camel. DNA samples taken from the man, who eventually died of the virus, and the sick animal were virtually identical providing very strong evidence the man had got the virus from the camel. On 20 May 2013, the novel coronavirus reached Tunisia killing one man and infecting two of his relatives. Tunisia was the eighth country to be affected by MERS-CoV after Jordan, Saudi Arabia, Qatar, the
U.N. says Saudi deportations of Ethiopian migrants risks spreading coronavirus. [SEP] Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus // camel strains are intermixed suggesting multiple transmission events. The first confirmed case was reported in Saudi Arabia in 2012. Egyptian virologist Dr. Ali Mohamed Zaki isolated and identified a previously unknown coronavirus from the man's lungs. Dr. Zaki then posted his findings on 24 September 2012 on ProMED-mail. The isolated cells showed cytopathic effects (CPE), in the form of rounding and syncytia formation. A second case was found in September 2012, a 49-year-old male living in Qatar presented with similar flu symptoms, and a sequence of the virus was nearly identical to that of the first case. In November 2012,
U.S. bishop may have exposed Catholics to hepatitis during Communion. [SEP] Catholic Church and politics in the United States // of pro-choice politicians receiving communion. Such cases have typically involved a bishop threatening to deny a Catholic politician communion, though in some cases excommunication has been suggested and in others a bishop has instructed a politician not to take communion. The first such case was that of Lucy Killea, though such threats have subsequently been made in national elections. In 2004, Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger, then-prefect of the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith, instructed American bishops in a confidential memorandum that Communion must be denied to Catholic politicians who support legal abortion. However, Cardinals O'Malley, Egan, McCarrick, Wuerl, Mahoney
U.S. bishop may have exposed Catholics to hepatitis during Communion. [SEP] Joseph Strickland // While attending meetings in September 2012 for new Bishops in Rome, Strickland and Bishop John T. Folda of Fargo contracted Hepatitis A from contaminated food served to them. Joseph Strickland Joseph Edward Strickland (born October 31, 1958) is an American prelate of the Catholic Church. Since his consecration on November 28, 2012, he has been the Bishop of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Tyler. On the announcement of his appointment, Vatican Radio called Strickland "one of North America’s new generation of blogging priests" for his Running Priest Blog. Strickland succeeds Álvaro Corrada del Río, SJ, who was appointed Bishop of
U.S. bishop may have exposed Catholics to hepatitis during Communion. [SEP] Excommunication of Catholic politicians who support abortion // Communion, an obligation stated on several occasions. The first instance of a pro-choice politician being censured via denial of communion was in 1989. During a special election for the California Senate, pro-choice Catholic Lucy Killea was barred from communion by Leo Thomas Maher, the bishop of San Diego. She received communion in Sacramento with the consent of Bishop Francis Quinn. The incident brought publicity to Killea's candidacy and gained her the voters' sympathy, helping her to win the election. In 1984, Cardinal John Joseph O'Connor, then archbishop of New York, considered excommunicating New York Governor Mario Cuomo. He also condemned
U.S. bishop may have exposed Catholics to hepatitis during Communion. [SEP] Open communion // Roger, a Reformed pastor and founder of the Taizé Community, several times; in addition Cardinal Ratzinger (later Pope Benedict XVI) also gave Brother Roger the Eucharist. Moreover, after Brother Roger's death, at the Mass celebrated for him in France, "communion wafers were given to the faithful indiscriminately, regardless of denomination". The Catholic Church does not allow its own faithful to receive Communion from ministers of another Church, apart from in extreme cases, such as danger of death, and only if it recognizes the validity of the sacraments of that Church. Other conditions are that it be physically or morally impossible
U.S. bishop may have exposed Catholics to hepatitis during Communion. [SEP] Abortion and the Catholic Church in the United States // officials and we uphold the law and we support public positions separate and apart from our Catholic faith." There has been controversy in the United States over whether Catholic politicians who promote legalization of abortion should be denied communion. Most instances of such controversy have involved a bishop threatening to deny a politician communion, although other cases have involved a bishop telling a politician not to seek communion or considering excommunicating the politician. Those bishops who support denying communion, including Raymond Leo Burke, base their position on Canon 915. Because few American bishops are in favor of withholding communion from
U.S. bishop may have exposed Catholics to hepatitis during Communion. [SEP] Anti-Catholicism in literature and media // pay off some of the lawsuits, because the whole tenet of living a Christ-like life has been lost in Catholicism." On "The View", Rosie O'Donnell has regularly joked about communion rituals alongside co-host Joy Behar's drunk priest comments. On 2 October 2006 she compared the Republican Party cover-up of the Mark Foley scandal to the cover-up of child sexual abuse by Catholic Church officials who actively concealed perpetrators by moving them from parish to parish, as detailed in Amy Berg's award-winning film about the abuse within the Catholic Church. O'Donnell said "the most interesting thing about Deliver Us from Evil
U.S. bishop may have exposed Catholics to hepatitis during Communion. [SEP] Joseph Martino // to poor health. He was suffering from "insomnia and crippling physical fatigue." His resignation was accepted by the Pope on August 31, 2009. During the 2008 presidential election, Martino issued a pastoral letter that declared "public officials who are Catholic and who persist in public support for abortion...should not partake in or be admitted to the sacrament of Holy Communion." This was particularly controversial since the Democratic vice presidential candidate, Sen. Joe Biden, is a native of Scranton; the Bishop confirmed that Biden would be refused Communion should he tour the region. In late October, he made an unexpected appearance
U.S. bishop may have exposed Catholics to hepatitis during Communion. [SEP] Excommunication of Catholic politicians who support abortion // seek the sacrament. In May 2008, Kansas City Archbishop Joseph Naumann said that Kathleen Sebelius should stop receiving communion because of her support for abortion rights, and that she should not again take it unless she publicly stated that she opposed abortion rights. After Joe Biden was nominated as a vice presidential candidate in the 2008 presidential election, Bishop Joseph Francis Martino of Biden's hometown of Scranton, Pennsylvania, said Biden would be refused communion in that diocese because of his support for abortion. Biden was not refused communion in his then-parish of Wilmington, Delaware. In Europe, Catholic bishops have less
U.S. bishop may have exposed Catholics to hepatitis during Communion. [SEP] Catholic Church and politics in the United States // and George have said they would not refuse communion to a person in public life who is pro-choice. Cardinal Burke and Charles Chaput, Archbishop of Philadelphia, have made statements against giving communion but neither has ever refused someone. During the 2004 presidential campaign, a few bishops called for Catholic politicians who voted for Kerry to be barred from receiving Communion. This tactic provoked a negative reaction which caused the Catholic Church to adopt a different approach for the 2008 election. The new message was compiled into a brochure titled "Forming Consciences for Faithful Citizenship," which "emphasized that issues involving 'intrinsically
U.S. bishop may have exposed Catholics to hepatitis during Communion. [SEP] Open communion // and other Protestants) under the jurisdiction of other episcopal conferences, the conditions are more severe. Only in danger of death or if, in the judgment of the local bishop, there is a grave and pressing need, may members of these Churches who cannot approach a minister of their own Church be invited to receive the Eucharist, if they spontaneously ask for it, demonstrate that they have the catholic faith in the Eucharist, and are properly disposed. Catholic priests have sometimes violated these rules, giving Holy Communion to non-Catholics, sometimes unknowingly. Notably, Pope John Paul II gave Holy Communion to Brother
FACT CHECK: Trump pitches drug not approved for coronavirus. [SEP] Novartis // information the pharmaceutical company needed. Later, it became clear, however, that then-CEO Joseph Jimenez and Cohen communicated via email multiple times during 2017, which included ideas to lower drug prices to be discussed with the president. According to the report, several of the ideas appeared later in Trump's drug pricing plan, released in early 2018, in which pharmaceutical companies were protected from reduced revenues. Novartis Novartis International AG is a Swiss multinational pharmaceutical company based in Basel, Switzerland. It is one of the largest pharmaceutical companies by both market capitalization and sales. Novartis manufactures the drugs clozapine (Clozaril), diclofenac (Voltaren),
FACT CHECK: Trump pitches drug not approved for coronavirus. [SEP] First 100 days of Donald Trump's presidency // a product where there's not even a safety problem. So it's crazy. I'm surprised you can't get them to move faster than that." Trump had promised in March 2016, to reform the pharmaceutical industry, including the removal of existing free market barriers to allow imported, dependable, safe, reliable, and cheaper drugs from overseas, bringing more options to American consumers. Following Trump's press conference on January 11, "Fortune" claimed that the largest pharmaceutical companies had lost over $20 billion in 20 minutes. The Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act (2003) expressly prohibited Medicare from negotiating bulk prescription drug prices and
FACT CHECK: Trump pitches drug not approved for coronavirus. [SEP] Coronavirus // of a vaccine against the disease "since [the spike protein] appears to be recognized by the immune system of the host." Following the high-profile publicity of SARS outbreaks, there has been a renewed interest in coronaviruses among virologists. For many years, scientists knew about only two human coronaviruses (HCoV-229E and HCoV-OC43). The discovery of SARS-CoV added a third human coronavirus. By the end of 2004, three independent research labs reported the discovery of a fourth human coronavirus. It has been named NL63, NL, and the New Haven coronavirus by different research groups. The three labs are still arguing over which
FACT CHECK: Trump pitches drug not approved for coronavirus. [SEP] First 100 days of Donald Trump's presidency // have to get the prices way down." In return, he promised to boost the pharmaceutical companies competitiveness by curbing regulations "from 9,000 pages" to "100 pages," and by lowering pharmaceutical companies' tax rates. Trump noted that Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approvals "force pharmaceutical companies to spend years and billions of dollars developing drugs." He promised his nomination for FDA Commissioner would oversee an FDA overhaul. In the listening session with pharmaceutical industry leaders, Trump noted that, "it costs sometimes $2.5 billion on average, actually, to come up with a new product. ...15 years, $2.5 billion to come up with
FACT CHECK: Trump pitches drug not approved for coronavirus. [SEP] Michael A. Santoro // was proposed in early 2017 by the Trump administration, Santoro argued against the ability of companies to market off-label drugs directly to the public, saying, "Drug companies have a very bad history of promoting products for which they haven't been approved. The industry hasn't displayed trustworthiness as far as this goes." During a 2017 CNN investigation of inappropriate use of drugs in nursing homes and the pharmaceutical companies who push these drugs through sales departments, Santoro agreed with the investigation and accused the salespeople of "actually participating in the prescribing decision." In 2013, Santoro and his co-author Ronald J. Strauss
FACT CHECK: Trump pitches drug not approved for coronavirus. [SEP] Political positions of Donald Trump // that it's up to Rick Scott." On August 11, 2016, Trump said that he was in favor of Congress setting aside money to combat the Zika virus. Trump believed that childhood vaccinations were related to autism, a hypothesis which has been repeatedly debunked. The American Academy of Pediatrics and the Autism Speaks patient-advocacy group have "decried Trump's remarks as false and potentially dangerous." In 2010, the Donald J. Trump Foundation donated $10,000 to Generation Rescue, Jenny McCarthy's nonprofit organization that advocates the incorrect view that autism and related disorders are primarily caused by vaccines. Illegal immigration was a signature issue
FACT CHECK: Trump pitches drug not approved for coronavirus. [SEP] Donald L. Trump // Top Doctors for Cancer. He has also received a Lifetime Achievement Award in Medicine/Business from Medaille College, and a Distinguished Alumnus Award from the Johns Hopkins University Alumni Association. Donald L. Trump Donald Lynn "Skip" Trump (born July 31, 1945) is an American oncologist who has been the executive director and Chief executive officer of the Inova Schar Cancer Institute in Falls Church, Virginia since January 2015. He is not related to U.S. president Donald Trump. Trump grew up in Hudson, New York. He received his undergraduate and medical degrees from Johns Hopkins University, where he also completed his fellowship
FACT CHECK: Trump pitches drug not approved for coronavirus. [SEP] Novartis // to Essential Consultants, an entity owned by Michael Cohen, following the 2017 inauguration of Donald Trump. Cohen was paid monthly, with each payment just under $100,000. Novartis claims it paid Cohen to help it understand and influence the new administration's approach to drug pricing and regulation. In July 2018, the US Senate committee report "White House Access for Sale" revealed that Novartis Ag's relationship with Cohen was "longer and more detailed". Novartis initially stated that the relationship ceased a month after entering the USD 1.2 million contract with Cohen's consulting firm since the consultants were not able to provide the
FACT CHECK: Trump pitches drug not approved for coronavirus. [SEP] Immigration policy of Donald Trump // from a class action lawsuit. According to the filings, the drugs made the children listless, dizzy and incapacitated, and in some cases unable to walk. According to a mother, after receiving the drug, her child repeatedly fell, hitting her head and eventually ending up in a wheel chair. Another child stated that she tried to open a window, at which point one of the supervisors hurled her against a door, choked her until she fainted and had a doctor forcibly administer an injection while she was being held down by two guards. A forensic psychiatrist consulted by the "Tribune" compared
FACT CHECK: Trump pitches drug not approved for coronavirus. [SEP] Political positions of Donald Trump // is single payer. In 2014, after a New York physician returned from treating Ebola patients in West Africa and showed symptoms of the disease, Trump tweeted that if the doctor had Ebola, "Obama should apologize to the American people & resign!" When the doctor was later confirmed to have developed Ebola in New York, Trump tweeted that it was "Obama's fault" and "I have been saying for weeks for President Obama to stop the flights from West Africa. So simple, but he refused. A TOTAL incompetent!" Trump also criticized President Obama's decision to send 3,000 U.S. troops to affected regions
The legalization of marijuana will force police departments to euthanize their drug sniffing dogs. [SEP] Michael Moldaver // discovered a large amount of marijuana. MacKenzie alleged the dog's sniff violated his section 8 "Charter" rights against unreasonable search and seizure because the police lacked reasonable suspicion he was involved in a drug related offence. Moldaver wrote the majority decision in the 5–4 ruling, holding the search was constitutional. He held that police are permitted to use sniffer-dogs to search for drugs and prevent crimes, even in situations where individuals have a reasonable expectation of privacy, provided the police have reasonable grounds to suspect that the search will reveal evidence of a criminal offence. He emphasized that the police
The legalization of marijuana will force police departments to euthanize their drug sniffing dogs. [SEP] R v AM // lockers, the officer then had a drug-sniffing dog sniff the unattended backpacks lined up against a wall in the gymnasium. The dog reacted and bit one of the backpacks. Without obtaining a warrant, the police opened the backpack and found illicit drugs. They charged the student who owned the backpack with possession of marijuana and psilocybin for the purpose of trafficking. At trial, the accused brought an application for exclusion of the evidence, arguing that his rights under section 8 of the "Charter" had been violated. The trial judge allowed the application, finding two unreasonable searches: the search conducted with
The legalization of marijuana will force police departments to euthanize their drug sniffing dogs. [SEP] Detection dog // prohibited drugs were found in only 26% of searches following an indication by a drug sniffer dog. Of these, 84% were for small amounts of cannabis deemed for personal use. The report also found that the legislation was ineffective at detecting persons in supply of prohibited drugs, with only 0.19% of indications ultimately leading to a successful prosecution for supply. Detection dogs give police the potential to conduct searches without cause, a manner that is unregulated. They're often accused of being motivated more by the state's desire to be seen doing something, than any serious attempt to respond to the
The legalization of marijuana will force police departments to euthanize their drug sniffing dogs. [SEP] Michele Leonhart // 125 Colorado dogs who had contracted marijuana toxicosis between 2005 and 2010 found that only two dogs died as a result of ingesting marijuana edibles, and in both cases it was unclear whether the toxicity in question came from the ingestion of THC or from items toxic to canines that were also found in said marijuana edibles, such as chocolate and caffeine. In March 2015, it was revealed DEA agents were participating in drug cartel-funded sex parties with prostitutes. Agents were given expensive gifts, weapons and money. Surrounding the scandal, Leonhart announced her retirement. In April 2015, twenty-two members of
The legalization of marijuana will force police departments to euthanize their drug sniffing dogs. [SEP] Florida v. Jardines // to a sniff test by a drug-detection dog. After the defendant's behavior at an airport attracted suspicion, police seized his luggage and subjected it to a sniff test by a drug-detection dog while en route through another airport, and ultimately discovered cocaine inside. The Supreme Court concluded that the seizure, which lasted ninety minutes, was an impermissibly long "Terry" stop, but with respect to the dog sniff, the Court said that: Next, in "City of Indianapolis v. Edmond" (2000), the Supreme Court tackled the question of whether police could stop vehicles at a dragnet-style drug interdiction checkpoint and subject each
The legalization of marijuana will force police departments to euthanize their drug sniffing dogs. [SEP] Florida v. Jardines // Florida v. Jardines Florida v. Jardines, 569 U.S. 1 (2013), is a decision by the United States Supreme Court which held that police use of a trained detection dog to sniff for narcotics on the front porch of a private home is a "search" within the meaning of the Fourth Amendment to the United States Constitution, and therefore, without consent, requires both probable cause and a search warrant. In 2006, police in Miami, Florida received an anonymous tip that a home was being used as a marijuana grow house. They led a drug-sniffing police dog to the front door of
The legalization of marijuana will force police departments to euthanize their drug sniffing dogs. [SEP] Berwyn Heights, Maryland mayor's residence drug raid // the dog was fleeing and that the force used was "unbelievably excessive". This version of events was also confirmed by the later testimony of a law enforcement officer present at the raid. Prince George's County Police later arrested two men in a drug trafficking plan involving the shipment of large parcels of marijuana to addresses of uninvolved residents. After each parcel was delivered outside the addressee's home, another individual would retrieve the drugs. Police seized six packages containing of marijuana. On June 19, 2009, the Prince George's County Sheriff's Office issued a report of an internal investigation that cleared its
The legalization of marijuana will force police departments to euthanize their drug sniffing dogs. [SEP] Dave Albo // and strengthening penalties for repeat offenders of the animal cruelty statue through his 2007 and 2010 legislation. In 2016, Albo’s bill restored the powers of a standard law enforcement officer for Fairfax County Animal Control Officers. Cannabis Oil for the treatment of epilepsy: In 1979, Virginia passed a law making possession of marijuana legal for the treatment of cancer and glaucoma legal with a valid prescription from a doctor. However, the term “valid prescription” prevented doctors from prescribing it due to the Federal Schedule 1 status of the drug. The law was in place until Albo’s 2015 legislation, HB 1445,
The legalization of marijuana will force police departments to euthanize their drug sniffing dogs. [SEP] Probable cause // warrant and found a sizable amount of drugs in Place's luggage. It was not considered a search until after the warrant because a trained dog can sniff out the smell of narcotics, without having to open and look through the luggage. The power of probable cause by K-9 units smelling for drugs is not limited to just airports, but even in schools, public parking lots, high crime neighborhood streets, mail, visitors in prisons, traffic stops, etc. If there is an incident where the dog alerts its officer, the probable cause from the dog is considered enough to conduct a search,
The legalization of marijuana will force police departments to euthanize their drug sniffing dogs. [SEP] California Senate Bill 420 // court ruling standing which requires local police officers to enforce state law, not federal law. The case stems from a traffic stop of Felix Kha, who had 8.1 grams of medical marijuana in a container, which the police officers confiscated. The ruling requires police officers to return the seized medicine. But it must be remembered it is not the job of the local police to enforce the federal drug laws as such. Concerning the scope of the legal defense created by the bill, the California Fourth Appellate District clarified the law in regards to the Medical Marijuana Program Act (MMPA),
“If you look at the one (hydroxychloroquine) survey, the only bad survey, they were giving it to people that were in very bad shape. They were very old. Almost dead.” [SEP] Chloroquine // the kidneys and toxicity should be monitored carefully in people with poor kidney functions. Chloroquine is very dangerous in overdose. It is rapidly absorbed from the gut. In 1961, published studies showed three children who took overdoses died within 2.5 hours of taking the drug. While the amount of the overdose was not cited, the therapeutic index for chloroquine is known to be small. Symptoms of overdose include headache, drowsiness, visual disturbances, nausea and vomiting, cardiovascular collapse, seizures, and sudden respiratory and cardiac arrest. A metabolite of chloroquine – hydroxychloroquine – has a long half-life (32–56 days) in blood and
“If you look at the one (hydroxychloroquine) survey, the only bad survey, they were giving it to people that were in very bad shape. They were very old. Almost dead.” [SEP] Hydroxychloroquine // mouth and eyes, blood disorders, convulsions, vision difficulties, diminished reflexes, emotional changes, excessive coloring of the skin, hearing loss, hives, itching, liver problems or liver failure, loss of hair, muscle paralysis, weakness or atrophy, nightmares, psoriasis, reading difficulties, tinnitus, skin inflammation and scaling, skin rash, vertigo, weight loss, and occasionally urinary incontinence. Hydroxychloroquine can worsen existing cases of both psoriasis and porphyria. One of the most serious side effects is a toxicity in the eye (generally with chronic use). People taking 400 mg of hydroxychloroquine or less per day generally have a negligible risk of macular toxicity, whereas the risk
“If you look at the one (hydroxychloroquine) survey, the only bad survey, they were giving it to people that were in very bad shape. They were very old. Almost dead.” [SEP] Hydroxychloroquine // symptoms of overdose can occur within a half an hour after ingestion. Overdose symptoms include convulsions, drowsiness, headache, heart problems or heart failure, difficulty breathing and vision problems. Hydroxychloroquine has similar pharmacokinetics to chloroquine, with rapid gastrointestinal absorption and elimination by the kidneys. Cytochrome P450 enzymes (CYP2D6, 2C8, 3A4 and 3A5) metabolize hydroxychloroquine to "N"-desethylhydroxychloroquine. Antimalarials are lipophilic weak bases and easily pass plasma membranes. The free base form accumulates in lysosomes (acidic cytoplasmic vesicles) and is then protonated, resulting in concentrations within lysosomes up to 1000 times higher than in culture media. This increases the pH of the lysosome
“If you look at the one (hydroxychloroquine) survey, the only bad survey, they were giving it to people that were in very bad shape. They were very old. Almost dead.” [SEP] Chloroquine retinopathy // suggest that lean body weight is more accurate when calculating daily dosage. Most patients are routinely given 400 mg of hydroxychloroquine daily (or 250 mg chloroquine). This dose is considered acceptable. The earliest signs of toxicity include bilateral paracentral visual field changes (best detected with a red test object) and a subtle granular depigmentation of the paracentral RPE. With continued drug exposure, there is progressive development of a bilateral atrophic bull's-eye maculopathy and paracentral scotomata, which may in severe cases ultimately spread over the entire fundus, causing widespread retinal atrophy and visual loss. Both agents bind to melanin pigment in
“If you look at the one (hydroxychloroquine) survey, the only bad survey, they were giving it to people that were in very bad shape. They were very old. Almost dead.” [SEP] Hydroxychloroquine // a 48-week period. Hydroxychloroquine is widely used in the treatment of post-Lyme arthritis. It may have both an anti-spirochaete activity and an anti-inflammatory activity, similar to the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. The most common adverse effects are a mild nausea and occasional stomach cramps with mild diarrhea. The most serious adverse effects affect the eye. For short-term treatment of acute malaria, adverse effects can include abdominal cramps, diarrhea, heart problems, reduced appetite, headache, nausea and vomiting. For prolonged treatment of lupus or arthritis, adverse effects include the acute symptoms, plus altered eye pigmentation, acne, anaemia, bleaching of hair, blisters in
“If you look at the one (hydroxychloroquine) survey, the only bad survey, they were giving it to people that were in very bad shape. They were very old. Almost dead.” [SEP] Hydroxychloroquine // taken if combined with medication altering liver function as well as aurothioglucose (Solganal), cimetidine (Tagamet) or digoxin (Lanoxin). HCQ can increase plasma concentrations of penicillamine which may contribute to the development of severe side effects. It enhances hypoglycemic effects of insulin and oral hypoglycemic agents. Dose altering is recommended to prevent profound hypoglycemia. Antacids may decrease the absorption of HCQ. Both neostigmine and pyridostigmine antagonize the action of hydroxychloroquine. While there may be a link between hydroxychloroquine and hemolytic anemia in those with glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency, this risk may be low in those of African descent. Due to rapid absorption,
“If you look at the one (hydroxychloroquine) survey, the only bad survey, they were giving it to people that were in very bad shape. They were very old. Almost dead.” [SEP] Plasmodium vivax // the 1970s and tested in safety trials. It languished, however, until the push for malaria elimination sparked new interest in primaquine alternatives. Among patients who received a 600-mg dose, 91% were relapse-free after 6 months. Among patients who received primaquine, 24% relapsed within 6 months. "The data are absolutely spectacular," Wells says. Ideally, he says, researchers will be able to combine the safety data from the Army's earlier trials with the new study in a submission to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for approval. Like primaquine, tafenoquine causes hemolysis in people who are G6PD deficient. In 2013 researchers produced
“If you look at the one (hydroxychloroquine) survey, the only bad survey, they were giving it to people that were in very bad shape. They were very old. Almost dead.” [SEP] Mefloquine // the drug's very long half-life, the Centers for Disease Control originally recommended a mefloquine dosage of 250 mg every two weeks; however, this caused an unacceptably high malaria rate in the Peace Corps volunteers who participated in the approval study, so the drug regimen was switched to once a week. The first randomized, controlled trial on a mixed population was performed in 2001. Prophylaxis with mefloquine was compared to prophylaxis with atovaquone-proguanil. Roughly 67% of participants in the mefloquine arm reported greater than or equal to one adverse event, vs 71% in the atovaquone-proguanil arm. In the mefloquine arm, 5%
“If you look at the one (hydroxychloroquine) survey, the only bad survey, they were giving it to people that were in very bad shape. They were very old. Almost dead.” [SEP] Hydroxychloroquine // begins to go up when a person takes the medication over 5 years or has a cumulative dose of more than 1000 grams. The daily safe maximum dose for eye toxicity can be computed from one's height and weight using this calculator. Cumulative doses can also be calculated from this calculator. Macular toxicity is related to the total cumulative dose rather than the daily dose. Regular eye screening, even in the absence of visual symptoms, is recommended to begin when either of these risk factors occurs. Toxicity from hydroxychloroquine may be seen in two distinct areas of the eye: the
“If you look at the one (hydroxychloroquine) survey, the only bad survey, they were giving it to people that were in very bad shape. They were very old. Almost dead.” [SEP] Diethylene glycol // failure and an 84% decline in admissions by unexplained renal failure. A propolis syrup manufactured by Huilen Laboratories in Buenos Aires, Argentina, contained between 24 and 66.5% DEG, and caused the death of 29 people. In the poorest country in the Western Hemisphere, diseases are not recognized unless they become large or unusual. Between November 1995 and June 1996, almost 109 children admitted to the University Hospital in Port-au-Prince, Haiti, presented with acute renal failure. By June 1996, with no idea what was causing the epidemic, the Pan American Health Organization (PAHO) Haiti representative contacted the World Health Organization (WHO,
Pelosi sets Medicare showdown on drug costs and new benefits. [SEP] Manhattan Institute for Policy Research // 1332 "state innovation" waivers giving states the flexibility to increase choice, competition, and affordability under the ACA. The Institute's health care scholars oppose allowing the federal government to negotiate prices in the Medicare Part D prescription drug program and believe that drug price negotiating has adverse effects in the Veterans Administration. Paul Howard argues that the first step in reforming Medicaid is for Congress to enact per-capita spending caps. In 2016, Howard argued that California’s Proposition 61–a measure that would have imposed price controls on some prescription drugs in the state – was a flawed proposal that might have actually
Pelosi sets Medicare showdown on drug costs and new benefits. [SEP] Nancy Pelosi // passage of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010. Pelosi was a key figure in convincing President Barack Obama to continue pushing for health care reform after the election of Massachusetts Sen. Scott Brown in a January special election, a defeat that was seen as potentially fatal to Democratic reform efforts. After delivering 219 votes in the House for Obama's signature health care package, Pelosi was both praised and heckled as she made her way to Capitol Hill. Pelosi has voted to increase Medicare and Medicaid benefits. She does not endorse Senator Bernie Sanders' bill for single payer
Pelosi sets Medicare showdown on drug costs and new benefits. [SEP] Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act // votes from "yea" to "nay". The bill passed 220-215. The Democrats cried foul, and Bill Thomas, the Republican chairman of the Ways and Means committee, challenged the result in a gesture to satisfy the concerns of the minority. He subsequently voted to table his own challenge; the tally to table was 210 ayes, 193 noes. The Senate's consideration of the conference report was somewhat less heated, as cloture on it was invoked by a vote of 70-29. However, a budget point of order raised by Tom Daschle, and voted on. As 60 votes were necessary to override it, the challenge
Pelosi sets Medicare showdown on drug costs and new benefits. [SEP] Political positions of Ron Paul // the costs of medications for the elderly and disabled, and which prohibited the government from negotiating directly with pharmaceutical companies to try to get lower prices for the covered medications. In 2007, he again went against the majority of House Republicans when he voted with all of the Democrats in support of the Medicare Prescription Drug Price Negotiation Act, which, if enacted, would have given the government the authority to negotiate Medicare Part D drug prices with the manufacturers. During the 2012 presidential primary campaign, Paul said that although he remains opposed to Medicare Part D, repealing it was not
Pelosi sets Medicare showdown on drug costs and new benefits. [SEP] Nancy Pelosi // healthcare. On March 10, 2017, Pelosi stated that Democrats would continue battling Republican efforts to repeal the Affordable Care Act but would also be willing to form a compromise measure in the event that Republicans were unable to pass a compromise bill and reached out for bipartisan support. She indicated her support for the Republican plan to expand Health Savings Accounts and said the question of Republicans accepting an expansion of Medicaid was important. In September, Pelosi sent a letter to Democrats praising Senator John McCain for announcing his opposition to the latest Republican effort to repeal and replace the
Pelosi sets Medicare showdown on drug costs and new benefits. [SEP] Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act // lobbyist for the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America (PhRMA), the trade association and lobby group for the drug industry with a "rumored salary of $2 million a year," drawing criticism from Public Citizen, the consumer advocacy group. They claimed that Tauzin "may have been negotiating for the lobbying job while writing the Medicare legislation." Tauzin was responsible for including a provision that prohibited Medicare from negotiating prices with drug companies. House Democratic leader Nancy Pelosi said, The bill was debated and negotiated for nearly six months in Congress, and finally passed amid unusual circumstances. Several times in the legislative
Pelosi sets Medicare showdown on drug costs and new benefits. [SEP] Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act // a $180 to $265 annual deductible, 25% (or approximate flat copay) of full drug costs up to $2,400. After the initial coverage limit is met, a period commonly referred to as the "Donut Hole" begins when an enrollee may be responsible for the insurance company's negotiated price of the drug, less than the retail price without insurance. The Affordable Care Act, also commonly known as "Obamacare", modified this measure. With the passage of the Balanced Budget Act of 1997, Medicare beneficiaries were given the option to receive their Medicare benefits through private health insurance plans, instead of through the Original
Pelosi sets Medicare showdown on drug costs and new benefits. [SEP] Nancy Pelosi // Affordable Care Act and called for both lawmakers and advocacy groups to put pressure on Republicans in the health care discussion. Pelosi said the Democrats would be unified as putting "a stake in the heart of this monstrous bill". In July 2018, during a speech at Independence First, Pelosi said the goal of the Democrats "has always been to expand coverage and to do so in a way that improves benefits ... and we have to address the affordability issue that is so undermined by the Republicans." In November 2018, after the Democrats gained a majority in the House following
Pelosi sets Medicare showdown on drug costs and new benefits. [SEP] Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act // prescription drugs in patient care has significantly increased. As new and expensive drugs have come into use, patients, particularly senior citizens at whom Medicare was targeted, have found prescriptions harder to afford. The MMA was designed to address this problem. The benefit is funded in a complex way, reflecting diverse priorities of lobbyists and constituencies. Beginning in 2006, a prescription drug benefit called Medicare Part D was made available. Coverage is available only through insurance companies and HMOs, and is voluntary. Enrollees paid the following initial costs for the initial benefits: a minimum monthly premium of $24.80 (premiums may vary),
Pelosi sets Medicare showdown on drug costs and new benefits. [SEP] Political positions of Ron Paul // private contracts, and binding arbitration to resolve medical disputes benefits patients, who receive full compensation in a timelier manner than under the current system," as well as physicians and hospitals, since their litigation costs, and malpractice insurance premiums, would be markedly reduced. Paul proposes that all government funding of medical care be eliminated (with the exception, perhaps, of care for veterans). His Plan to Restore America budget proposal would begin a phase out of Medicare starting in 2013, when workers younger than 25 would be able to opt out of participating in the program. He says that during the transition
Are You At Risk? 5 Different Types of Prostate Cancer Found [SEP] Active surveillance of prostate cancer // groups (see Prostate Cancer Risk Stratification Table at right for explanation), death from prostate cancer occurred in 2.7%, 10.8%, and 17.5% of men with low, intermediate, and high risk disease, respectively. Recognizing that men in the PIVOT study were more likely to have been diagnosed as a result of PSA based testing as compared to men in the SPGS-4 who were not, it is of interest that cumulative deaths from prostate cancer in the SPGS-4 among men with low risk disease (11%) is comparable to that of men with intermediate risk disease (10.8%) in PIVOT. These data suggest that the
Are You At Risk? 5 Different Types of Prostate Cancer Found [SEP] Prostate cancer // of prostate cancer and 30,000 deaths due to prostate cancer. Men with high blood pressure are more likely to develop prostate cancer. There is a small increased risk of prostate cancer associated with lack of exercise. A 2010 study found that prostate basal cells were the most common site of origin for prostate cancers. Genetic background may contribute to prostate cancer risk, as suggested by associations with race, family, and specific gene variants. Men who have a first-degree relative (father or brother) with prostate cancer have twice the risk of developing prostate cancer, and those with two first-degree relatives affected
Are You At Risk? 5 Different Types of Prostate Cancer Found [SEP] Prostate-specific antigen // screened, 29 will experience erectile dysfunction, 18 will suffer urinary incontinence, 2 will have serious cardiovascular events, 1 will suffer pulmonary embolus or deep venous thrombosis, and 1 perioperative death. Since the expected harm relative to risk of death are perceived by patients as minimal, men found to have prostate cancer usually (up to 90% of cases) elect to receive treatment. Men with prostate cancer may be characterized as low-, intermediate-, or high-risk for having/developing metastatic disease or dying of prostate cancer. PSA level is one of three variables on which the risk-stratification is based; the others are the grade
Are You At Risk? 5 Different Types of Prostate Cancer Found [SEP] Prostate cancer // know they have prostate cancer. Autopsy studies of Chinese, German, Israeli, Jamaican, Swedish, and Ugandan men who died of other causes have found prostate cancer in 30% of men in their fifties, and in 80% of men in their seventies. Men who have first-degree family members with prostate cancer appear to have double the risk of getting the disease compared to men without prostate cancer in the family. This risk appears to be greater for men with an affected brother than for men with an affected father. In the United States in 2005, there were an estimated 230,000 new cases
Are You At Risk? 5 Different Types of Prostate Cancer Found [SEP] Prostate cancer // have a fivefold greater risk compared with men with no family history. In the United States, prostate cancer more commonly affects black men than white or Hispanic men, and is also more deadly in black men. In contrast, the incidence and mortality rates for Hispanic men are one third lower than for non-Hispanic whites. Studies of twins in Scandinavia suggest that 40% of prostate cancer risk can be explained by inherited factors. No single gene is responsible for prostate cancer; many different genes have been implicated. Mutations in "BRCA1" and "BRCA2", important risk factors for ovarian cancer and breast cancer
Are You At Risk? 5 Different Types of Prostate Cancer Found [SEP] Prostate cancer // extensive the cancer is. Most men with prostate cancer do not end up dying from the disease. The 5-year survival rate in the United States is 99%. Globally, it is the second most common type of cancer and the fifth leading cause of cancer-related death in men. In 2012, it occurred in 1.1 million men and caused 307,000 deaths. It was the most common cancer in males in 84 countries, occurring more commonly in the developed world. Rates have been increasing in the developing world. Detection increased significantly in the 1980s and 1990s in many areas due to increased PSA
Are You At Risk? 5 Different Types of Prostate Cancer Found [SEP] Active surveillance of prostate cancer // in the Swedish observational study cited above. The Prostate Cancer Intervention versus Observation Trial (PIVOT) randomized 731 men diagnosed with localized prostate cancer to radical prostatectomy or observation (mean age 67 years; median PSA 7.8 ng/ml). In the observation group, bone metastases and prostate cancer death occurred in 10.6% and 8.4%, respectively through 12 years. Death from prostate cancer occurred in 5.7% and 17.4% of men diagnosed with Gleason score below 7 and 7 and above, respectively; and 6.2% and 12.8% of men with a PSA of 10 ng/ml or below and above 10 ng/ml, respectively. Stratified by D’Amico risk
Are You At Risk? 5 Different Types of Prostate Cancer Found [SEP] Prostate cancer // the prostate (prostatitis) may increase the chance for prostate cancer while another study shows infection may help prevent prostate cancer by increasing blood flow to the area. In particular, infection with the sexually transmitted infections chlamydia, gonorrhea, or syphilis seems to increase risk. Papilloma virus has been proposed in several studies to have a potential role in prostate cancer, but as of 2015 the evidence was inconclusive. A review in 2018 suggested there may be an increased risk but noted that this increased risk was still debatable. Research released in May 2007 found that US war veterans who had been
Are You At Risk? 5 Different Types of Prostate Cancer Found [SEP] Prostate cancer // this relationship has not been identified. An increased risk is associated with the BRCA mutations. Prostate cancer is diagnosed by biopsy. Medical imaging may then be done to determine if the cancer has spread to other parts of the body. Prostate cancer screening is controversial. Prostate-specific antigen (PSA) testing increases cancer detection, but it is controversial regarding whether it improves outcomes. Informed decision making is recommended when it comes to screening among those 55 to 69 years old. Testing, if carried out, is more reasonable in those with a longer life expectancy. While 5α-reductase inhibitors appear to decrease low-grade cancer
Are You At Risk? 5 Different Types of Prostate Cancer Found [SEP] Prostate cancer // Europe in 2012 it was the 3rd most diagnosed cancer after breast and colorectal at 417,000 cases. In the United Kingdom it is also the second most common cause of cancer death after lung cancer, where around 35,000 cases are diagnosed every year and of which around 10,000 die of it. Although the prostate was first described by Venetian anatomist Niccolò Massa in 1536, and illustrated by Flemish anatomist Andreas Vesalius in 1538, prostate cancer was not identified until 1853. Prostate cancer was initially considered a rare disease, probably because of shorter life expectancies and poorer detection methods in the
Under last year’s health care reform, "a bunch of bureaucrats decide whether you get care, such as continuing on dialysis or cancer chemotherapy. [SEP] Healthcare reform debate in the United States // remarks were based on the ideas of Betsy McCaughey. During 2009, former Alaska Governor Sarah Palin wrote against alleged rationing, referring to what by her interpretation was a "downright evil" "death panel" in current reform legislation known as H.R. 3200 Section 1233. However, Palin supported similar end of life discussion and advance directives for patients in 2008. Defenders of the plan indicated that the proposed legislation H.R. 3200 would allow Medicare for the first time to cover patient-doctor consultations about end-of-life planning, including discussions about drawing up a living will or planning hospice treatment. Patients could seek out such advice
Under last year’s health care reform, "a bunch of bureaucrats decide whether you get care, such as continuing on dialysis or cancer chemotherapy. [SEP] Healthcare reform debate in the United States // healthcare services are provided to those in the last months or year of life and advocated restrictions in cases where quality of life cannot be improved. He also recommended that a budget be established for government healthcare expenses, through establishing spending caps and pay-as-you-go rules that require tax increases for any incremental spending. He has indicated that a combination of tax increases and spending cuts will be required. All of these issues would be addressed under the aegis of a fiscal reform commission. Critics have argued that medical malpractice costs are significant and should be addressed via tort reform. At
Under last year’s health care reform, "a bunch of bureaucrats decide whether you get care, such as continuing on dialysis or cancer chemotherapy. [SEP] Health care reforms proposed during the Obama administration // Senate and was later passed by the House of Representatives in amended form on March 21, 2010 (with a vote of 219–212). President Obama signed the reforms into law on March 23, 2010. Reuters and CNN summarized the reforms and the year in which they take effect. A variety of specific types of reform have been suggested to improve the United States health care system. These range from increased use of health care technology through changing the anti-trust rules governing health insurance companies and tort-reform to rationing of care. Different overall strategies have been suggested as well. The Institute of
Under last year’s health care reform, "a bunch of bureaucrats decide whether you get care, such as continuing on dialysis or cancer chemotherapy. [SEP] Health care reform // "“Getting Health Reform Right: A Guide to Improving Performance and Equity,”" Marc Roberts, William Hsiao, Peter Berman, and Michael Reich of the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health aim to provide decision-makers with tools and frameworks for health care system reform. They propose five “control knobs” of health reform: financing, payment, organization, regulation, and behavior. These control knobs refer to the “mechanisms and processes that reformers can adjust to improve system performance”. The authors selected these control knobs as representative of the most important factors upon which a policymaker can act to determine health system outcomes. Their method emphasizes
Under last year’s health care reform, "a bunch of bureaucrats decide whether you get care, such as continuing on dialysis or cancer chemotherapy. [SEP] United States Health Care Reform: Progress to Date and Next Steps // United States Health Care Reform: Progress to Date and Next Steps "United States Health Care Reform: Progress to Date and Next Steps" is a review article by then-President of the United States Barack Obama in which he reviews the effects of the Affordable Care Act (ACA), a major health care law he signed in 2010, and recommends health care policy changes that he thinks would build on its successes. The article was published in the "Journal of the American Medical Association" ("JAMA") as a "special communication" online on July 11, 2016, and in print on August 2, 2016. With the
Under last year’s health care reform, "a bunch of bureaucrats decide whether you get care, such as continuing on dialysis or cancer chemotherapy. [SEP] Simone Campbell // was the General Director of her religious institute and oversaw its activities in the United States, Mexico, Taiwan, and the Philippines. Campbell was first recruited to lead NETWORK in 2004 and continues to serve as its executive director. In March 2010, the United States Congress debated reforms to healthcare, known as the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (H. R. 3590). As a part of her work with NETWORK, Campbell wrote the "nuns' letter" supporting the reforms and asked leaders of women's religious orders to sign it. Sixty heads of religious orders and umbrella groups signed and the letter was
Under last year’s health care reform, "a bunch of bureaucrats decide whether you get care, such as continuing on dialysis or cancer chemotherapy. [SEP] Health care reform // Health care reform Health care reform is a general rubric used for discussing major health policy creation or changes—for the most part, governmental policy that affects health care delivery in a given place. Health care reform typically attempts to: In the United States, the debate regarding health care reform includes questions of a right to health care, access, fairness, sustainability, quality and amounts spent by government. The mixed public-private health care system in the United States is the most expensive in the world, with health care costing more per person than in any other nation, and a greater portion of
Under last year’s health care reform, "a bunch of bureaucrats decide whether you get care, such as continuing on dialysis or cancer chemotherapy. [SEP] Health care reforms proposed during the Obama administration // of life cannot be improved. He also recommended that a budget be established for government healthcare expenses, through establishing spending caps and pay-as-you-go rules that require tax increases for any incremental spending. He has indicated that a combination of tax increases and spending cuts will be required. All of these issues would be addressed under the aegis of a fiscal reform commission. Rationing by price means accepting that there is no triage according to need. Thus in the private sector it is accepted that some people get expensive surgeries such as liver transplants or non life-threatening ones such as cosmetic
Under last year’s health care reform, "a bunch of bureaucrats decide whether you get care, such as continuing on dialysis or cancer chemotherapy. [SEP] Healthcare reform debate in the United States // either a government takeover or a corporate takeover, or both. This debate occurs in the context of a "revolution...transforming how medical care is delivered:" from 2002 to 2008, the percentage of medical practices owned by doctors fell from more than 70% to below 50%; in contrast to the traditional practice in which most doctors cared for patients in small, privately owned clinics, by 2008 most doctors had become employees of hospitals, nearly all of which are owned by corporations or government. Republicans also argue the proposed excise tax on medical devices and drugs would increase the tax burden on vaccine
Under last year’s health care reform, "a bunch of bureaucrats decide whether you get care, such as continuing on dialysis or cancer chemotherapy. [SEP] Health care reform // of recommendations, the framework allows users to adapt their analysis and actions based on cultural context and relevance of interventions. As noted above, many frameworks for health care reform exist in the literature. Using a comprehensive yet responsive approach such as the control knobs framework proposed by Roberts, Hsiao, Berman, and Reich allows decision-makers to more precisely determine the “mechanisms and processes” that can be changed in order to achieve improved health status, customer satisfaction, and financial risk protection. Health care reform Health care reform is a general rubric used for discussing major health policy creation or changes—for the most
Assault rifles already are banned. [SEP] Federal Assault Weapons Ban // In 2004, a research report commissioned by the National Institute of Justice found that if the ban was renewed, the effects on gun violence would likely be small and perhaps too small for reliable measurement, because rifles in general, including rifles referred to as "assault rifles" or "assault weapons", are rarely used in gun crimes. That study, by Christopher S. Koper, Daniel J. Woods, and Jeffrey A. Roth of the Jerry Lee Center of Criminology, University of Pennsylvania, found no statistically significant evidence that either the assault weapons ban or the ban on magazines holding more than 10 rounds had
Assault rifles already are banned. [SEP] Assault weapons legislation in the United States // rounds), pistol grip, and certain types of firearm stocks such as telescoping or collapsing stocks. Also included are lists of various classes and models of firearms, including semi-automatic firearms, AR-15 style rifles, assault weapons, semi-automatic pistols, semi-automatic shotguns, and others, some of which have already been banned or restricted under existing legislation including grenade launchers. The legislation also proscribes high-capacity magazines. Three U.S. states passed assault weapons bans before Congress passed the federal Assault Weapons Ban of 1994: California in 1989, New Jersey in 1990, and Connecticut in 1993. Four others passed assault weapons bans before AWB 1994 expired in
Assault rifles already are banned. [SEP] Roberti-Roos Assault Weapons Control Act of 1989 // banned by specific name, and which has a fixed, non-detachable 10-round (maximum, anything above 10 is a felony) magazine. In such a configuration, otherwise prohibited features such as a telescoping stock, pistol grip, and flash hider may be present. While formerly prohibited under the now-expired federal assault weapon ban of 1994–2004, the presence of a bayonet lug is not prohibited by California state law and can be present on firearms without violation. However, the magazine cannot be detachable, so to load the rifle the shooter must "top load". To top-load, the shooter pulls the rear takedown pin, hinges the upper
Assault rifles already are banned. [SEP] Assault weapon // that support restrictions on ownership of firearms include the Brady Campaign and the Coalition to Stop Gun Violence. Prominent opponents of assault-weapons bans include the National Rifle Association and Gun Owners of America. In 2002, the NRA's Wayne LaPierre and Jim Baker said "assault weapons" is a pejorative term. The National Shooting Sports Foundation considers it a politically driven catchphrase aimed to conflate non-automatic weapons with full-automatic assault rifles. As of 2012, there are an estimated 2.5-3.7 million rifles from just the AR-15 family of rifles in civilian use in the United States; the total number of assault weapons in
Assault rifles already are banned. [SEP] Assault Weapons Ban of 2013 // 2013, Obama announced a plan for reducing gun violence in four parts, one of which was banning assault weapons and high-capacity magazines. The plan included 23 executive orders, signed immediately by the president, and 12 proposals for Congress, including reinstating and strengthening the ban on assault weapons that was in place from 1994 to 2004, and limiting ammunition magazines to 10 rounds. The proposals were opposed by the NRA and the National Shooting Sports Foundation (NSSF), and opposition was expected by Republican and some Democrat legislators. On January 24, 2013, Dianne Feinstein and 24 Democratic cosponsors introduced , the Assault
Assault rifles already are banned. [SEP] Federal Assault Weapons Ban // number of exemptions and exclusions from its prohibitions: In 1989, the George H. W. Bush administration had banned the importation of foreign-made, semiautomatic rifles deemed not to have "a legitimate sporting use." It did not affect similar but domestically-manufactured rifles. (The Gun Control Act of 1968 gives discretion to the Attorney General of the United States to choose whether to "authorize a firearm or ammunition to be imported or brought into the United States," under what is known as "the sporting purposes test.") Following the enactment of the Federal Assault Weapons Ban, the ATF determined that "certain semiautomatic assault rifles
Assault rifles already are banned. [SEP] Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act // registries for sexual offenders by September 1997. Title XI-Firearms, Subtitle A-Assault Weapons, formally known as the Public Safety and Recreational Firearms Use Protection Act but commonly known as the Federal Assault Weapons Ban or the Semi-Automatic Firearms Ban, barred the manufacture of 19 specific semi-automatic firearms, classified as "assault weapons", as well as any semi-automatic rifle, pistol, or shotgun capable of accepting a detachable magazine that has two or more features considered characteristic of such weapons. The list of such features included telescoping or folding stocks, pistol grips, flash suppressors, grenade launchers, and bayonet lugs. This law also banned possession
Assault rifles already are banned. [SEP] L1A1 Self-Loading Rifle // federal restrictions on ownership of L1A1 semi-automatic rifles. However, the 1989 import ban on military-style semi-automatic rifles made it impossible for genuine L1A1 rifles to be imported into the United States. The Federal Assault Weapons Ban, which lasted from 1994 to its expiration date in 2004, banned certain semi-automatic firearms by name as well as by features, which included several variants of certain military-style firearms, such as the FN-FAL and AR-15. Although the 1994 ban expired 10 years later, several states continue to enforce their own laws against military-style semi-automatic rifles, including California, New York, Massachusetts, Maryland, New Jersey, and
Assault rifles already are banned. [SEP] Assault Weapons Ban of 2013 // Weapons Ban of 2013, into the U.S. Senate. The bill was similar to the 1994 federal ban, but differed in that it used a one-feature test for a firearm to qualify as an assault weapon rather than the two-feature test of the 1994 ban. Such a move would deter the average gun owner from wanting to purchase a neutered rifle. In addition, it banned: the sale, transfer, importation or manufacture of about 150 named firearms; firearms with thumbhole stocks and bullet buttons; the importation of assault weapons and large-capacity magazines; and high-capacity ammunition magazines (defined as those capable of holding
Assault rifles already are banned. [SEP] Assault weapons legislation in the United States // weapons ban tried to address public concern about mass shootings while limiting the impact on recreational firearms use. In November 1993 the ban passed the United States Senate. The author of the ban, Dianne Feinstein D-CA, and other advocates said that it was a weakened version of the original proposal. In January 1994 Josh Sugarmann, executive director of the Violence Policy Center, said handguns and assault weapons should be banned. In May of that year former presidents Gerald Ford, Jimmy Carter, and Ronald Reagan wrote to the United States House of Representatives in support of banning "semi-automatic assault guns." They
Muslim girls buried alive by their father are fed and comforted by Jesus until rescuers come for them. [SEP] Daughters of Husayn ibn Ali // Karbala, and due to injuries, had intermingled with her flesh. Therefore, she was buried in the same burnt, ripped clothes in the dungeon of Shaam. As the grave was being filled after the burial, the mother let out a scream. All of the women huddled around her, and the prison walls began to shake with the cry, "Ya Sakina, Ya Mazloomah!" (O Sakina, O Oppressed one!). Then Yazid decided to release them from prison, allowing them to return to Medinah. Rubab would nevertheless come to her grave, placing her cheek on it and cry out, "Speak to me Sakinah. Only
Muslim girls buried alive by their father are fed and comforted by Jesus until rescuers come for them. [SEP] Islamic views on Jesus' death // bones were collected, bundled, and buried in the mound purported to be the grave of Jesus Christ.There is also a museum in Japan which has "evidence" of these claims. See: Shingō, Aomori Some Islamic scholars like Sheikh Mohammed al-Ghazali (not Imam al-Ghazali) and Javed Ahmad Ghamidi argue that Jesus was rescued but was given death by God before he was ascended bodily as God never allows His messengers to be dishonored, even their dead bodies. Thomas McElwain states that the context of the verse is clearly within the discussion of Jewish ridicule of Christians, not in context of whether or
Muslim girls buried alive by their father are fed and comforted by Jesus until rescuers come for them. [SEP] Islamic views on Jesus' death // unnoticed by the followers of Christ and his mother Mary. The Gospel of Barnabas then mentions that after three days since burial, Judas' body was stolen from his grave with rumors spreading of Jesus being risen from the dead. In following with Islamic lore, when Jesus was informed in the third heaven about what happened he prayed to God to be sent back to the earth, and later descended and gathered his mother, disciples, and followers and told them the truth of what happened. He then ascended back to the heavens, with the narrative continuing Islamic legend mirroring Christian doctrine
Muslim girls buried alive by their father are fed and comforted by Jesus until rescuers come for them. [SEP] Arab culture // Arabia, husbands would go as far as burying female infants alive because of the shame it caused them among their peers. Islam diminished this feral practice. Muhammad revealed a verse which deals with this phenomenon. It says, "And God will ask the female infant who had been buried alive (""mau'udda"") for what wrongdoing was she killed."This practice is long gone in the Arab world, but the sentiment of having a son over a daughter still resides and women are still subject to divorce for failure to give birth to a son as a first born child. The Pan Arab Games
Muslim girls buried alive by their father are fed and comforted by Jesus until rescuers come for them. [SEP] Norse funeral // is inherited by his family, a third pays for the funeral clothes, and a third pays for "nabīdh" (an alcoholic drink) to be drunk at the cremation. The dead chieftain was put in a temporary grave with "nābidh", fruit, and a drum, which was covered for ten days until they had sewn new clothes for him. Ibn Fadlān says that the dead man's family ask his slave girls and young slave boys for a volunteer to die with him; "usually, it is the slave girls who offer to die". A woman volunteered and was continually accompanied by two slave girls,
Muslim girls buried alive by their father are fed and comforted by Jesus until rescuers come for them. [SEP] Khamosh Pani // have a mixed reception: a warm welcome from the village barber and hostility from the growing number of young Muslim zealots. Saleem is embarrassed that his mother sent food to the pilgrims and teaches the village girls that non-Muslims can go to heaven. The pilgrim asks some villagers, including Amin, if they knew if a Sikh woman survived the riots. They say they do not know, but Amin later visits the pilgrim's hut and tells him to look for the woman who never goes to the well. Following the girls who bring water to her house, the pilgrim finds Ayesha.
Muslim girls buried alive by their father are fed and comforted by Jesus until rescuers come for them. [SEP] 1910 Shiraz blood libel // blood. The frightened rabbis swore that they did not know that a child of Muslim parents had strayed into the Jewish quarter and protested against the accusation. The people withdrew after threatening to put the entire Jewish quarter to fire and sword if the girl had not been found by noon the next day. On the same day, the body of a child was found one kilometer away from the city behind an abandoned palace, one hundred meters from the Jewish cemetery. Some thought that the body was that of the missing Muslim girl and that she had been killed
Muslim girls buried alive by their father are fed and comforted by Jesus until rescuers come for them. [SEP] Christian community of Najran // Najran persecutions in detail, the West-Syrian debater Simeon, the bishop of Beth Arsham describes how female martyrs rushed in to join "our parents and brothers and sisters who have died for the sake of Christ our lord". In one exchange, reminiscent of the Acts of Marta and her father Pusai, a freeborn woman of Najran named Habsa bint Hayyan taunts Dhu Nuwas with the memory of her father: Simeon of Beth Arsham's Second letter preserves yet another memorably gruesome episode. After seeing her Christian kinsmen burned alive, Ruhm, a great noblewoman of Najran, brings her daughter before the Himyarite king
Muslim girls buried alive by their father are fed and comforted by Jesus until rescuers come for them. [SEP] The Lost Tomb of Jesus // does contradict the belief that Jesus physically ascended to heaven. Finding someone's remains in Jesus' tomb conforms to the Muslim belief that a substitute for him was crucified, while he was raised bodily to heaven. The Islamic view of his disappearance, as mentioned in the Qur'an, states: "That they said (in boast), "We killed Al-Masih 'Isa the son of Maryam, the Messenger of Allah"; but they killed him not, nor crucified him, but so it was made to appear to them". The general Muslim interpretation of the verse is that God, to revenge from Judas' betrayal to Jesus (the fatherless
Muslim girls buried alive by their father are fed and comforted by Jesus until rescuers come for them. [SEP] Sukayna bint Husayn // father's head, who martyred my father, why are we held as captives?" With these words of sorrow, Sakina was quiet. Everyone thought that Sakinah had finally gone to sleep again, but she had died, at the age of four or five. Her body was buried in the dungeon. Zaynab held the still child as Ali dug a grave for his sister in the dungeon. Her clothes were burnt in Karbala, and due to injuries, had intermingled with her flesh. Therefore, she was buried in the same burnt, ripped clothes in the dungeon of Shaam. As the grave was being filled
Foreign Chinese prostitution money is allegedly behind the groups funding Congressman Jim Renacci’s Republican majority. [SEP] Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee // lawsuit and alleged that Adelson "approved of prostitution at a casino in Macau". The DCCC repeated the charges in press releases that attacked Republicans Jim Renacci, Scott DesJarlais, and Jim Gerlach. Adelson fought back against the claims, which he called "outrageous", and filed a brief threatening a libel suit against the DCCC which demanded that the "DCCC retract the claims, apologize for them, and retain any documents associated with them in preparation for a potential lawsuit". Politifact, a nonpartisan fact checking organization, rated the DCCC's claims as "pants on fire", saying that the DCCC "seized upon [a] questionable claim, extrapolated
Foreign Chinese prostitution money is allegedly behind the groups funding Congressman Jim Renacci’s Republican majority. [SEP] Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee // and exaggerated it to taint all of Adelson's political donations with prostitution earnings" and then carried "that on down a convoluted line to Scott DesJarlais and talk about "his Chinese prostitution money"". On August 2, 2012, under immense pressure from Adelson's right wing propaganda machine, including almost daily coordinated disinformation on Fox News, talk radio, House and Senate Republicans, and the RNC, the DCCC issued a public apology, saying: In press statements issued on June 29 and July 2, 2012, the DCCC made unsubstantiated allegations that attacked Sheldon Adelson, a supporter of the opposing party. This was wrong. The statements
Foreign Chinese prostitution money is allegedly behind the groups funding Congressman Jim Renacci’s Republican majority. [SEP] Sheldon Adelson // Hospital. In August 2012, the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee (DCCC), after being threatened with a libel suit, apologized and withdrew two blog posts that claimed Adelson had donated "Chinese prostitution money" to Republicans. Another organization, the National Jewish Democratic Council, posted on their website that Adelson "personally approved" of prostitution at his Macau resorts. Adelson sued for libel, but a federal judge dismissed the suit in September 2013, ordering Adelson to pay the NJDC's legal fees. In 2007, Adelson's estimated wealth was $26.5 billion, making him the third-richest person in the United States according to Forbes. and $26 billion for
Foreign Chinese prostitution money is allegedly behind the groups funding Congressman Jim Renacci’s Republican majority. [SEP] Chinese in Fiji // linked to illegal human smuggling activities for prostitution since 2006. Several night club owners who are Fijians of Chinese origin such the Wei Zhang and his wife Liu Da Jun (East Court Reastaurant), Billy Chen and Lum Moon Woot (Angel Night Club) and Yan Xiu Hua (Signals Night Club) have been accused of involvement in allowing mainland Chinese prostitutes to solicit for businesses within their premises from mainland Chinese fishing crews. Well-known persons of whole or partial Chinese descent include former Cabinet Minister Pio Wong, former Senators Kenneth Low and James Ah Koy, Peter Lee (former long serving General Manager
Foreign Chinese prostitution money is allegedly behind the groups funding Congressman Jim Renacci’s Republican majority. [SEP] Johnny Gosch // local police do not believe that Bonacci is a credible witness in the case and have not interviewed him. Bonacci accused Republican party activist and businessman Lawrence E. King Jr (b. 1944) who also served as director of the Franklin Credit Union in Omaha, Nebraska, of running an underage prostitution ring and victimizing him since an early age. In 1990, a county grand jury declined to charge King, finding the allegations to be "a carefully crafted hoax". Paul Bonacci and Alisha Owen were indicted on state perjury charges. A federal grand jury also declined to indict anyone for child prostitution
Foreign Chinese prostitution money is allegedly behind the groups funding Congressman Jim Renacci’s Republican majority. [SEP] Prostitution in China // confiscating passports, confining victims, or physically and financially threatening victims to compel their engagement in commercial sex. Well-organized criminal syndicates and local gangs play key roles in the trafficking of Chinese women and girls in China, recruiting victims with fraudulent employment opportunities and subsequently forcing them into commercial sex. Illicit brokers increasingly facilitate the forced and fraudulent marriage of South Asian, Southeast Asian, and African women and girls to Chinese men for fees of up $30,000. The men—sometimes in partnership with their parents—often incur large debts to cover these fees, which they attempt to recover by subjecting the “brides” to
Foreign Chinese prostitution money is allegedly behind the groups funding Congressman Jim Renacci’s Republican majority. [SEP] Johnny Chung // federal investigators that $35,000 of the money he donated came from China's military intelligence. Called a "hustler" by a U.S. National Security Council (NSC) aide Robert Suettinger, Chung befriended former Lt. Col. Liu Chaoying during a Commerce Department trade mission to China. In a July 20th 1997 Chicago Tribune article Johnny Chung was quoted as saying, "I see the White House is like a subway: You have to put in coins to open the gates." Chung later testified under oath to the U.S. House Committee in May 1999 that he was introduced to Chinese Gen. Ji Shengde, then head of
Foreign Chinese prostitution money is allegedly behind the groups funding Congressman Jim Renacci’s Republican majority. [SEP] Propaganda in China // to lobby on behalf of initiatives, such as export liberalization, on which they are aligned with the PRC." Through its agents in America, the PRC has financed a number of political candidates. Katrina Leung, a Chinese spy, contributed $10,000 to the campaign of Richard Riordan, the former mayor of Los Angeles. When he lost his primary to Bill Simon Jr., Leung contributed $4,200 to Simon's campaign. At the direction of her Chinese handlers, Leung also contributed to the 1992 campaign of George H. W. Bush. It is estimated that Leung donated around $27,000 to politicians in the 1990s on behalf
Foreign Chinese prostitution money is allegedly behind the groups funding Congressman Jim Renacci’s Republican majority. [SEP] 1996 United States campaign finance controversy // the fund-raising activities had uncovered evidence that agents of China sought to direct contributions from foreign sources to the Democratic National Committee (DNC) before the 1996 presidential campaign. The journalists wrote that intelligence information had shown the Chinese embassy in Washington, D.C. was used for coordinating contributions to the DNC in violation of United States law forbidding non-American citizens or non-permanent residents from giving monetary donations to United States politicians and political parties. A Republican investigator of the controversy stated the Chinese plan targeted both presidential and congressional United States elections, while Democratic Senators said the evidence showed the Chinese
Foreign Chinese prostitution money is allegedly behind the groups funding Congressman Jim Renacci’s Republican majority. [SEP] Campaign for Accountability // the bottom of allegations that the Macau casino operations of Sheldon Adelson's Las Vegas Sands Corp. are tied to organized crime. Weismann said that "Given the extent to which Mr. Adelson's wealth derives from Macau and his dominant role in funding Republican candidates, it seems highly likely that illegal foreign money has made its way into American elections." A spokesman for the Las Vegas Sands Corp. denied the allegations, and the CfA subsequently issued a retraction of its statement, saying: "The available evidence supports further investigation into these alleged matters but does not support the statements made by CfA outside
Henry Winkler Dead at 77 – A Huge Trump Supporter and Lifelong Gun Lover. [SEP] Gus Winkler // blasts fired by unknown assailants hidden in the back of a green delivery truck. Winkler died a half-an-hour later after arriving at a local hospital. He was buried at Park Lawn Cemetery in St. Louis. Winkler was one of the main casualties of a half-year-long purge where Frank Nitti eliminated the last of the so-called American Boys; including one of Winkler's alleged killers, Fred Goetz. Gus's wife, the former 'Georgette Bence' (1898-1962), would later write her memoirs in which she detailed her life with the notorious gangster. On February 29, 1960, while at his home in Florence, South Carolina, former
Henry Winkler Dead at 77 – A Huge Trump Supporter and Lifelong Gun Lover. [SEP] Fred Thompson // died from a brain injury resulting from cardiac arrest after what was determined to be an accidental overdose of prescription drugs on January 30, 2002. While single, Thompson had been romantically linked to country singer Lorrie Morgan, Republican fundraiser Georgette Mosbacher, Donald Trump's Counselor to the President Kellyanne Conway, and columnist Margaret Carlson. In July 1996, Thompson began dating Jeri Kehn (born 1966) and the two married almost six years later on June 29, 2002. When Thompson was asked in a December 2007 Associated Press survey of the candidates to name his favorite possession, he replied, tongue-in-cheek, "trophy wife". The
Henry Winkler Dead at 77 – A Huge Trump Supporter and Lifelong Gun Lover. [SEP] Gus Winkler // Gus Winkler Gus Winkler (March 28, 1901 – October 9, 1933) was an American gangster who headed a Prohibition-era criminal gang specializing in armed robbery and murder for hire with Fred "Killer" Burke. Winkler was an associate of Chicago mob boss Al Capone and is considered a suspect in the St. Valentine's Day Massacre. Winkler was born August Henry Winkeler to Bernard J. Winkeler (September 28, 1862- November 23, 1928) and Mary K. (June 1, 1862- March 5, 1923) in Lemay, Missouri of German descent; he was a brother to Clara (April 21, 1895 – June 23, 1987), Jacob C.
Henry Winkler Dead at 77 – A Huge Trump Supporter and Lifelong Gun Lover. [SEP] Gus Winkler // to have been confiscated from Winkler during his debriefing at the Bankers Building in the summer of 1933. Gus Winkler Gus Winkler (March 28, 1901 – October 9, 1933) was an American gangster who headed a Prohibition-era criminal gang specializing in armed robbery and murder for hire with Fred "Killer" Burke. Winkler was an associate of Chicago mob boss Al Capone and is considered a suspect in the St. Valentine's Day Massacre. Winkler was born August Henry Winkeler to Bernard J. Winkeler (September 28, 1862- November 23, 1928) and Mary K. (June 1, 1862- March 5, 1923) in Lemay, Missouri
Henry Winkler Dead at 77 – A Huge Trump Supporter and Lifelong Gun Lover. [SEP] Mary Anne MacLeod Trump // Donald Trump with a check that kept him from losing his home to foreclosure. Her husband Fred Trump died at age 93 in June 1999. MacLeod died a year later on August 7, 2000 at Long Island Jewish Medical Center in New Hyde Park, New York, at age 88. Services were held at Marble Collegiate Church in Manhattan and she was buried alongside her husband and son (Fred Jr.) at Lutheran All Faiths Cemetery in Middle Village, Queens. The death notice in her Scottish hometown newspaper, the "Stornoway Gazette", read: "Peacefully in New York on August 7, Mary Ann Trump,
Henry Winkler Dead at 77 – A Huge Trump Supporter and Lifelong Gun Lover. [SEP] Henry Winkler // Rules (for Dating my Teenage Daughter)" in 2003 by Ritter's request. On September 11, Ritter became ill during filming, and unexpectedly died. A stunned, grief-stricken Winkler was interviewed by Mary Hart of "Entertainment Tonight" and various other entertainment news sources. In 2008, he appeared in two Christmas movies, in the Hallmark Channel movie "The Most Wonderful Time of the Year" as a retired cop who plays matchmaker between his niece and a drifter he befriends, and in "Merry Christmas, Drake & Josh" as the judge who orders Drake and Josh to give a young girl "the best Christmas ever" or
Henry Winkler Dead at 77 – A Huge Trump Supporter and Lifelong Gun Lover. [SEP] Gus Winkler // (1893-1961) and Anna C. (1890-1960). In September 1917, at the age of 16, Winkler enlisted in the U.S. Army Ambulance Corps and served on the Western Front with the 91st Infantry Division. After his return to America, Winkler joined up with the notorious Egan's Rats gang. It was during this time that he first became associated with Fred "Killer" Burke and Bob Carey, among others. Winkler later confessed to his wife Georgette to participating in the "one-way ride" murder of auto thief Wesley Smith in July 1923. After the heart of the Egan gang went to prison for mail robbery
Henry Winkler Dead at 77 – A Huge Trump Supporter and Lifelong Gun Lover. [SEP] Fred Guttenberg // Fred Guttenberg Fred Guttenberg is an American activist against gun violence. His 14-year-old daughter Jaime Guttenberg was killed in the Stoneman Douglas High School shooting on February 14, 2018. His son, also a student at the school, ran from the shooting to meet him at a nearby store. He learned about his daughter's death from a friend who is a Coral Springs SWAT officer. Jessica McBride, for the website "Heavy" described him as "one of the strongest voices for changes to gun laws in the wake of the mass shooting." The day after the shooting, Guttenberg spoke out for gun
Henry Winkler Dead at 77 – A Huge Trump Supporter and Lifelong Gun Lover. [SEP] Fred Guttenberg // Fred Guttenberg Fred Guttenberg is an American activist against gun violence. His 14-year-old daughter Jaime Guttenberg was killed in the Stoneman Douglas High School shooting on February 14, 2018. His son, also a student at the school, ran from the shooting to meet him at a nearby store. He learned about his daughter's death from a friend who is a Coral Springs SWAT officer. Jessica McBride, for the website "Heavy" described him as "one of the strongest voices for changes to gun laws in the wake of the mass shooting." The day after the shooting, Guttenberg spoke out for gun
Henry Winkler Dead at 77 – A Huge Trump Supporter and Lifelong Gun Lover. [SEP] William Berger (actor) // his passing, speaking of his grief in various interviews. William Berger (actor) William Berger, also known as Bill Berger and Wilhelm Berger, born Wilhelm Thomas Berger (June 20, 1928 – October 2, 1993) was an Austrian American actor, mostly associated with Euro and spaghetti Westerns, as well as travel documentaries. A former roommate of Keith Richards, his earliest work was in Broadway theater, but while visiting Italy, he was cast in his first Western, "Break Up" in 1965. A series of westerns followed, including "Faccia a faccia" (1967), "Today We Kill, Tomorrow We Die!" (1968), "If You Meet Sartana Pray
The existence of a canine coronavirus vaccine casts doubt on statements that there isn’t one for humans. [SEP] Coronavirus // of a vaccine against the disease "since [the spike protein] appears to be recognized by the immune system of the host." Following the high-profile publicity of SARS outbreaks, there has been a renewed interest in coronaviruses among virologists. For many years, scientists knew about only two human coronaviruses (HCoV-229E and HCoV-OC43). The discovery of SARS-CoV added a third human coronavirus. By the end of 2004, three independent research labs reported the discovery of a fourth human coronavirus. It has been named NL63, NL, and the New Haven coronavirus by different research groups. The three labs are still arguing over which
The existence of a canine coronavirus vaccine casts doubt on statements that there isn’t one for humans. [SEP] Canine coronavirus // has been shown to cause respiratory disease in dogs. Known as canine respiratory coronavirus (CRCoV) and found to be similar to strain OC43 of bovine and human coronaviruses, it was first isolated in the United Kingdom in 2003 from lung samples of dogs and has since been found on the European mainland and in Japan. A serological study in 2006 has also shown antibodies to CRCoV to be present in dogs in Canada and the United States. However, a retrospective study in Saskatchewan found that CRCoV may have been present there as far back as 1996. Canine coronavirus Canine coronavirus
The existence of a canine coronavirus vaccine casts doubt on statements that there isn’t one for humans. [SEP] Canine coronavirus // Canine coronavirus Canine coronavirus is a virus of the family "Coronaviridae" that causes a highly contagious intestinal disease worldwide in dogs. It was discovered in 1971 in Germany during an outbreak in sentry dogs. The virus invades and replicates in the villi of the small intestine. Intestinal disease may be related to virus-induced apoptosis (programmed cell death) of cells of the epithelial mucosa of the small intestine. Canine coronavirus was originally thought to cause serious gastrointestinal disease, but now most cases are considered to be very mild or without symptoms. A more serious complication of canine coronavirus occurs when the
The existence of a canine coronavirus vaccine casts doubt on statements that there isn’t one for humans. [SEP] Vaccine // parvovirus, infectious canine hepatitis, adenovirus-2, leptospirosis, bordatella, canine parainfluenza virus, and Lyme disease, among others. Cases of veterinary vaccines used in humans have been documented, whether intentional or accidental, with some cases of resultant illness, most notably with brucellosis. However, the reporting of such cases is rare and very little has been studied about the safety and results of such practices. With the advent of aerosol vaccination in veterinary clinics for companion animals, human exposure to pathogens that are not naturally carried in humans, such as Bordetella bronchiseptica, has likely increased in recent years. In some cases, most notably rabies,
The existence of a canine coronavirus vaccine casts doubt on statements that there isn’t one for humans. [SEP] Canine coronavirus // to nine days, but sometimes for six months following infection. Symptoms include diarrhea, vomiting, and anorexia. Diagnosis is through detection of virus particles in the feces. Treatment usually only requires medication for diarrhea, but more severely affected dogs may require intravenous fluids for dehydration. Fatalities are rare. The virus is destroyed by most available disinfectants. There is a vaccine available (ATCvet code: ), and it is usually given to puppies, who are more susceptible to canine coronavirus, and to dogs that have a high risk of exposure, such as show dogs. Recently, a second type of canine coronavirus (Group II)
The existence of a canine coronavirus vaccine casts doubt on statements that there isn’t one for humans. [SEP] Canine influenza // 2015, the question of whether vaccination against the earlier strain offered protection had not been resolved. The US Department of Agriculture granted conditional approval for a canine H3N2-protective vaccine in December 2015. In March 2016, researchers reported that this strain had infected cats and suggested that it may be transmitted between them. The H3N2 virus as a stand-alone virus is deemed harmless to humans. According to the Windsor - Essex County Health Unit, it is only when the H3N2 virus strain combines with a human strain of flu, "those strains could combine to create a new virus." The possibility of
The existence of a canine coronavirus vaccine casts doubt on statements that there isn’t one for humans. [SEP] W. Ian Lipkin // cases were also the initial points of entry into the United States. During the five years after the first reported case, Lipkin worked on a study with the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and the Wadsworth Center at the New York State Department of Health (NYSDOH) to determine how a vaccine could be developed. While they had some success with the immunization of mice with prME-LPs, as of 2018, there is still no human vaccine for WNV. Chinese scientists first discovered the Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) coronavirus in February 2003, but due to initial misinterpretation of the data, the
The existence of a canine coronavirus vaccine casts doubt on statements that there isn’t one for humans. [SEP] Bovine coronavirus // nasal washes – which identifies the viral antigen. The haemagglutination inhibition test can be used to establish the strain of coronavirus. Animals should be treated symptomatically. The disease can be controlled by vaccinating the dam with a live vaccine (ATCvet code QI02) whilst she is pregnant as this provides antibodies to the virus in the colostrum. Additional management factors such as ensuring adequate colostrum intake in newborn calves, using appropriate hygiene methods and ventilation of housing reduce disease incidence. Bovine coronavirus Bovine coronavirus (BCV) is as a member of the Coronaviridae family which are enveloped, single-stranded, positive-sense RNA viruses with
The existence of a canine coronavirus vaccine casts doubt on statements that there isn’t one for humans. [SEP] DA2PPC vaccine // DA2PPC vaccine DA2PP is a multivalent vaccine for dogs that protects against the viruses indicated by the alphanumeric characters forming the acronym: D for canine distemper, A2 for canine adenovirus type 2, which offers cross-protection to canine adenovirus type 1 (the more pathogenic of the two strains) (see Canine adenovirus), the first P for canine parvovirus, and the second P for parainfluenza. Because infectious canine hepatitis is another name for canine adenovirus type 1, an H is sometimes used instead of A. In DA2PPC, the C indicates canine coronavirus. This vaccine is usually given to puppies at 8 weeks of
The existence of a canine coronavirus vaccine casts doubt on statements that there isn’t one for humans. [SEP] Canine coronavirus // dog is also infected with canine parvovirus. Coronavirus infection of the intestinal villi makes the cells more susceptible to parvovirus infection. This causes a much more severe disease than either virus can separately. However, fatal intestinal disease associated with canine coronavirus without the presence of canine parvovirus is still occasionally reported. This may be related to the high mutation rate of RNA positive stranded viruses, of which canine coronavirus is one. The incubation period is one to three days. The disease is highly contagious and is spread through the feces of infected dogs, who usually shed the virus for six
“Since the reopening of (Georgia), we’ve seen our COVID rate skyrocket by 40%.” [SEP] Access to public information in Georgia // 2% of the cases. In terms of annual evaluation, the overall response rate was the worst in 2010-11, while it improved significantly in 2012-13 - as a result of the 2012 parliamentary elections - but started to deteriorate again in 2014. Over time, the rate of provision of the requested information within the deadline established by the law improved significantly, ranging from 22% of 2010 to 75% of 2015. The assessment also found out great variations between public agencies with regard to their compliance with the law: for instance, some ministers recorded a 100% response rate, others provided a complete
“Since the reopening of (Georgia), we’ve seen our COVID rate skyrocket by 40%.” [SEP] Economy of Georgia (country) // only 3 tariff rates exist instead of previous 16. Currently 86% of tariff lines are duty-free compared to 26% in 2005. Modern Customs Clearance Zones were established and customs clearness procedures could be made starting from 15 minutes only. Modernization of system of licenses and permits resulted in decrease of number of licenses and permits and simplification of related administrative procedures. Privatization of state property – Starting from 2004, provision of transparent privatization policy was one of the important reforms of the Government of Georgia, that was addressed to denationalization of the remained state property in order to attract foreign
“Since the reopening of (Georgia), we’ve seen our COVID rate skyrocket by 40%.” [SEP] Mikheil Saakashvili // tax evasion. Due to the establishment of a functioning taxation and customs infrastructure, the state budget increased by 300% within three years. The government massively upgraded infrastructure and public services. In particular, water and power infrastructure was improved to the point where it functioned effectively, schools and hospitals were renovated, more roads were laid, and new housing developments were built. As a result, the rate of corruption in the country was drastically reduced and the business environment was improved significantly. The economy began growing and the standard of living rose. Georgia's ranking in the Corruption Perceptions Index by Transparency International
“Since the reopening of (Georgia), we’ve seen our COVID rate skyrocket by 40%.” [SEP] Stacey Abrams // Georgia students and funded a 1% low-interest loan program for students. According to TIME magazine, Abrams "can credibly boast of having single-handedly stopped the largest tax increase in Georgia history." In 2011, Abrams argued that a Republican proposal to cut income taxes while increasing a tax on cable service would lead to net increase in taxes paid by most people. Abrams performed an analysis of the bill, showed that 82% of Georgians would see net tax increases, and then left a copy of the analysis on the desk of every house legislator. Subsequently, the bill failed. As house minority leader,
“Since the reopening of (Georgia), we’ve seen our COVID rate skyrocket by 40%.” [SEP] Atlanta Georgia Temple // reached a critical mass. The leadership of the church wanted to make “every ordinance performed in the house of the Lord” available to those who sought them, without the previous restraints of distance and the expense of travel. As a direct result of this announcement, between 1999 and 2000, temples were dedicated in every state in the original Atlanta Temple district, except Arkansas and Mississippi. This dramatically decreased the number of out of state visitors to the temple. The First Presidency announced on April 4, 2009, that the temple would close on July 1, 2009, for 15–18 months of renovations.
“Since the reopening of (Georgia), we’ve seen our COVID rate skyrocket by 40%.” [SEP] COSI Columbus // per week instead of seven. Many of the museum's exhibits were announced to close permanently (though many have re-opened in stages in the years since). Two of the original exhibit areas were closed permanently (called i|o and SimZone, the spaces they formerly occupied are now Gallery 1 and Energy Explorers, respectively). Closures from 2004 that have since been reversed include Space (relocated to Level 1 in 2005, then to the Mezzanine in 2012), the original Gallery 1 (space reused as WOSU@COSI in September 2006), Adventure (re-opened as an additional-charge experience in September 2010), CityView (still off limits to the public;
“Since the reopening of (Georgia), we’ve seen our COVID rate skyrocket by 40%.” [SEP] Plug-in electric vehicles in the United States // that grants them toll-free access to all Peach Pass controlled high-occupancy toll lanes (HOT) lanes. Georgia Power, the primary utility in Atlanta, offers a time-of-use electric vehicle plan designed for plug-in charging. , the plan has about 1,500 customers statewide. For a monthly fee of , the utility lowers the overnight rate to 1.3 cents per Kilowatt hour (kWh) while raising the peak rate, from 2-7 p.m. from June through September, to 20.3 cents per kWh. There is also a shoulder rate of 6.2 cents per Kwh in between those times. The average U.S. rate is 11.88 cents per kWh.
“Since the reopening of (Georgia), we’ve seen our COVID rate skyrocket by 40%.” [SEP] SciTrek // June 2001, the State of Georgia, which had provided an annual $175,000 grant to SciTrek, threw in an additional $300,000 to help keep the museum afloat. During August 2002 the following year the Georgia Assembly allocated $425,000 to SciTrek and began a capital campaign to help raise $5 million. In January 2003, the Challenger Learning Center, a $1.7 million simulated space shuttle mission, opened to the public. In December 2003, SciTrek named technology industry executive, Scott Coleman, as president and CEO, replacing Massey, who left to join a lobbying firm. In June 2003, the Georgia Department of Education budget for
“Since the reopening of (Georgia), we’ve seen our COVID rate skyrocket by 40%.” [SEP] SciTrek // Even after suffering a 24 percent drop-off in visitors between 1993 through 1999, SciTrek decided during the 1999 fiscal year to retire its long-standing debt of $3 million. On December 1, 2000, Lewis A. Massey, former Georgia secretary of state, took over as SciTrek president and chief executive officer. By January 2001, SciTrek's finances were in dire condition, having lost $80,000 to $100,000 a month over the previous six months. The museum had a deficit for the previous three years, reaching $700,000 for fiscal 2000. The board extended a 90-day reprieve for SciTrek instead of closing it down immediately. By
“Since the reopening of (Georgia), we’ve seen our COVID rate skyrocket by 40%.” [SEP] History of the University of North Georgia // percent acceptance rate to the Medical College of Georgia, compared to the average rate of thirteen percent among other colleges in Georgia. The augmentations made to the natural science departments during the 1980s spilled over into other related areas such as engineering and mathematics. It was in this decade the NGC acquired its first computer lab and a diagnostic and tutorial laboratory. The college gained twenty more computers in 1990s for its new $80,000 language lab in Dunlap Hall. Near the end of Owen's presidency North Georgia College took another step in its scholastic cooperation with Gainesville College. By the
Philippine volcano trembles more, spews lava half-mile high. [SEP] Mayon // an increasing lava flow in the southern portion of the volcano and an increase in sulfur dioxide emission to 750 tonnes per day. Almost 460 earthquakes in the volcano were monitored. In the border of the danger zone, rumbling sounds like thunder were heard. Over 9,000 families (44,394 people) were evacuated by the Philippine government from the base of the volcano. No civilian was permitted within the 8 km danger zone, which was cordoned off by the Philippine military who actively patrolled to enforce the "no-go" rule and to ensure no damage or loss of property of those evacuated. Alert
Philippine volcano trembles more, spews lava half-mile high. [SEP] Mount Bulusan // generally known for its sudden steam-driven or phreatic explosions. It has erupted 15 times since 1885 and is considered as the 4th most active volcano in the Philippines after Mayon, Taal, and Kanlaon. There are evacuation procedures in place for parts of the peninsula; the farms nearest the volcano are to be evacuated, and many of the village schools will be closed if it is considered possible that a more destructive eruption could occur. The Philippine Institute of Volcanology and Seismology (PHIVOLCS) declared Alert Level 1 on March 19, 2006 after it recorded increased seismic unrest. On June 8, 2006,
Philippine volcano trembles more, spews lava half-mile high. [SEP] Taal Volcano // at first took for loud thunder. The illusion was heightened when great streaks of lightning were seen to illumine the southern sky. Those who investigated further, however, soon learned the truth. A huge, fan-shaped cloud of what looked like black smoke rose to a great height. It was crossed and crisscrossed with a brilliant electrical display, which the people of Manila at first took for lightning. This cloud finally shot up in the air, spread, then dissipated, and this marked the culmination of the eruption, at about 2:30 a. m. On Volcano island, the destruction was complete. It seems that
Philippine volcano trembles more, spews lava half-mile high. [SEP] Mayon // as well. The danger zone was expanded up to 9 kilometers despite remaining at Alert Level 4 and residents from the expanded danger zone were evacuated. On January 24, 2018, column of ashes and lava fountains were spewed again with an interval of 4 to 5 hours. Fire bombs and rockfalls could also be observed and sounds from the eruptions could be heard. Classes remained suspended in some places in Albay. On January 25, 2018, column of ashes and lava fountains were spewed again. Fire bombs and rockfalls could also be observed and sounds from the eruptions could be heard.
Philippine volcano trembles more, spews lava half-mile high. [SEP] 2002 Mindanao earthquake // Tectonic activity in the country includes both earthquakes and volcanic eruptions. Because of subduction of the Eurasian Plate to the west, volcanic activity occurs along the Manila Trench and the Sulu Trench, often of powerful caliber. 13 percent of recorded eruptions in the Philippines have been deadly, as the country is responsible for the world's most deaths in volcanic eruptions. Seismicity as well has been powerful: in the last 50 years, more than half of the country's major earthquakes have reached magnitude 7.0 or greater. The earliest known major shock was in 1976, killing some 8,000 people. The Mindanao event
Philippine volcano trembles more, spews lava half-mile high. [SEP] Mayon // When an oceanic plate subducts, it releases water into the overlying mantle. The water lowers the melting point of the mantle and triggers melting that generates magma. The magma rises and erupts at the surface at a volcano like Mayon. Mayon is the most active volcano in the Philippines, erupting over 47 times in the past 500 years. The first eruption for which an extended account exists was the six-day event of July 20, 1766. The most destructive eruption of Mayon occurred on February 1, 1814 (VEI=4). Lava flowed but less than the 1766 eruption. The volcano belched dark ash
Philippine volcano trembles more, spews lava half-mile high. [SEP] Mayon // whole province of Albay. By evening, lava fountains were spewed from the crater with pyroclastic flows and ash plumes. Lava bombs and rockfalls could also be observed and rumbling sounds from the eruptions could be heard. The eruption type was classified as a Strombolian eruption. On January 23, 2018, Mayon spewed 300 to 500 meter lava fountains and ash plumes with a 4 to 5 hour interval. Lava bombs and rockfalls could also be observed and sounds from the volcano could be heard. Classes in all levels, both public and private were still suspended, work in some places were suspended
Philippine volcano trembles more, spews lava half-mile high. [SEP] Camiguin de Babuyanes // volcano and a boiling spring is located near sea level on the western flank of the volcano (magas-asok). The Philippine Institute of Volcanology and Seismology (PHILVOCS) lists Camiguin de Babuyanes as one of the active volcanoes in the Philippines. All volcanoes in the Philippines are part of the Pacific ring of fire. An eruption was recorded around 1857. It was reported as phreatic and possibly partly submarine. In 1991, there were reports of volcanic activity but instrumental investigations showed no sign of unusual volcanic activity, such as intense fumarolic activity, felt earthquakes, fissuring at the volcano’s slopes, or smell of
Philippine volcano trembles more, spews lava half-mile high. [SEP] Geography of the Philippines // a series of seismic faults that produce several earthquakes per year, most of which are not felt. Many volcanoes in the country are active, the most recent eruption being that of Mount Pinatubo on Luzon in 1991. Mount Mayon is another of the active volcanoes and has the world's most perfectly shaped cone. Mayon has a violent history of 47 eruptions since 1616 and another violent eruption is currently feared. Taal Volcano, also located on Luzon, is one of the Decade Volcanoes. Most of the islands used to be covered by tropical rainforests. However, illegal logging has reduced forest cover
Philippine volcano trembles more, spews lava half-mile high. [SEP] Musuan Peak // Musuan Peak Musuan Peak or Mount Musuan , also known as Mount Calayo (, literally "Fire Mountain") is an active volcano on the island of Mindanao in the Philippines. It is south of the city of Valencia, province of Bukidnon, and southeast of Cagayan de Oro City. Musuan is a lava dome and tuff cone. It has an elevation of asl, and a base diameter of . The Philippine Institute of Volcanology and Seismology reports that Musuan erupted in 1866 and 1867, but the Smithsonian Institution's Global Volcanism Program records another eruption, possibly phreatic, that "burned everything around it." The
Nearly 2/3 quarantined by LA universities are cleared. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic in the Philippines // Secretary Duque issued on May 30 a response alert system on when schools should suspend their classes. Based on the response alert system set by the DOH, the Philippines is under response alert level four. <br> As of June 6, 2009, because of the said incident, the Commission on Higher Education (CHEd) moved the opening of classes for all colleges and universities nationwide from June 8 to June 15, 2009. CHED Chairman Emmanuel Angeles said that this postponement of classes will enable the students, especially those coming from abroad vacations, ample time to check their health and go on self-quarantine
Nearly 2/3 quarantined by LA universities are cleared. [SEP] University of California, Riverside Insectary and Quarantine Facilities // approved biological control quarantine facilities in the U.S. and the oldest non-federal facility in the nation. University of California, Riverside Insectary and Quarantine Facilities The UCR Insectary and Quarantine Facilities are where foreign insect and mite predators and parasites are confined and screened before propagation and release in California and the United States. This complex of facilities was first established in 1923 as part of the UC Citrus Experiment Station, and is currently managed by the University of California, Riverside Department of Entomology. The complex supports integrated pest management and biological control research, and includes the Insectary, Quarantine Facility, Insect
Nearly 2/3 quarantined by LA universities are cleared. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic in the Philippines by region // school was closed for ten days starting June 4. The university then became the first school in the Philippines to shut down classes due to H1N1 infection. De La Salle then recorded the highest number of flu cases in Metro Manila schools. On June 4, 2009, the confirmed cases of A(H1N1) virus rose to 29, after another De La Salle-Manila student and a staff of the Asian Development Bank (ADB) were confirmed that they were infected with the virus. ADB office in Makati City was then subjected for closure and quarantine was made to infected or possible contacted people. On
Nearly 2/3 quarantined by LA universities are cleared. [SEP] 2017 Central Luzon H5N6 outbreak // will be quarantined for 21 days. The quarantine zone was extended as far as and was also imposed in Jaen and San Isidro, Nueva Ecija. This zone was reduced back to 1 kilometer on August 31, 2017. 500 soldiers has been mobilized to aid the culling efforts. By August 25, more than 470 thousand chickens, ducks, and quails has been culled. By September 2017, more than 600 thousand birds have been culled. Through a circular dated on August 11, 2017, the Department of Agriculture imposed a temporary ban against transporting birds and poultry products from Pampanga to other parts of
Nearly 2/3 quarantined by LA universities are cleared. [SEP] Quarantine L.A. // days, it kills more than 3/4 of the population causing a major panic outbreak all around the world. The U.S. government isolates the entire affected zone. By the middle of September, the structure of the virus strain begins to evolve into a human changing virus. The infected become rotting, corpse-like creatures with an unconditional hunger for human flesh. During the day, they hide from the sun. By night, they begin to hunt like animals. All efforts to search for survivors in the area were deemed futile. On November 26, a local news channel receives an exclusive video message from J.S.O.C.
Nearly 2/3 quarantined by LA universities are cleared. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic in the Philippines by region // June 8, 2009, East Asia College of the Far Eastern University in Manila confirmed its first case which rose to three.< On June 9, 2009, Ateneo de Manila High School department reported that three of its students were tested positive of the flu. Classes were suspended immediately after. Six days after, on its sister Loyola school Ateneo de Manila University in Quezon City reported four flu infections. The same day, La Salle's sister college St. Benilde had its first flu case which eventually rose to two. On June 10, 2009, St. Andrew's School in Parañaque City suspended classes after a
Nearly 2/3 quarantined by LA universities are cleared. [SEP] Memphis Zoo // months. A new animal hospital was also finished in 1998, with separate holding and quarantine wings built on opposite ends of the building. The sick wing separates sick or injured animals from others and allows for proper recovery time. The quarantine wing is used for newly acquired animals, which are quarantined for at least 30 days upon arrival at the zoo before being introduced to their new homes. On September 18, 1998, two plaques were dedicated in memory of musician Jeff Buckley in the Memphis Zoo's Sumatran tiger exhibit. His mother chose that location because of his great love of
Nearly 2/3 quarantined by LA universities are cleared. [SEP] University of California, Riverside Insectary and Quarantine Facilities // University of California, Riverside Insectary and Quarantine Facilities The UCR Insectary and Quarantine Facilities are where foreign insect and mite predators and parasites are confined and screened before propagation and release in California and the United States. This complex of facilities was first established in 1923 as part of the UC Citrus Experiment Station, and is currently managed by the University of California, Riverside Department of Entomology. The complex supports integrated pest management and biological control research, and includes the Insectary, Quarantine Facility, Insect Preparation Facility, eight specialized greenhouses, a lathhouse, and storage. The Quarantine Facility is one of 14
Nearly 2/3 quarantined by LA universities are cleared. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic in the Philippines by region // all levels in all four campuses of the university are suspended for 10 days starting from July 16, 2008 (July 15, 2009 for XUHS) and will resume on July 27, 2009. On the same date, there are also suspected cases from Pilgrim Christian College to have the virus and are now undergoing the swab test according to Cagayan de Oro's Committee on Health and Social Services Chairman Dr. Dante Pajo. On July 17, 2009, Lourdes College and Corpus Christi School of Cagayan de Oro City suspended classes, fearing that their personnel would be exposed to infected students. Furthermore, some of
Nearly 2/3 quarantined by LA universities are cleared. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic in the Philippines by region // six are soldiers training in a local military camp from Malaybalay City, Bukidnon. The other two are confirmed in Cotabato City and Ozamis City. On June 28, 2009, DOH confirmed that all these 10 patients had fully recovered. On July 15, 2009, there are 9 confirmed cases of A(H1N1) virus from Xavier University - Ateneo de Cagayan. 8 are High School students from Xavier University - Ateneo de Cagayan High School in Pueblo de Oro and 1 is a faculty of Xavier University-Ateneo de Cagayan Main Campus. All are now undergoing confined treatment and are now recovering. All classes of
For every dollar we invest in Head Start, we get $5 to $7 back into our economy. [SEP] Saving for Education, Entrepreneurship, and Downpayment // (e.g. financial institutions, nonprofit organizations, youth development organizations, schools, and families). • Non-discriminatory to welfare participants: Eligibility for means-tested programs should not be affected by savings in SEED accounts. By initially investing $1,000 for a child at birth with a 6% rate of return will yield a resulted investment of $3,000 after 18 years. Additionally, adding $100 per year onto the base will accrue up to $5,000. By adding $50 a month to the slated $1,000 base will return more than $22,000. The financial sum of $3,000 - $22,000 can be seen as a financial catalyst to fueling a child’s
For every dollar we invest in Head Start, we get $5 to $7 back into our economy. [SEP] Head Start (program) // Start Act (2007), programs may elect to serve families whose income is between 100-130% under certain circumstances. Programs must also complete additional reporting requirements if this is appropriate for their community. The 2011 federal budget for Head Start was $8.1 billion. 85% was to be devoted to direct services and no more than 15% on administration, serving approximately one million students. Local grantees must provide a 20% cash/in-kind match. Each local grantee is required to obtain an annual financial audit, if it receives more than $500,000 in federal support. Grants are awarded by the Administration for Children and Families (ACF)
For every dollar we invest in Head Start, we get $5 to $7 back into our economy. [SEP] Head Start (program) // it is now 45 years later. We spend more than $7 billion providing Head Start to nearly 1 million children each year. And finally there is indisputable evidence about the program's effectiveness, provided by the Department of Health and Human Services: Head Start simply does not work. W. Steven Barnett, director of the National Institute for Early Education Research at Rutgers University, rebutted Klein, "Weighing all of the evidence and not just that cited by partisans on one side or the other, the most accurate conclusion is that Head Start produces modest benefits including some long-term gains for children." Fryer
For every dollar we invest in Head Start, we get $5 to $7 back into our economy. [SEP] Head Start (program) // children from birth to age three, in an effort to capitalize on research evidence that showed that the first three years are critical to children's long-term development. Programs are administered by local organizations and education agencies such as school systems. In the early years, some 700,000 children enrolled at a per-capita cost of $2,000 to $3,000 (2011 dollars). Under the full-time program, enrollment dropped to under 400,000 by the early 1970s. Enrollment reached close to 1 million children by 2011. The Head Start Policy Council makes up part of the Head Start governing body. Policy Council must be composed of
For every dollar we invest in Head Start, we get $5 to $7 back into our economy. [SEP] Invest in US // generate an $7 ROI. The Invest in US fact sheet released by the White House on the day of the summit increased that 7-to-1 ROI projection, stating that expanding early learning initiatives should provide benefits to society of around $8.60 for every $1 spent. Corporations and foundations pledging $10 million or more to support the Invest in US initiative included Disney, the J.B. and M.K. Pritzker Family Foundation, the Kresge Foundation, the George Kaiser Family Foundation, PBS and the Corporation for Public Broadcasting, the Buffett Early Childhood Fund, the Trust for Learning, Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, the David and Laura
For every dollar we invest in Head Start, we get $5 to $7 back into our economy. [SEP] Invest in US // the event, the president unveiled the Invest in US initiative, created in partnership with the First Five Years Fund. The initiative’s goal is to expand programs, research, and funding for high quality early childhood education. This public-private partnership initially generated $333 million in philanthropic commitments from corporations, foundations, and individuals (total commitments increased to just over $340 million by December 2015). More than $750 million in federal funding for early learning programs through the Preschool Development Grants and Early Head Start-Child Care (EHS-CC) Partnerships were also announced to support early learning for over 63,000 additional children across the country. Of
For every dollar we invest in Head Start, we get $5 to $7 back into our economy. [SEP] American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 // were approximately $460 billion and $1.41 trillion, respectively. The CBO estimated that ARRA increased the deficit by $200 billion for 2009, split evenly between tax cuts and additional spending, excluding any feedback effects on the economy. On February 12, 2010, the Bureau of Labor Statistics, which regularly issues economic reports, published job-loss data on a month-by-month basis since 2000. Organizing for America, a community organizing project of the Democratic National Committee, prepared a chart presenting the BLS data for the period beginning in December 2007. OFA used the chart to argue, "As a result [of the Recovery Act], job losses
For every dollar we invest in Head Start, we get $5 to $7 back into our economy. [SEP] American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 // to be $787 billion at the time of passage, later revised to $831 billion between 2009 and 2019. The ARRA's rationale was based on the Keynesian economic theory that, during recessions, the government should offset the decrease in private spending with an increase in public spending in order to save jobs and stop further economic deterioration. Since its inception, the impact of the stimulus has been a subject of disagreement. Studies on its effects have produced a range of conclusions, from strongly positive to strongly negative and all reactions in between. In 2012, the IGM Forum poll conducted by the
For every dollar we invest in Head Start, we get $5 to $7 back into our economy. [SEP] Earned income tax credit // $3,100 of investment income, would have received the maximum credit for their number of qualifying children, but because of the rule that for any claimant—whether single of married, with or without children—that investment income cannot be greater than $3,100, will instead receive zero EIC. This is an edge case, but there are income ranges and situations in which an increase of investment dollars can result in a loss of after-tax dollars. (Instead of $21,500, the phase-out for Single, Head of Household, and Qualifying Widow(er) begins at $16,450.) In normal circumstances, EIC phases out relatively slowly, at 16% or 21% depending
For every dollar we invest in Head Start, we get $5 to $7 back into our economy. [SEP] Categorical grant // given out the year before within that state. Head Start was created in 1965 as a summer school program to help low income students catch up before the start of their first year in school. Now they serve more than 1 million low income families per year in education health and encouraging parental involvement. Head Start programs are partially funded by categorical grants and in 2014 Congress gave over 500 million towards the program. Head Start categorical grant participants have to follow conditions of the grant meaning they have to make reports to the US Department of Health and Human
Plant-based egg maker gains from non-animal food buzz but lower costs key. [SEP] JUST, Inc. // beer or making soy sauce, both of which are cultured food products. They also say the end result will be better for the environment, safer for consumers and more humane to animals than conventional meat production. One of the biggest technical challenges is finding cost-effective and scalable nutrients to feed the cells to get them to multiply so that mass quantities of meat can be commercialized and sold. JUST has said it hopes to make its first commercial sale before the end of 2018. A Freedom of Information request in late 2015 revealed that the government-controlled American Egg Board (AEB)
Plant-based egg maker gains from non-animal food buzz but lower costs key. [SEP] JUST, Inc. // as "Google's main data guy," in June 2014 to build a database for the company's research into plants. Zigmond, who had been working for eight years on YouTube and Google maps, stated his plan was to "build the world’s largest plant database." The company signed chef Ben Roche in July 2014. In February 2013, the company launched its first product, Beyond Eggs. The eggs-free egg replacement is made with plant-based ingredients such as peas, sunflower lecithin, canola, and natural gums, and was marketed as being free of animal products, gluten, and cholesterol. The egg substitute was primarily marketed for the
Plant-based egg maker gains from non-animal food buzz but lower costs key. [SEP] Commodity checkoff program // egg-free vegan “Just Mayo” brand products. In this scandal, an Egg Board executive was caught discussing "putting a hit on" Hampton Creek co-founder Joshua Tetrick. Despite $4 million spent to support the retention of the checkoff, a referendum held in 2000 among hog farmers voted to eliminate the checkoff. Ann Veneman, the Secretary of Agriculture, voided the results. The Pork Board also agreed to a deal that would funnel $60 million to the NPPC to fuel prohibited lobbying activity under the guise of paying for a trademark that is no longer in use. That deal is being challenged in ongoing
Plant-based egg maker gains from non-animal food buzz but lower costs key. [SEP] Food Animal Concerns Trust // the first calls for cage-free eggs in the U.S. food supply. In 1984, FACT launched the NEST EGGS Project. The project was designed to demonstrate that farmers would make money selling eggs from uncaged hens. The Nest Eggs Project produced eggs from approximately 675,000 hens without cages on its farms. In 1986, FACT then launched the Rambling Rose Brand Veal Project. FACT developed a husbandry system for raising veal calves on pasture instead of in crates. Currently, FACT operates a Humane Farming program and a Food Safety program, while providing information to consumers. FACT's Humane Farming program provides farmers with
Plant-based egg maker gains from non-animal food buzz but lower costs key. [SEP] American Egg Board // to put a “hit” CEO Josh Tetrick of Hampton Creek, the company that produces Just Mayo brand products. In September 2015, the board was investigated regarding their actions of paid advocacy against Hampton Creek, a company marketing vegan egg substitutes and Just Mayo, a mayonnaise substitute which uses pea protein as an emulsifier in place of eggs. In September 2015, a Freedom of Information request by Ryan Shapiro had revealed a number of cases where the government-controlled American Egg Board (AEB) had engaged in a systematic paid advocacy campaign targeting Hampton Creek. The AEB paid food bloggers to post articles
Plant-based egg maker gains from non-animal food buzz but lower costs key. [SEP] Egg as food // or green pea canning liquid, also known as aquafaba, can replace egg whites in desserts such as meringues and mousses. Other egg substitutes are made from just the white of the egg for those who worry about the high cholesterol and fat content in eggs. These products usually have added vitamins and minerals, as well as vegetable-based emulsifiers and thickeners, such as xanthan gum or guar gum. These allow the product to maintain the nutrition and several culinary properties of real eggs, making possible foods such as Hollandaise sauce, custard, mayonnaise, and most baked goods with these substitutes. A medium/large
Plant-based egg maker gains from non-animal food buzz but lower costs key. [SEP] JUST, Inc. // had previously been known for his work at Compassion Over Killing (COK). Tetrick was an American entrepreneur who had worked on social campaigns as a Fulbright Scholar. Both founders had been friends since their teenage years, and, together, developed the concept of a plant-based food company stemming from problems each had noticed in the global food system. Explained Balk, "a [cheaper] plant-based egg product that had the same taste and texture as normal eggs... would meet a need consumers and food customers have that hasn’t been filled yet." The organization received $500,000 in seed funding in December 2011 from Khosla
Plant-based egg maker gains from non-animal food buzz but lower costs key. [SEP] American Egg Board // top of evolving food trends, emerging consumer needs and changing competitive landscapes. In 2008, The Egg Board tried to funnel $3 million to a private lobbying organization, attempting to overturn a California ballot measure which would prohibit the extreme confinement of farm animals.This unlawful coordination with an advocacy group was stopped by an injunction issued by a federal court. Anti-competitive marketing tactics have also been displayed by the Egg Board in their involvement to get government retailers and regulators to participate in the halting of sales for Just Mayo brand products. The USDA found emails by the Egg Board threatening
Plant-based egg maker gains from non-animal food buzz but lower costs key. [SEP] Egg, Inc. // amount of time for double revenue. When the player's farm reaches a certain value based on the egg, the player can upgrade the type of egg their farm sells to one with greater value and start over. There is also an option to "prestige". This sends the player back to the first egg, losing all cash, but keeping golden eggs and epic research. However, when the player prestiges, the player earns soul eggs which each give the player a 10% increase in their farm's earnings. Gamezebo gave the game 4 out of 5 stars praising the game as being "satisfying
Plant-based egg maker gains from non-animal food buzz but lower costs key. [SEP] Omega-3 fatty acid // soybeans. In addition to feeding chickens insects and greens, fish oils may be added to their diets to increase the omega−3 fatty acid concentrations in eggs. The addition of flax and canola seeds to the diets of chickens, both good sources of alpha-linolenic acid, increases the omega−3 content of the eggs, predominantly DHA. The addition of green algae or seaweed to the diets boosts the content of DHA and EPA, which are the forms of omega−3 approved by the FDA for medical claims. A common consumer complaint is "Omega−3 eggs can sometimes have a fishy taste if the hens are
Almost 95 percent of all (Planned Parenthood) pregnancy services were abortions. [SEP] Abortion // Inconsistent use was reported by half of those using condoms and three-quarters of those using the birth control pill; 42% of those using condoms reported failure through slipping or breakage. The Guttmacher Institute estimated that "most abortions in the United States are obtained by minority women" because minority women "have much higher rates of unintended pregnancy". An additional factor is risk to maternal or fetal health, which was cited as the primary reason for abortion in over a third of cases in some countries and as a significant factor in only a single-digit percentage of abortions in other countries. In
Almost 95 percent of all (Planned Parenthood) pregnancy services were abortions. [SEP] Planned Parenthood // clinical visits. Roughly 16% of its clients are teenagers. According to PPFA, in 2014 the organization provided 3.6million contraceptive services, 4.5million sexually transmitted infection services, about 1million cancer related services, over 1million pregnancy tests and prenatal services, over 324,000 abortion services, and over 100,000 other services, for a total of 9.5million discrete services. PPFA is well known for providing services to minorities and the poor; according to PPFA, approximately four out of five of their clients have incomes at or below 150percent of the federal poverty level. Services for men's health include STD testing and treatment, vasectomy procedures, and erectile
Almost 95 percent of all (Planned Parenthood) pregnancy services were abortions. [SEP] Responsible Parenthood and Reproductive Health Act of 2012 // pregnancy occurred too soon after the last one (57%); and they already have enough children (54%). One in ten women (13%) who had attempted an abortion revealed that this was because her pregnancy resulted from forced sex (ibid.). Thus, for these women, abortion has become a family planning method, in the absence of information on and access to any reliable means to prevent an unplanned and unwanted pregnancy". The bill, said Clara Padilla of EnGender Rights Inc, will "help reduce the number of abortions by providing increased access to information and services on modern contraceptive methods, that in turn will
Almost 95 percent of all (Planned Parenthood) pregnancy services were abortions. [SEP] Abortion in the United States // 2007, 15.8% in 2008, 17.1% in 2009 (25.2% of those at less than 9 weeks gestation). Medical abortions accounted for 32% of first-trimester abortions at Planned Parenthood clinics in the United States in 2008. Abortion is common among religiously identified women. According to the Guttmacher Institute, "more than 7 in 10 U.S. women obtaining an abortion report a religious affiliation (37% protestant, 28% Catholic, and 7% other), and 25% attend religious services at least once a month. The abortion rate for protestant women is 15 per 1,000 women, while Catholic women have a slightly higher rate, 22 per 1,000." Abortion
Almost 95 percent of all (Planned Parenthood) pregnancy services were abortions. [SEP] Pregnancy options counseling in the United States // lives. In the United States, three out of ten women have an abortion by the time they are forty-five years old. Throughout the world, about twenty to thirty million legal abortions are performed each year. Another ten to twenty million more are performed illegally. According to E Medicine Health, illegal abortions are unsafe and are responsible for thirteen percent of deaths in women. There are different requirements for women who wish to access abortion services. If someone is under eighteen, the person's state may require parental consent from one or both parents for the abortion to be carried out. In
Almost 95 percent of all (Planned Parenthood) pregnancy services were abortions. [SEP] Abortion in Mexico // in a responsible and informed manner, on the number and spacing of their children". Up until the 1990s, the Mexican government considerably expanded its family planning services to rural areas and less-developed parts of the country, reducing inequalities in family planning services and contraceptive provision. Contraceptive use doubled from 1976, but the annual rate of increase slowed down in 1992, and has come to a standstill in recent years. According to data provided by the Guttmacher Institute, in 1996, Mexico had the lowest percentage of women in Latin America who underwent an abortion procedure –1 in 40– a rate of
Almost 95 percent of all (Planned Parenthood) pregnancy services were abortions. [SEP] Family planning // meet the need for family planning services. Only 6.2 million women accessed publicly funded services from 10,700 clinics in 2015, despite an estimated 20 million women who could benefit. Clinics funded by Title X served 3.8 million of these women with access to services.In 2015, publicly funded contraceptive services helped women prevent 1.9 million unintended pregnancies; 876,100 of these would have resulted in unplanned births and 628,000 abortions. Without publicly funded contraceptive services, the rates of unintended pregnancies, unplanned births and abortions would have been 67% higher. The rates for teens would have been 102% higher. Title X funded programs
Almost 95 percent of all (Planned Parenthood) pregnancy services were abortions. [SEP] Planned Parenthood // over 600 health clinics in the U.S. It partners with organizations in 12 countries globally. The organization directly provides a variety of reproductive health services and sexual education, contributes to research in reproductive technology and advocates for the protection and expansion of reproductive rights. PPFA is the largest single provider of reproductive health services, including abortion, in the U.S. In their 2014 Annual Report, PPFA reported seeing over 2.5million patients in over 4million clinical visits and performing a total of nearly 9.5million discrete services including 324,000 abortions. Its combined annual revenue is , including approximately in government funding such as
Almost 95 percent of all (Planned Parenthood) pregnancy services were abortions. [SEP] Jason Chaffetz // showed Planned Parenthood-provided abortions going up while cancer screenings and preventative care going down. In fact, the chart was actually taken from a Web post by an anti-abortion group, Americans United for Life, and was presented in a misleading way, using questionable "dual-axis" charting. Experts in data presentation said this was an egregious example of using a chart to mislead; Alberto Cairo of the University of Miami, an expert in visual communication, said it was a "damn lie," and Andrew Gelman, professor of statistics and political science, and director of the Applied Statistics Center at Columbia University, described the graph
Almost 95 percent of all (Planned Parenthood) pregnancy services were abortions. [SEP] Family planning // or intrauterine birth control methods was about 46% (29% intrauterine, 17% hormonal). During the soviet era high quality contraceptives were difficult to obtain, and abortion became the most common way of preventing unwanted births. Since the dissolution of the Soviet Union abortion rates have fallen considerably, but they are still higher than rates in many developed countries. In the Philippines, the Responsible Parenthood and Reproductive Health Act of 2012 guarantees universal access to methods on contraception, fertility control, sexual education, and maternal care. While there is general agreement about its provisions on maternal and child health, there is great debate
Rudy Giuliani correctly tweeted that a research lab in Wuhan, China, got a $3.7 million grant from the U.S. in 2017 despite a ban on such funding. [SEP] International Agency for Research on Cancer // in the U.S. related to their work. In April 2016, internal IARC officials told its experts to not release documents or comply with the legal requests related to its review of glyphosate. In the fall of 2016, the U.S. House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform held a briefing to ask officials from the National Institutes of Health (NIH) about NIH's grant funding to the IARC. The NIH grant database showed that it has given the IARC over $1.2 million in 2016. Chaffetz asked the NIH to give his committee details of its standards for awarding grants and vetting grant
Rudy Giuliani correctly tweeted that a research lab in Wuhan, China, got a $3.7 million grant from the U.S. in 2017 despite a ban on such funding. [SEP] Lewis E. Kay // changes from the 2017 to 2018 Federal Canadian budget was a dramatic increase in scientific funding. Prime Minister Justin Trudeau's Liberal Party of Canada pledged US$3.1 billion in scientific funding over the next five years, compared to the less than US$1 billion allocated in last year's budget. Much of that funding will go to granting-councils, rather than to select research projects, as has been the case in the past, while much more will go to fundamental research than ever before. According to finance minister Bill Morneau, this budget is "the single largest investment in investigator-led fundamental research in Canadian history."
Rudy Giuliani correctly tweeted that a research lab in Wuhan, China, got a $3.7 million grant from the U.S. in 2017 despite a ban on such funding. [SEP] National Science Foundation // requested $7.373 billion for fiscal year 2013. Due to the October 1, 2013 shutdown of the Federal Government, and NSF's lapse in funding, their website was down "until further notice," but was brought back online after the US government passed their budget. In 2014, NSF awarded rapid response grants to study a chemical spill that contaminated the drinking water of about 300,000 West Virginia residents. In early 2018, it was announced that Trump would cut NSF Research Funding by 30% but quickly rescinded this due to backlash. As of May 2018, Heather Wilson, the secretary of the Air force signed
Rudy Giuliani correctly tweeted that a research lab in Wuhan, China, got a $3.7 million grant from the U.S. in 2017 despite a ban on such funding. [SEP] Bigelow Laboratory for Ocean Sciences // in federal grants for research projects, winning competitive, peer reviewed awards from all of the principal federal research granting agencies. The Laboratory’s total operating revenue (including philanthropy) has grown by 68% over the past six years to $7.9 million in the fiscal year ending June 30, 2012. Federal research grants have supported most of the Laboratory’s research operations and administrative needs in the past; education and outreach programs have relied on other sources of support, primarily contributions from individuals and private philanthropic foundations. From 2008 until his death in December 2016, the Laboratory’s executive director was Graham Shimmield, Ph.D., FRSE,
Rudy Giuliani correctly tweeted that a research lab in Wuhan, China, got a $3.7 million grant from the U.S. in 2017 despite a ban on such funding. [SEP] Beijing Genomics Institute // it provided commercial science, health, agricultural, and informatics services to global pharmaceutical companies. That year it bought Complete Genomics of Mountain View, California, a major supplier of DNA sequencing technology, for US$118 million. In the same year, the BGI was roughly valued at $820 million. In 2015, they signed a collaboration with the Zhongshan Hospital' Center for Clinical Precision Medicine in Shanghai, opened in May 2015 with a budget of ¥100 million. They are reportedly being involved as a sequencing institution in China's US$9.2-billion research project for medical care which will last for 15 years. In May 2017, was announced
Rudy Giuliani correctly tweeted that a research lab in Wuhan, China, got a $3.7 million grant from the U.S. in 2017 despite a ban on such funding. [SEP] New York Institute of Technology // cyber-enabled learning. In 2011, National Institutes of Health awarded NYIT a $1.8 million grant to study the link between heart failure and thyroid disease. In 2013, National Science Foundation awarded NYIT a three-year multimillion dollars grant to establish a Research Experience for Undergraduates (REU) site to study the security of mobile devices and wireless networks. NYIT and Peking University led a research project that was selected as one of six U.S.-China EcoPartnership programs intended to promote innovative models for collaboration between the United States and China on clean water and environmental sustainability. The team also included Wuhan University, the International
Rudy Giuliani correctly tweeted that a research lab in Wuhan, China, got a $3.7 million grant from the U.S. in 2017 despite a ban on such funding. [SEP] New York (state) // 2014, New York State announced a $50 million venture-capital fund to encourage enterprises working in biotechnology and advanced materials; according to Governor Andrew Cuomo, the seed money would facilitate entrepreneurs in bringing their research into the marketplace. On December 19, 2011, then Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg announced his choice of Cornell University and Technion-Israel Institute of Technology to build a US$2 billion graduate school of applied sciences on Roosevelt Island in Manhattan, with the goal of transforming New York City into the world's premier technology capital. Albany, Saratoga County, Rensselaer County, and the Hudson Valley, collectively recognized as eastern New
Rudy Giuliani correctly tweeted that a research lab in Wuhan, China, got a $3.7 million grant from the U.S. in 2017 despite a ban on such funding. [SEP] History of science and technology in the People's Republic of China // working in public health and medicine, family planning, environmental science, technical information, meteorology, and agriculture. In 1986 the newly established National Natural Science Foundation, explicitly modeled on the United States National Science Foundation, disbursed its first competitive awards, totaling ¥95 million, to 3,432 research projects selected from 12,000 applications. The amount of money awarded to individual projects was not large, but the precedent of competition, disregard of administrative boundaries, and expert appraisal of individual or small-group proposals was established and widely publicized. And, early in 1987, the NDSTIC announced that henceforth weapons procurement and military research and development would be
Rudy Giuliani correctly tweeted that a research lab in Wuhan, China, got a $3.7 million grant from the U.S. in 2017 despite a ban on such funding. [SEP] Manhattan // Economic Development Corporation's Early Stage Life Sciences Funding Initiative and venture capital partners, including Celgene, General Electric Ventures, and Eli Lilly, committed a minimum of US$100 million to help launch 15 to 20 ventures in life sciences and biotechnology. In 2011, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg had announced his choice of Cornell University and Technion-Israel Institute of Technology to build a US$2 billion graduate school of applied sciences on Roosevelt Island, Manhattan, with the goal of transforming New York City into the world's premier technology capital. Tourism is vital to Manhattan's economy, and the landmarks of Manhattan are the focus of
Rudy Giuliani correctly tweeted that a research lab in Wuhan, China, got a $3.7 million grant from the U.S. in 2017 despite a ban on such funding. [SEP] Stem cell laws and policy in China // the field was already world-class. Funding for stem cell research by the Chinese government is extremely limited compared to Western nations, with the Chinese Ministry of Science and Technology planning to devote between US$33 million and US$132 million on stem cell research during the next 5 years. By contrast, the state of California alone has earmarked US$3 billion to fund stem cell research at California institutions during the next decade. However, it is simply cheaper to produce goods in China than in nearly any other country, and in sophisticated sectors such as medical research, the cost advantage is likely to
U.S. vaping-related deaths rise to 54, hospitalizations to 2,506. [SEP] Electronic cigarette // increased by 1398.2% in the US. In December 2014 for instance, e-cigarette sales in the US were roughly equivalent to just 3.5% of traditional cigarette sales, but e-cigarettes represented 44% of all e-cigarette and traditional cigarette calls to US poison control centers. The accidental nicotine exposure rate in the US has since decreased by 18.9% between July 2016, when the Child Nicotine Poisoning Prevention Act of 2015, a federal law requiring child-resistant packaging for e-liquid, came into effect, and April 2017. According to a regression discontinuity design study by Govindarajan et al. (2018), the 32 states without a preexisting law
U.S. vaping-related deaths rise to 54, hospitalizations to 2,506. [SEP] Safety of electronic cigarettes // reported 3,067 exposures relating to e-cigarettes and liquid nicotine in 2015, and 3,783 in 2014. From September 1, 2010 to December 31, 2014, there were at least 5,970 e-cigarette calls to US poison control centers. Calls to US poison control centers related to e-cigarettes increased between September 2010 to February 2014, and of the total number of cigarettes and e-cigarettes calls, e-cigarette calls increased from 0.3% to 41.7%. Calls to US poison controls centers related to e-cigarette liquid poisoning increased from 1 in September 2010 to 215 for the month of February 2014. E-cigarette calls was 401 for the month
U.S. vaping-related deaths rise to 54, hospitalizations to 2,506. [SEP] Vape shop // as high as 200–400% may play a role in the prevalence of vape shops. In 2014, the Smoke-Free Alternatives Trade Association estimated that there were 35,000 vape shops in the US, more than triple the number a year earlier. There are numerous vape shops in Canada. In 2015, there were about 8,000 vape shops in the UK. In December 2015, there were 2,400 vape shops in France, 400 fewer than in March of the same year. Industry organization Fivape said the reduction was due to consolidation, not to reduced demand. Effective from 8 August 2016, under the Food and Drug
U.S. vaping-related deaths rise to 54, hospitalizations to 2,506. [SEP] Electronic cigarette // to a reported 20% from the years 2004 through 2009, dropped to 15.5% in 2016 and most recently 14% in 2017. Since the first National Health Interview Survey in 1965 smoking has declined 67%. As of 2017 the CDC reports 34 million adults are current smokers of combustible cigarettes. 47 million adults use some form of tobacco product. Large gatherings of vapers, called vape meets, take place around the US. They focus on e-cig devices, accessories, and the lifestyle that accompanies them. Vapefest, which started in 2010, is an annual show hosted by different cities. People attending these meetings are
U.S. vaping-related deaths rise to 54, hospitalizations to 2,506. [SEP] Electronic cigarette // was 1.5% in 2011 and increased to 13.4% by 2014. The percentage of electronic-cigarette lifetime use in adults in 2010 was 3.3% and increased to 8.5% by 2013, and ongoing use in 2010 was 1% and increased to 2.6% by 2013. Results in 2018 show continued growth of electronic cigarettes with concern that for combustible cigarettes most addiction begins by age 18 (nearly 90%) with 95% starting smoking by age 21, while 1% of smokers start after age 25. Between 2011 and 2018 the number of youth who have tried vaping has increased from 1.5% to 20.8% of High School
U.S. vaping-related deaths rise to 54, hospitalizations to 2,506. [SEP] Electronic cigarette // use JUUL. Vaping frequently takes place in bathroom stalls at school, and some students are able to vape in class undetected by teachers. There has been an increasing trend in vaping among adolescents. In 2011 the National Youth Tobacco Survey (NYTS) began surveying vaping use. Lifetime use among middle school aged students in 2011 was 1.4% and increased 3% by 2013. Ongoing use (use within 30 days) among middle school students in 2011 was 0.6% and increased to 3.9% by 2014. Among high school students, Lifetime use in 2011 was 4.7% and increased to 11.9% by 2013, and ongoing use
U.S. vaping-related deaths rise to 54, hospitalizations to 2,506. [SEP] Tobacco in the United States // 37.8 million cases in the United State that smoking cigarettes. This leads to serious consequence, the number of Americans live with a smoking and disease smoking-related disease is huge which more than 16 million people. However, the number of people were smoking in 2016 has decreased to 15.5 % which is 5.4% different from 2005. This also reflects the increase of smokers who had quit. The proportion of male smokers is more than women. At every 100 adults, men nearly got 4 more cases than women. On February 4, 2009, the Children's Health Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2009 was
U.S. vaping-related deaths rise to 54, hospitalizations to 2,506. [SEP] Kind Consumer // it is the other (approximately 4000) chemicals, including carcinogenic agents in the particulate phase, that lead to the well-established adverse health consequences of smoking. The World Health Organisation estimates that tobacco usage killed around 5.4 million people a year and by 2030 projections estimate this figure will rise to around 8.3 million deaths per year. It has been argued that long-term success rates of existing NRT in smoking cessation remain low, with a recent study showing that only 6.75% of smokers receiving NRT therapy attained sustained abstinence for six months, albeit twice the rate of placebo treatment. As an explanation
U.S. vaping-related deaths rise to 54, hospitalizations to 2,506. [SEP] Nicotine poisoning // calls to US poison control centers were related to children 5 years old or less. E-cigarette calls had a greater chance to report an adverse effect and a greater chance to report a moderate or major adverse effect than traditional cigarette calls. Most of the e-cigarette calls were a minor effect. From September 1, 2010 to December 31, 2014, there were at least 5,970 e-cigarette calls to US poison control centers. During the same period, the ten most frequent adverse effects to e-cigarettes and e-liquid reported to US poison control centers were vomiting (40.4%), eye irritation or pain (20.3%), nausea
U.S. vaping-related deaths rise to 54, hospitalizations to 2,506. [SEP] Nicotine poisoning // vomiting. They also noted case reports of suicides by nicotine. Where adults drank liquid containing up to 1,500 mg of nicotine they recovered (helped by vomiting), but an ingestion apparently of about 10,000 mg was fatal, as was an injection. They commented that "Serious nicotine poisoning seems normally prevented by the fact that relatively low doses of nicotine cause nausea and vomiting, which stops users from further intake." Four adults died in the US and Europe, after intentionally ingesting liquid. Two children, one in the US in 2014 and another in Israel in 2013, died after ingesting liquid nicotine. The
Prozac Failed Anorexic Women in Study [SEP] Samuel H. Wood // with their respective ability to retain elongation in response to increasing concentrations of salt. Wood then turned his attention to treating premenstrual syndrome (PMS) as well as improving pregnancy rates when using donated eggs. During a fellowship in reproductive endocrinology and infertility, Wood studied the usefulness of fluoxetine (tradename Prozac or Sarafem) for patients experiencing severe PMS. He and his research team found this medication significantly reduced behavioral and physical symptoms during the luteal phase without suffering significant side effects or treatment complications. The collaborators subsequently investigated the efficiacy of RU 486 (commonly referred to as "the abortion pill") in
Prozac Failed Anorexic Women in Study [SEP] Norethisterone // suppress menstruation in women with severe intellectual disability who were incapable of handling their own menses. A study of 118 nulliparous women treated with 5 mg/day norethisterone for a period of 2 to 30 months found that the drug was effective in producing amenorrhea in 86% of the women, with breakthrough bleeding occurring in the remaining 14%. Side effects including weight gain, hirsutism, acne, headache, nausea, and vomiting all did not appear to increase in incidence and no "disturbing side effects" were noted in any of the women. Another study of 5 mg/day norethisterone in 132 women also made no
Prozac Failed Anorexic Women in Study [SEP] Premenstrual dysphoric disorder // well-established disease entity across Europe, and noted "considerable concern that women with less severe pre-menstrual symptoms might erroneously receive a diagnosis of PMDD resulting in widespread inappropriate short and long-term use of fluoxetine." In Australia, PMDD is recognized by the Therapeutic Goods Administration. However, SSRIs are not reimbursed for PMDD under the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme. Medication may be used for women with severe and debilitating symptoms. Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are the first-line medication. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has approved four SSRIs for the treatment of PMDD: Fluoxetine (available as generic or as Prozac or Sarafem),
Prozac Failed Anorexic Women in Study [SEP] Hormone replacement therapy // alone. HRT has been more strongly associated with risk of breast cancer in women with low or normal body mass index (BMI) of less than 25, but no association has been observed in women with a high body mass index. Research has found that increased breast cancer risk applies only to those women who take progestins, but not to those taking bioidentical progesterone itself, nor to hysterectomized women who take estrogen alone. It has been suggested by some that the absence of effect in these studies could be due to selective prescription to overweight women, or to the very low
Prozac Failed Anorexic Women in Study [SEP] Progestogen-only pill // large Danish study of one million women (followed-up from January 2000 to December 2013) were published in 2016, and reported that the use of hormonal contraception, particularly amongst adolescents, was associated with a statistically significant increased risk of subsequent depression. The authors found that women on the progestogen-only pill in particular, were 34% more likely to subsequently take anti-depressants or be given a first diagnose of depression, in comparison with those not on hormonal contraception. In 2018, a similarly large nationwide cohort study in Sweden amongst women aged 12–30 (n=815,662) found an association, particularly amongst young adolescents (aged 12–19), between
Prozac Failed Anorexic Women in Study [SEP] Mammoplasia // SSRIs and galactorrhea. These side effects seem to be due to hyperprolactinemia (elevated prolactin levels) induced by these drugs, an effect that appears to be caused by serotonin-mediated inhibition of tuberoinfundibular dopaminergic neurons that inhibit prolactin secretion. It is noteworthy that the mammoplasia these drugs can cause has been found to be highly correlated with concomitant weight gain (in the 1997 study, 83% of those who experienced weight gain also experienced mammoplasia, while only 30% of those who did not experience weight gain experienced mammoplasia). The mammoplasia associated with SSRIs is reported to be reversible with drug discontinuation. SSRIs have
Prozac Failed Anorexic Women in Study [SEP] Eli Lilly and Company // human brain. It is prescribed to more than fifty-four million people worldwide. Prozac was approved by the U.S. FDA in 1987 for use in treating depression. In 2001 Lilly lost its U.S. patent protection for Prozac and in January 2002 the U.S. Supreme Court rejected Lilly's final appeal, a decision that allows other companies to make generic versions of the drug. Prozac has given rise to a number of comparably functioning therapies for the treatment of clinical depression and other central nervous system disorders such as obsessive compulsive disorder, bulimia nervosa, and panic disorders. Because of its wide appeal as
Prozac Failed Anorexic Women in Study [SEP] Anorectic // weight loss (1–2 kg) in obese men and women over a period of 8 to 12 weeks. Numerous pharmaceutical compounds are marketed as appetite suppressants. The following drugs listed as "centrally-acting antiobesity preparations" in the Anatomical Therapeutic Chemical Classification System: The following are listed as appetite depressants by MeSH, an index of medical journal articles and books. Other compounds with known appetite suppressant activity include: Anorectic An anorectic or anorexic is a drug which reduces appetite, resulting in lower food consumption, leading to weight loss. By contrast, an appetite stimulant is referred to as orexigenic. The term is (from the
Prozac Failed Anorexic Women in Study [SEP] Mammoplasia // (e.g., risperidone), metoclopramide, and domperidone and certain antidepressants like selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs). The risk appears to be less with serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) like venlafaxine. The "atypical" antidepressants mirtazapine and bupropion do not increase prolactin levels (bupropion may actually decrease prolactin levels), and hence there may be no risk with these agents. Other drugs that have been associated with mammoplasia include -penicillamine, bucillamine, neothetazone, ciclosporin, indinavir, marijuana, and cimetidine. A 1997 study found an association between the SSRIs and mammoplasia in 23 (39%) of its 59 female participants. Studies have also found associations between
Prozac Failed Anorexic Women in Study [SEP] Tamoxifen // studies suggest that taking the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) antidepressants paroxetine (Paxil), fluoxetine (Prozac), and sertraline (Zoloft) can decrease the effectiveness of tamoxifen, as these drugs compete for the CYP2D6 enzyme which is needed to metabolize tamoxifen into its active forms. A U.S. study presented at the American Society of Clinical Oncology's annual meeting in 2009 found that after two years, 7.5% of women who took only tamoxifen had a recurrence, compared with 16% who took either paroxetine, fluoxetine or sertraline, drugs considered to be the most potent CYP2D6 inhibitors. That difference translates to a 120% increase in the
The health care reform plan would set limits similar to the "socialized" system in Britain, where people are allowed to die if their treatment would cost more than $22,000. [SEP] Health care reforms proposed during the Obama administration // Medicine reported in September 2012 that approximately $750B per year in U.S. health care costs are avoidable or wasted. This included: unnecessary services ($210 billion annually); inefficient delivery of care ($130 billion); excess administrative costs ($190 billion); inflated prices ($105 billion); prevention failures ($55 billion), and fraud ($75 billion). During a June 2009 speech, President Barack Obama outlined his strategy for reform. He mentioned electronic record-keeping, preventing expensive conditions, reducing obesity, refocusing doctor incentives from quantity of care to quality, bundling payments for treatment of conditions rather than specific services, better identifying and communicating the most cost-effective treatments, and reducing
The health care reform plan would set limits similar to the "socialized" system in Britain, where people are allowed to die if their treatment would cost more than $22,000. [SEP] Health care reforms proposed during the Obama administration // die because of lack of medical care were estimated in a 1997 analysis to be nearly 100,000 per year. A study of the effects of the Massachusetts universal health care law (which took effect in 2006) found a 3% drop in mortality among people 20–64 years old - 1 death per 830 people with insurance. Other studies, just as those examining the randomized distribution of Medicaid insurance to low-income people in Oregon in 2008, found no change in death rate. The cost of insurance has been a primary motivation in the reform of the US healthcare system, and many different
The health care reform plan would set limits similar to the "socialized" system in Britain, where people are allowed to die if their treatment would cost more than $22,000. [SEP] Health care reforms proposed during the Obama administration // example, the Cleveland Clinic, considered a low-cost, best-practices hospital system, has 1,400 billing clerks to support 2,000 doctors. Further, the insurance companies have their own overhead functions and profit margins, much of which could be eliminated with a single payer system. Economist Paul Krugman estimated in 2005 that converting from the current private insurance system to a single-payer system would enable $200 billion per year in cost savings, primarily via insurance company overhead. One advocacy group estimated savings as high as $400 billion annually for 2009 and beyond. Proponents of health care reform argue that moving to a single-payer system
The health care reform plan would set limits similar to the "socialized" system in Britain, where people are allowed to die if their treatment would cost more than $22,000. [SEP] America's Healthy Future Act // in which he told medical lobbyists "[y]ou should worry about me coming after you." According to Sen. Olympia Snowe, the cost of the average employer-provided insurance plan will rise to nearly $31,000 in several years if no health care reform measures are done. The proposal specifies the creation of health insurance cooperatives, which would be member-controlled, non-profit forms of health insurance that would compete with private insurers. It does not include a public insurance plan. The co-operatives would receive $6 billion in federal funding in 2012 to start off, but they would operate independently after that point. The introduction of
The health care reform plan would set limits similar to the "socialized" system in Britain, where people are allowed to die if their treatment would cost more than $22,000. [SEP] History of health care reform in the United States // approximately $1.0 trillion. Over the same ten-year period from 2010 to 2019, the CBO estimated that the bill would reduce the number of uninsured Americans by approximately 16 million. At about the same time, the Associated Press reported that the CBO had given Congressional officials an estimate of $1.6 trillion for the cost of a companion measure being developed by the Senate Finance Committee. In response to these estimates, the Senate Finance Committee delayed action on its bill and began work on reducing the cost of the proposal to $1.0 trillion, and the debate over the Affordable Health Choices act
The health care reform plan would set limits similar to the "socialized" system in Britain, where people are allowed to die if their treatment would cost more than $22,000. [SEP] Healthcare reform in the United States // has significant underinsurance and significant impending unfunded liabilities from its aging demographic and its social insurance programs Medicare and Medicaid (Medicaid provides free long-term care to the elderly poor). The fiscal and human impact of these issues have motivated reform proposals. U.S. healthcare costs were approximately $3.2 trillion or nearly $10,000 per person on average in 2015. Major categories of expense include hospital care (32%), physician and clinical services (20%), and prescription drugs (10%). U.S. costs in 2016 were substantially higher than other OECD countries, at 17.2% GDP versus 12.4% GDP for the next most expensive country (Switzerland). For scale,
The health care reform plan would set limits similar to the "socialized" system in Britain, where people are allowed to die if their treatment would cost more than $22,000. [SEP] Healthcare reform debate in the United States // Canadian and American health care systems compared). Canada's system is largely publicly funded. In 2006, Americans spent an estimated US$6,714 per capita on health care, while Canadians spent US$3,678. This amounted to 15% percent of U.S. GDP in that year, while Canada spent 10%. A study by Harvard Medical School and the Canadian Institute for Health Information determined that some 31% of U.S. health care dollars (more than $1,000 per person per year) went to health care administrative costs. Advocates argue that shifting the U.S. to a single-payer health care system would provide universal coverage, give patients free choice of
The health care reform plan would set limits similar to the "socialized" system in Britain, where people are allowed to die if their treatment would cost more than $22,000. [SEP] Health care reforms proposed during the Obama administration // would reallocate the money currently spent on the administrative overhead required to run the hundreds of insurance companies in the U.S. to provide universal care. An often-cited study by Harvard Medical School and the Canadian Institute for Health Information determined that some 31 percent of U.S. health care dollars, or more than $1,000 per person per year, went to health care administrative costs. Other estimates are lower. One study of the billing and insurance-related (BIR) costs borne not only by insurers but also by physicians and hospitals found that BIR among insurers, physicians, and hospitals in California represented 20–22% of
The health care reform plan would set limits similar to the "socialized" system in Britain, where people are allowed to die if their treatment would cost more than $22,000. [SEP] Health care reforms proposed during the Obama administration // spent $8,233 on health per capita in 2010, two-and-a-half times more than the OECD average of $3,268 (adjusted for purchasing power parity). Following the United States were Norway and Switzerland which spent over $5,250 per capita. Americans spent more than twice as much as relatively rich European countries such as France, Sweden and the United Kingdom. The annual rate of cost increases slowed during 2010 and 2011. The causes are disputed, ranging from recession-related delays in visiting doctors to more long-term trends in moderating insurance premiums and reduced spending on structures and equipment. The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services
The health care reform plan would set limits similar to the "socialized" system in Britain, where people are allowed to die if their treatment would cost more than $22,000. [SEP] History of health care reform in the United States // credits, $2,500 for an individual and $5,000 for a family would be available to Americans regardless of income, employment or tax liability. In his plan, Senator McCain proposed the Guaranteed Access Plan which would provide federal assistance to the states to secure health insurance coverage through high-risk areas. Senator McCain also proposed the idea of an open-market competition system. This would give families the opportunity to go across state lines and buy health plans, expanding personal options for affordable coverage and force the health insurance companies to compete over the consumers’ money on an unprecedented scale. Barack Obama called for
A man killed himself over the Treasury's decision to add an African-American abolitionist's portrait to the $20 bill. [SEP] United States twenty-dollar bill // of his administration the destruction of the National Bank. In his farewell address to the nation, he cautioned the public about paper money. In a campaign called "Women on 20s", selected voters were asked to choose three of 15 female candidates to have a portrait on the $20 bill. The goal was to have a woman on the $20 bill by 2020, the centennial of the 19th Amendment which gave women the right to vote. Among the candidates on the petition were Harriet Tubman, Eleanor Roosevelt, Rosa Parks, and Wilma Mankiller, the first female chief of the Cherokee Nation. On
A man killed himself over the Treasury's decision to add an African-American abolitionist's portrait to the $20 bill. [SEP] United States twenty-dollar bill // with the 100th anniversary of Jackson's election as president, it is not clear why the portrait on the bill was switched from Grover Cleveland to Jackson. (Cleveland's portrait was moved to the new $1000 bill the same year). According to the U.S. Treasury, "Treasury Department records do not reveal the reason that portraits of these particular statesmen were chosen in preference to those of other persons of equal importance and prominence." The placement of Jackson on the $20 bill may be a historical irony; as president, he vehemently opposed both the National Bank and paper money and made the goal
A man killed himself over the Treasury's decision to add an African-American abolitionist's portrait to the $20 bill. [SEP] United States twenty-dollar bill // May 12, 2015, Tubman was announced as the winning candidate of that "grassroots" poll with more than 600,000 people surveyed and more than 118,000 choosing Tubman, followed by Roosevelt, Parks and Mankiller. On June 17, 2015, then-Treasury Secretary Jack Lew announced that a woman's portrait would be featured on a redesigned $10 bill by 2020, replacing Alexander Hamilton. However, that decision was reversed, at least in part due to Hamilton's surging popularity following the hit Broadway musical "Hamilton". On April 20, 2016, Lew officially announced that Alexander Hamilton would remain on the $10 bill, while Andrew Jackson would be replaced
A man killed himself over the Treasury's decision to add an African-American abolitionist's portrait to the $20 bill. [SEP] Federal Reserve Note // the bills in 1928, the Department of the Treasury has chosen to feature the same portraits on the bills. These portraits were decided upon in 1929 by a committee appointed by the Treasury. Originally, the committee had decided to feature U.S. presidents because they were more familiar to the public than other potential candidates. The Treasury altered this decision, however, to include three statesmen who were also well-known to the public: Alexander Hamilton (the first Secretary of the Treasury who appears on the $10 bill), Salmon P. Chase (the Secretary of the Treasury during the American Civil War who appeared
A man killed himself over the Treasury's decision to add an African-American abolitionist's portrait to the $20 bill. [SEP] United States ten-dollar bill // the bill in some way. The $10 bill was chosen because it was scheduled for a regular security redesign, a years-long process. The redesigned ten-dollar bill will be the first U.S. note to incorporate tactile features to assist those with visual disabilities. On April 20, 2016, it was announced that Alexander Hamilton would remain the primary face on the $10 bill, due in part to the sudden popularity of the first Treasury Secretary after the success of the Broadway musical [[Hamilton (musical)|"Hamilton"]]. It was simultaneously announced that [[Harriet Tubman]]'s likeness would appear on the [[United States twenty-dollar bill|$20 bill]] while
A man killed himself over the Treasury's decision to add an African-American abolitionist's portrait to the $20 bill. [SEP] Fractional currency // Bureau). Both Spinner and Clark decided to have their portrait depicted on currency, which created controversy. Republican Representative Martin R. Thayer of Pennsylvania was an outspoken critic, suggesting that the Treasury's privilege of portrait selection for currency was being abused. On 7 April 1866, led by Thayer, Congress enacted legislation specifically stating "that no portrait or likeness of any living person hereafter engraved, shall be placed upon any of the bonds, securities, notes, fractional or postal currency of the United States." On the date of passage, the plates for the 15-cent note depicting William Tecumseh Sherman and Ulysses S. Grant
A man killed himself over the Treasury's decision to add an African-American abolitionist's portrait to the $20 bill. [SEP] United States twenty-dollar bill // by Tubman on the front of the $20 bill, with Jackson appearing on the reverse. Lew simultaneously announced that the five- and ten-dollar bills would also be redesigned in the coming years and put into production in the next decade. On August 31, 2017, Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said that he would not commit to putting Tubman on the twenty-dollar bill, explaining "People have been on the bills for a long period of time. This is something we’ll consider; right now we have a lot more important issues to focus on." According to a Bureau of Engraving and Printing spokesperson,
A man killed himself over the Treasury's decision to add an African-American abolitionist's portrait to the $20 bill. [SEP] United States ten-dollar bill // Trumbull's 1805 painting of Hamilton that belongs to the portrait collection of New York City Hall. The $10 bill is unique in that it is the only denomination in circulation in which the portrait faces to the left. It also features one of two non-presidents on currently issued U.S. bills, the other being Benjamin Franklin on the $100 bill. Hamilton is also the only person not born in the continental United States or British America (he was from the West Indies) currently depicted on U.S. paper currency; three others have been depicted in the past: Albert Gallatin, Switzerland ($500 1862/63
A man killed himself over the Treasury's decision to add an African-American abolitionist's portrait to the $20 bill. [SEP] United States ten-dollar bill // Legal Tender); George Meade, Spain ($1,000 1890/91 Treasury Note); and Robert Morris, England ($1,000 1862/63 Legal Tender; $10 1878/80 Silver Certificate). In 2015, the Treasury Secretary announced that the obverse portrait of Hamilton would be replaced by the portrait of an as-yet-undecided woman, starting in 2020. However, this decision was reversed in 2016 due to the surging popularity of "Hamilton", a hit Broadway musical based on Hamilton's life. "( 7.4218 × 3.125 in ≅ 189 × 79 mm)" "(6.14 × 2.61 in ≅ 156 × 66 mm)" On June 17, 2015, Treasury Secretary [[Jack Lew]] announced that a woman's portrait
A man killed himself over the Treasury's decision to add an African-American abolitionist's portrait to the $20 bill. [SEP] Federal Reserve Note // on the now obsolete $10,000 bill), and Benjamin Franklin (a signer of the Declaration of Independence and of the Constitution, who appears on the $100 bill). In 2016, the Treasury announced a number of design changes to the $5, $10 and $20 bills; to be introduced over the next ten years. The redesigns include: After an unsuccessful attempt in the proposed Legal Tender Modernization Act of 2001, the Omnibus Appropriations Act of 2009 required that none of the funds set aside for either the Treasury or the Bureau of Engraving and Printing may be used to redesign the $1 bill.
Extracting the facts about pomegranate pills [SEP] Pomegranate ellagitannin // Pomegranate ellagitannin The pomegranate ellagitannins, which include punicalagin isomers, are ellagitannins found in the fruit, rind (peel), bark or heartwood of pomegranates ("Punica granatum"). As the chemistry of punicalagins became known it was found to be not unique to pomegranate. Punicalagins are present in numerous species of the genus "Terminalia", species "chebula" Retz. (“Fructus Chebulae”), "myriocarpa", "catappa" and citrina (tropical flowering trees historically used in African traditional medicine for antibiotic and antifungal purposes). They have also been isolated from "Cistus salvifolius" (a Mediterranean shrub) and "Combretum molle" (an African shrub). Pomegranate fruits natural phenols can be extracted with ethyl acetate
Extracting the facts about pomegranate pills [SEP] Pomegranate ellagitannin // and fractionation can afford the ellagitannin punicalagins. A few dietary supplements and nutritional ingredients are available that contain extracts of whole pomegranate and/or are standardized to punicalagins, the marker compound of pomegranate. Extracts of pomegranate are also 'Generally Recognized As Safe' (GRAS) by the United States. Pomegranate ellagitannin The pomegranate ellagitannins, which include punicalagin isomers, are ellagitannins found in the fruit, rind (peel), bark or heartwood of pomegranates ("Punica granatum"). As the chemistry of punicalagins became known it was found to be not unique to pomegranate. Punicalagins are present in numerous species of the genus "Terminalia", species "chebula" Retz. (“Fructus
Extracting the facts about pomegranate pills [SEP] POM Wonderful // fruit obtained from their own corporate orchards, and other orchards in the same area. The company employs a proprietary process in their own facilities to mechanically extract juice for various pomegranate based products. POM Wonderful makes claims in promotional materials to have spent tens of millions of dollars for research. There are two broad types of research being sponsored and published. One type regards the proposed health benefits of pomegranate juice, the other type regards chemical analysis and bio-availability of pomegranate extracts and supplements. Pomegranate juice in general is the actual subject of its published sponsored research regarding health benefits,
Extracting the facts about pomegranate pills [SEP] Pomegranate // the peel yields extracts for use in dietary supplements and food preservatives. Pomegranate ellagitannins are under preliminary research for their potential health benefits. In vitro and in vivo studies have shown that most of their observed effects are due to a group of metabolites called urolithins which result from the transformation of ellagitannins by the microbiota. Despite limited research data, manufacturers and marketers of pomegranate juice have liberally used results from preliminary research to promote products. In February 2010, the FDA issued a Warning Letter to one such manufacturer, POM Wonderful, for using published literature to make illegal claims of
Extracting the facts about pomegranate pills [SEP] Pomegranate // juice are polyphenols, including the hydrolyzable tannins called ellagitannins formed when ellagic acid and/or gallic acid binds with a carbohydrate to form pomegranate ellagitannins, also known as punicalagins. The red color of juice can be attributed to anthocyanins, such as delphinidin, cyanidin, and pelargonidin glycosides. Generally, an increase in juice pigmentation occurs during fruit ripening. The phenolic content of pomegranate juice is adversely affected by processing and pasteurization techniques. Compared to the pulp, the inedible pomegranate peel contains as much as three times the total amount of polyphenols, including condensed tannins, catechins, gallocatechins and prodelphinidins. The higher phenolic content of
Extracting the facts about pomegranate pills [SEP] POM Wonderful // tests were "helping to save human lives" and could have benefited its customers. On February 23, 2010, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) informed the company in a warning letter that POM Wonderful was "[promoting] (POM Wonderful 100% Pomegranate Juice) for conditions that cause the product to be a drug". Examples of unapproved labeling cited in the warning letter come from a section of POM's website titled "Featured Scientific Studies" which contained health claims regarding "Prostate Cancer", "Erectile Dysfunction", "Reducing LDL cholesterol", "promote(ing) a healthy heart and prostate", "reduce(ing) the length and severity of colds", "...shown to slow prostate
Extracting the facts about pomegranate pills [SEP] Ivory pomegranate // ---h". It was once believed by some scholars to have adorned a sceptre used by the high priest in Solomon's Temple. Its origin is unknown as it appeared on the antiquities market anonymously in 1979 and was smuggled out of Israel and sold to an anonymous collector in France. Based on authentication by Israel’s then leading epigrapher, Professor Nahman Avigad of Hebrew University, the Israel Museum in Jerusalem purchased it from the collector for the sum of $550,000 in 1988. It was considered the most important item of biblical antiquities in the Israel Museum’s collection. In 2004, the Investigative Committee
Extracting the facts about pomegranate pills [SEP] Pomegranate // traditional medicine, the pomegranate is frequently described as an ingredient in remedies. A serving of pomegranate arils provides 12% of the Daily Value (DV) for vitamin C, 16% DV for vitamin K and 10% DV for folate (table). Pomegranate seeds are a rich source of dietary fiber (20% DV) which is entirely contained in the edible seeds. People who choose to discard the seeds forfeit nutritional benefits conveyed by the seed fiber and micronutrients. Pomegranate seed oil contains punicic acid (65.3%), palmitic acid (4.8%), stearic acid (2.3%), oleic acid (6.3%), and linoleic acid (6.6%). The most abundant phytochemicals in pomegranate
Extracting the facts about pomegranate pills [SEP] Pomegranate juice // September 2010, the company and its principals were the subject of a false advertising complaint by the Federal Trade Commission (FTC). In May 2012, after a hearing, the administrative law judge issued an opinion upholding certain false advertising allegations in the FTC’s complaint—based on implied as opposed to express claims—and finding for Pom Wonderful on other points. Pom Wonderful's action in the U.S. District Court has been pending since May 23, 2012. Pomegranate molasses is a fruit syrup made from pomegranate juice, not sugarcane-derived molasses. It is a reduction from the juice of a tart variety of pomegranate, evaporated to
Extracting the facts about pomegranate pills [SEP] Ivory pomegranate // of Israel alleged it was a part of an antiquities fraud and was involved with other suspected archaeological forgeries such as the Jehoash Inscription. This resulted in a major investigation by the committee which determined that the artifact dated back to the 14th or 13th century B.C. and that the inscription was a modern forgery. Professor Aaron Demsky claims that there is an 80 percent certainty that the inscription is a forgery. In 2004, Israeli police filed criminal indictments against Oded Golan, accusing him of forging biblical artifacts. This was the first time a criminal court had been asked to
Indonesia doctor hits the streets to curb coronavirus. [SEP] Alimuddin Zumla // East respiratory syndrome coronavirus. Zumla is a member of the Court of Governors of the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine and is Vice Chair of the Strategic Advisory Group to the European and Developing Countries Clinical Trials Partnership On 7 April 2015 at an inaugural meeting in Cape Town, South Africa, Zumla and Markus Maeurer from Karolinska Institutet Sweden led and established a new initiative, the Host-Directed Therapies Network (HDT-NET) consortium of 64 global partners to tackle global infectious diseases threats of multi-drug resistant TB and antimicrobial resistance. Zumla has received the Weber Parkes Trust Medal and Prize
Indonesia doctor hits the streets to curb coronavirus. [SEP] Middle East respiratory syndrome // pneumonia and acute renal failure. After routine diagnostics failed to identify the causative agent, Zaki contacted Ron Fouchier, a leading virologist at the Erasmus Medical Center (EMC) in Rotterdam, the Netherlands, for advice. Fouchier sequenced the virus from a sample sent by Zaki. Fouchier used a broad-spectrum "pan-coronavirus" real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) method to test for distinguishing features of a number of known coronaviruses (such as OC43, 229R, NL63, and SARS-CoV), as well as for RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp), a gene conserved in all coronaviruses known to infect humans. While the screens for known coronaviruses were all negative, the
Indonesia doctor hits the streets to curb coronavirus. [SEP] Middle East respiratory syndrome // based on the virus's RNA obtained from the Qatari case. On 25 September 2012, the WHO announced that it was "engaged in further characterizing the novel coronavirus" and that it had "immediately alerted all its Member States about the virus and has been leading the coordination and providing guidance to health authorities and technical health agencies." The Erasmus Medical Center (EMC) in Rotterdam "tested, sequenced and identified" a sample provided to EMC virologist Ron Fouchier by Ali Mohamed Zaki in November 2012. On 8 November 2012 in an article published in the New England Journal of Medicine, Dr. Zaki and
Indonesia doctor hits the streets to curb coronavirus. [SEP] Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus // risky. Not studying it is riskier." Dr. Zaki was fired from his job at the hospital as a result of bypassing the Saudi ministry of health in his announcement and sharing his sample and findings. At their annual meeting of the World Health Assembly in May 2013, WHO chief Margaret Chan declared that intellectual property, or patents on strains of new virus, should not impede nations from protecting their citizens by limiting scientific investigations. Deputy Health Minister Ziad Memish raised concerns that scientists who held the patent for the MERS-CoV virus would not allow other scientists to use patented material
Indonesia doctor hits the streets to curb coronavirus. [SEP] Endang Rahayu Sedyaningsih // Plaza, San Diego Hills Memorial Park, Karawang, West Java. Sedyaningsih received her medical degree in 1979 from the Faculty of Medicine at the University of Indonesia, and her Master of Public Health (MPH) and Doctor of Public Health (DrPH) degrees in Social Epidemiology from Harvard School of Public Health in 1997. Sedyaningsih was married to Dr. Reanny Mamahit, an obstetrics and gynaecology specialist and Director of RSUD Tangerang (Tangerang Region Public Hospital). The couple had two sons and a daughter. Endang Rahayu Sedyaningsih Endang Rahayu Sedyaningsih (1 February 1955 – 2 May 2012) was an Indonesian physician, researcher, and author.
Indonesia doctor hits the streets to curb coronavirus. [SEP] Coronavirus // 2013, a case of contamination from human to human in France was confirmed by the French Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. In addition, cases of person-to-person transmission have been reported by the Ministry of Health in Tunisia. Two confirmed cases seem to have caught the disease from their late father, who became ill after a visit to Qatar and Saudi Arabia. By Oct. 30 2013, there were 124 cases and 52 deaths in Saudi Arabia. After the Dutch Erasmus Medical Centre sequenced the virus, the virus was given a new name, Human Corona Virus-Erasmus Medical Centre (HCoV-EMC). The final
Indonesia doctor hits the streets to curb coronavirus. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // government, in November 2013, reported a woman in Spain, who had recently traveled to Saudi Arabia for the Islamic pilgrimage, contracted the disease. On 14 April 2014, one Filipino paramedic died in the United Arab Emirates, with six other reported to be infected with the virus. On 17 April, the UAE Ministry of Health reported another fatality and four additional cases, including the Filipino medical worker who travelled to the Philippines on 16 April. On 21 April 2014, the Health Ministry of UAE reported an additional 9 cases. In April 2012, six hospital workers were diagnosed with acute respiratory failure
Indonesia doctor hits the streets to curb coronavirus. [SEP] Prita Mulyasari // fine. Seeing the huge support for Prita, Omni International Hospital dropped the civil lawsuit. The Indonesian Supreme Court in June 2012 overturned Prita's conviction and jail sentence. Prita Mulyasari Prita Mulyasari is an Indonesian housewife and mother of two who in 2008 was a patient at "Omni International Hospital" in Tangerang, west of Jakarta, for an illness that was misdiagnosed as dengue fever, whereas she actually had mumps. Her complaints about her misdiagnosis started as a private email that went viral and she was jailed after losing a civil defamation suit taken by the hospital in 2009. The case highlighted
Indonesia doctor hits the streets to curb coronavirus. [SEP] Sandrina Malakiano // about Cervical Cancer Prevention in Indonesia. She is also involved in many different forms of social activities, such as in the field of education. Sandrina married political analyst Eep Saefulloh Fatah at Masjidil Haram Mosque, in Makkah Al Mukarramah, on 6 May 2005 and is now a mother of three children. Sandrina Malakiano Sandrina Malakiano (born 24 November 1971 in Bangkok) is a former news presenter of Metro TV, an Indonesian news television channel. She was runner-up in the "Best News Presenter" category of the 2002 Asian Television Awards. Sandrina was named Best News Presenter in 2001 and 2003, and
Indonesia doctor hits the streets to curb coronavirus. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // St Thomas's Hospital. As a result of Dr Zaki's post on Pro-MED, the novel coronavirus was quickly identified. He was treated for respiratory disease and, like the first patient in Saudi Arabia, died of renal failure in October 2012. Another patient who had been in Guys and St Thomas hospital in the UK since September 2012 after visiting the Middle East died on 28 June 2013. A spokesperson for the hospital stated that "Guys and St Thomas can confirm that the patient with severe respiratory illness due to novel coronavirus (MERS-COV) sadly died on Friday 28 June, after his condition
Malawi becomes 1st nation to immunize kids against malaria. [SEP] Malawi–United States relations // the proportion of Malawian children sleeping under an insecticide-treated bed nets (ITN) (26% in 2004) was more than three times the proportion (8%) sleeping under an ITN in 2000. Key achievements in 2007 under the Presidential Malaria Initiative (PMI) included: distribution of 185,400 long-lasting insecticide-treated mosquito nets and 2,607,480 doses of a new life-saving drug delivered nationwide. Improving the quality and efficiency of basic education remain the major development challenges in the Malawi education system. USAID continues to fund activities that target quality of and access to the primary education sub-sector level, which is having a positive effect at both
Malawi becomes 1st nation to immunize kids against malaria. [SEP] Malawi // Malawi, a foundation that helps AIDS orphans in Malawi, and also financed a documentary about the hardships experienced by Malawian orphans, called "I Am Because We Are". Raising Malawi also works with the Millennium Villages Project to improve education, health care, infrastructure and agriculture in Malawi. There is a very high degree of risk for major infectious diseases, including bacterial and protozoal diarrhoea, hepatitis A, typhoid fever, malaria, plague, schistosomiasis, and rabies. Malawi has been making progress on decreasing child mortality and reducing the incidences of HIV/AIDS, malaria and other diseases; however, the country has been "performing dismally" on reducing
Malawi becomes 1st nation to immunize kids against malaria. [SEP] HIV/AIDS in Malawi // Finally, the epidemic has produced significant numbers of orphans in Malawi, leaving children vulnerable to abuse and exploitation. The first case of HIV/AIDS in Malawi was reported at Lilongwe's Kamuzu Central Hospital in 1985. President Hastings Banda, who was in power at the time, responded with several small-scale prevention initiatives and created the National AIDS Control Programme, a division of the Ministry of Health, to manage the growing epidemic. Banda believed that issues relating to sex, including HIV transmission, should not be addressed in the public sphere; during this time, it was illegal for Malawian citizens to discuss the epidemic
Malawi becomes 1st nation to immunize kids against malaria. [SEP] Malawi–United States relations // for the management of ITNs Program, and participating in other national program activities. The Blantyre Integrated Malaria Initiative (BIMI), a program of CDC MMP, is a district-wide malaria-control effort, supported jointly by the Government of Malawi, the United States Agency for International Development (USAID), and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). BIMI was established in Blantyre District, Malawi in 1998 to promote sustainable and effective strategies to manage and prevent malaria-related morbidity and mortality. Initial BIMI efforts focused on measurement of baseline data at health facilities and in the community. The information gathered was used to identify gaps
Malawi becomes 1st nation to immunize kids against malaria. [SEP] Malawi–United States relations // Prevention (CDC), Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS) operates two programs within Malawi: Global AIDS Program (GAP) and Malawi Malaria Program (MMP). The CDC GAP office started in November 2001 with an emphasis on establishing long-term working relationships with the Malawi Government, the National AIDS Commission (NAC) and the Ministry of Health (MOH). The major areas of focus during the initial phase included strengthening Voluntary Counseling and Testing (VCT), HIV surveillance, evaluation, infrastructure, and capacity-building activities. GAP Malawi supports multiple HIV surveillance activities including sentinel surveillance and the Priorities for Local AIDS Control Efforts (PLACE) survey. In partnership with
Malawi becomes 1st nation to immunize kids against malaria. [SEP] Partners In Health // in 2018, in time to serve the university’s first cohort of medical students. In early 2007, Abwenzi Pa Za Umoyo (APZU; Partners In Health in Chichewa), started treating patients and training community health workers in the southwestern corner of Malawi, one of the poorest and most densely populated countries in Africa. The Clinton-Hunter Development Initiative (CHDI) targeted Malawi as a country desperately needing a rural health project to address the devastating HIV/AIDS epidemic in the region. About 14 percent of Malawi's adult population is infected with HIV and hundreds of thousands of children have been orphaned by the disease. CHDI
Malawi becomes 1st nation to immunize kids against malaria. [SEP] Malaria // to eradicate it worldwide. In 2006, the organization Malaria No More set a public goal of eliminating malaria from Africa by 2015, and the organization plans to dissolve if that goal is accomplished. Several malaria vaccines are in clinical trials, which are intended to provide protection for children in endemic areas and reduce the speed of transmission of the disease. , The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria has distributed 230 million insecticide-treated nets intended to stop mosquito-borne transmission of malaria. The U.S.-based Clinton Foundation has worked to manage demand and stabilize prices in the artemisinin market. Other
Malawi becomes 1st nation to immunize kids against malaria. [SEP] Raising Malawi // the original announcement of building an Academy for Girls which was scrapped. Instead the schools will benefit children of all sexes and the project was completed within twelve months, six months ahead of schedule. Fifty percent of Malawi's population is under 15 years of age, making pediatric care a top priority for the country. Raising Malawi has addressed this need since 2008 by supporting the pediatric surgery program at Queen Elizabeth Central Hospital in Blantyre, the country's commercial capital. Queen Elizabeth is the largest hospital in Malawi and serves a population of 700,000 people annually. It is also a public
Malawi becomes 1st nation to immunize kids against malaria. [SEP] Health in Malawi // carry HIV, while young girls, who are perceived as sexually inexperienced, are considered "pure". Because of this perception, many people are concerned that schoolchildren in Malawi, particularly girls, are becoming exposed to the virus through sexual harassment or abuse by their instructors. The CIA World Fact Book's "country comparison to the world" ranking indicates how Malawi's health indicators compare to other countries in the world. Since the first case of HIV/AIDS in Malawi in 1985, HIV/AIDS has drastically affected Malawi's health indicators. Malawi's rankings: Malaria affects numerous aspects of social and economic life in Malawi. High malaria prevalence affects fertility,
Malawi becomes 1st nation to immunize kids against malaria. [SEP] RTS,S // Initiative and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. Its efficacy ranges from 26 to 50% in infants and young children. It is considered to be a milestone advance in the worldwide campaign against malaria. On 23 October 2015, The World Health Organization's Strategic Advisory Group of Experts on Immunization (SAGE) and the Malaria Policy Advisory Committee (MPAC) jointly recommended a pilot implementation of the vaccine in Africa. Potential malaria vaccines have been an intense area of research since the 1960s. SPf66 was tested extensively in endemic areas in the 1990s, but clinical trials showed it to be insufficiently effective. Other
“In ‘Resident Evil’ the Umbrella Corporation releases a virus that infects the people of Raccoon City. A biological research lab with the exact same logo as the Umbrella Corporation can be found in the city where the coronavirus outbreak originated.” [SEP] Resident Evil 2 // an Umbrella researcher. Raccoon City police chief Brian Irons had been bribed by Umbrella to hide evidence of the company's experiments in the outskirts of the city. He also concealed their development of the new G-virus, an agent capable of mutating a human into the ultimate bioweapon. Leon has multiple encounters with a Tyrant monster air-dropped into the Raccoon Police Department by Umbrella to seek the G-virus. Irons tries to murder Claire but is killed by a G-virus mutant in the police department. Thereupon, Claire and Sherry escape through the sewers and become separated. After splitting up with Leon, Ada
“In ‘Resident Evil’ the Umbrella Corporation releases a virus that infects the people of Raccoon City. A biological research lab with the exact same logo as the Umbrella Corporation can be found in the city where the coronavirus outbreak originated.” [SEP] Resident Evil // outbreak. The players must find an escape from the city while at the same time confronting the mad scientist William Birkin. "", set both before and after the events of the second game, follows Jill Valentine's escape from Raccoon City while being pursued by another Umbrella bio-weapon, the Nemesis-T Type. The plot concludes with the sterilization of Raccoon City by a nuclear strike. "" follows Claire's journey after escaping Raccoon City. She is captured trying to break into Umbrella's Paris facility and transported to one of their research facilities. The facility is attacked by Albert Wesker's forces and becomes also
“In ‘Resident Evil’ the Umbrella Corporation releases a virus that infects the people of Raccoon City. A biological research lab with the exact same logo as the Umbrella Corporation can be found in the city where the coronavirus outbreak originated.” [SEP] Alice (Resident Evil) // ravaged Raccoon City. In "Resident Evil: Apocalypse", Alice discovers that she has been genetically altered by exposure to the T-virus. Alice is explained to have adapted to the changes from the T-Virus, merging human characteristics and enhanced strength, speed, and agility as well as a limited degree of superhuman healing. During the evacuation of Raccoon City, Alice is released by the Umbrella employee Major Timothy Cain to combat their latest bio-weapon Nemesis. She joins survivors led by S.T.A.R.S. officer Jill Valentine. The group makes a deal with Umbrella scientist Dr. Charles Ashford to rescue his daughter, Angela Ashford, in exchange
“In ‘Resident Evil’ the Umbrella Corporation releases a virus that infects the people of Raccoon City. A biological research lab with the exact same logo as the Umbrella Corporation can be found in the city where the coronavirus outbreak originated.” [SEP] Resident Evil (film series) // monsters who escaped The Hive. They are then contacted by Dr. Charles Ashford, who claims to know of an evacuation point in the city in exchange for the rescue of his daughter Angela Ashford, who is trapped in Raccoon City. The group knows that Umbrella plans to incinerate Raccoon City to get rid of the T-Virus. On their way to rescue Angela, Nemesis attacks the team after it is commanded by Cain to kill all STARS members. After Angela's rescue, they then make their way to the evacuation helicopter with Carlos Olivera, who has been dropped into Raccoon City and
“In ‘Resident Evil’ the Umbrella Corporation releases a virus that infects the people of Raccoon City. A biological research lab with the exact same logo as the Umbrella Corporation can be found in the city where the coronavirus outbreak originated.” [SEP] Resident Evil: Operation Raccoon City // The game follows a group of elite paramilitary mercenaries for the Umbrella Corporation during the zombie outbreak in Raccoon City. The game met with a mixed critical reception, and was a commercial success, selling more than 3.2 million units. Umbrella Security Service (USS) Delta team enters the Raccoon City Underground Laboratory, where they meet up with Alpha team leader HUNK. Their mission is to assist Alpha team in stopping Dr. William Birkin from handing over his T-virus research to the U.S. military and retrieve the G-virus. On their way to Birkin's lab, they find Birkin has paid numerous Umbrella Biohazard
“In ‘Resident Evil’ the Umbrella Corporation releases a virus that infects the people of Raccoon City. A biological research lab with the exact same logo as the Umbrella Corporation can be found in the city where the coronavirus outbreak originated.” [SEP] Resident Evil (film series) // that she must return to where the nightmare began – Raccoon City, where the Umbrella Corporation has developed an airborne anti-virus which will kill every organism infected by the T-virus. In a race against time, Alice is captured by Dr. Isaacs, long thought to be dead, who reveals that the previous incarnation was a clone of his true self. Alice escapes and arrives first in Raccoon City, where she joins forces with Claire Redfield. After holding off Dr. Isaacs' undead army, Alice, Claire and a team of survivors make their way towards the Hive. They again encounter the Red Queen,
“In ‘Resident Evil’ the Umbrella Corporation releases a virus that infects the people of Raccoon City. A biological research lab with the exact same logo as the Umbrella Corporation can be found in the city where the coronavirus outbreak originated.” [SEP] Resident Evil: Apocalypse // experiments being performed there by pharmaceutical company Umbrella Corporation. The film ended as Alice and Addison were taken into custody by Umbrella. Umbrella sends a team to the Hive to investigate what happened there; the team is overrun by zombies who quickly spread to the nearby Raccoon City. Umbrella responds by quarantining the city and evacuating their personnel from it. Angela Ashford, the daughter of Umbrella researcher Dr. Charles Ashford, goes missing after her security car is involved in a collision while being extradited from the city. Meanwhile, disgraced Raccoon City Police Department Special Tactics And Rescue Squad (STARS) operative
“In ‘Resident Evil’ the Umbrella Corporation releases a virus that infects the people of Raccoon City. A biological research lab with the exact same logo as the Umbrella Corporation can be found in the city where the coronavirus outbreak originated.” [SEP] Resident Evil (film) // film received mixed reviews from critics and was a box office success, grossing more than $100 million worldwide. The film received five sequels: "" (2004), "" (2007), "" (2010), "" (2012), and "" (2016). Underneath Raccoon City exists a genetic research facility called the Hive, owned by the Umbrella Corporation. A thief steals the genetically engineered T-virus and contaminates the Hive with it. In response, the facility's artificial intelligence, the Red Queen, seals the Hive and kills everyone inside. Alice awakens in the bathroom of a deserted mansion with temporary amnesia, caused by the Red Queen having flooded the mansion
“In ‘Resident Evil’ the Umbrella Corporation releases a virus that infects the people of Raccoon City. A biological research lab with the exact same logo as the Umbrella Corporation can be found in the city where the coronavirus outbreak originated.” [SEP] Biohazard 4D-Executer // Raccoon City to locate the whereabouts of Dr. Cameron, a female scientist conducting research on a new type of virus. The film is set in the Midwestern American Raccoon City, whose citizens have been transformed into zombies after becoming infected with the T-virus, a biological weapon secretly developed by the pharmaceutical company Umbrella. A military squad – consisting of leader Claus (Masaki Aizawa) and his men Roger (Hiroto Torihata), Ed (Hideto Ebihara), Robert (Tadasuke Omizu) and Norman (Yoshiyuki Kaneko) – is sent into the city by the company. Members of the Umbrella Biohazard Countermeasure Service, a group specialized in containing
“In ‘Resident Evil’ the Umbrella Corporation releases a virus that infects the people of Raccoon City. A biological research lab with the exact same logo as the Umbrella Corporation can be found in the city where the coronavirus outbreak originated.” [SEP] Resident Evil: Apocalypse // Jill Valentine returns to her former precinct to suggest her fellow officers that they evacuate Raccoon City. Alice awakens in a deserted hospital and wanders the city in search of supplies, while Umbrella uses the only bridge out of the area to evacuate civilians. At the bridge, Valentine meets with her former partner, Sgt. Payton Wells. A zombie bites and infects Wells. In response to the virus reaching the bridge, Major Timothy Cain, leader of the Umbrella forces in Raccoon City, seals the exit and forces the residents to return to the city. After being abandoned by their employer following
HIV/AIDS among women is skyrocketing in Austin. [SEP] Human Rights Commission of Austin (Texas) // this ordinance. The Austin City Council has authorized the Commission to enforce the City of Austin's HIV/AIDS ordinance (#861211-V), which was adopted in 1986. The ordinance protects individuals who have AIDS, who are infected with HIV, who are perceived to have AIDS or be infected with HIV, or who are perceived to be a risk for any of these conditions. Also protected are individuals who associate with the individuals described above. Those individuals are protected from discrimination in employment, housing, city facilities and services, and public accommodations, including business establishments. The Austin City Council has authorized the Commission to enforce
HIV/AIDS among women is skyrocketing in Austin. [SEP] AIDS Services of Austin // by organizing events and outreach. Through this support, the message of safer sex practices and well-being can reach a larger audience while raising awareness for the Q and its mission. The Project is dedicated to strengthening women through programs and activities that provide education, connection, support, advocacy and peer leadership opportunities. The Project was founded in 1995. AIDS Walk Austin began as From All Walks of Life in 1988 and is ASA's oldest continuous fundraiser. The AIDS Walk is a 5k walk through downtown Austin, TX and includes speeches, music and remembrance. In recent years, it has also featured panels
HIV/AIDS among women is skyrocketing in Austin. [SEP] AIDS Services of Austin // AIDS Services of Austin AIDS Services of Austin (ASA) is a non-profit AIDS service organization that addresses HIV and AIDS in Central Texas. Founded in 1987, ASA is the region’s oldest and largest community-based organization addressing the local AIDS crisis. Annually, they provide direct care services to over 1,500 people and HIV prevention education to over 10,000 people. The first HIV case in Austin was reported in the summer of 1983, known at the time as GRID, or Gay-Related Immune Deficiency. In the first months of the outbreak, there was no local organization dedicated to the quickly growing crisis. In
HIV/AIDS among women is skyrocketing in Austin. [SEP] AIDS Services of Austin // Michael Barnes as the "Best Austin fashion show ever." AIDS Services of Austin AIDS Services of Austin (ASA) is a non-profit AIDS service organization that addresses HIV and AIDS in Central Texas. Founded in 1987, ASA is the region’s oldest and largest community-based organization addressing the local AIDS crisis. Annually, they provide direct care services to over 1,500 people and HIV prevention education to over 10,000 people. The first HIV case in Austin was reported in the summer of 1983, known at the time as GRID, or Gay-Related Immune Deficiency. In the first months of the outbreak, there was no
HIV/AIDS among women is skyrocketing in Austin. [SEP] Human Rights Commission of Austin (Texas) // Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) and any person who associates with them. The Austin City Council has authorized the Commission to enforce certain laws that protect individuals from difference in treatment in their employment because of their race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age (40 years or older), disability, sexual orientation, or gender identity. Those laws are Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, Chapter 21 of the Texas Labor Code, and the city's employment ordinance (#750710-A). There are very important deadlines associated with the
HIV/AIDS among women is skyrocketing in Austin. [SEP] AIDS Services of Austin // a full array of pro bono legal services to people living with HIV and AIDS. With the advent of life-prolonging antiretroviral drug therapies, people with HIV were living longer. Pervasive fear of infection remained, but people now needed long-term care and services. Fear and discrimination caused some physicians, especially dentists, to refuse medical and dental treatment to people living with HIV. In response, in 1992 ASA founded the Jack Sansing Dental Clinic, which still provides quality, affordable dental care. Case management seeks to assist persons who have difficulty accessing or remaining in primary medical care and for delivering and coordinating
HIV/AIDS among women is skyrocketing in Austin. [SEP] AIDS Services of Austin // AAP’s first newsletter, helped organize one of the first support groups for people living with HIV and AIDS and was one of ASA’s founding board members. The vast majority of the Fund is thanks to the Octopus Club, an all-volunteer, grassroots organization dedicated to making a difference through raising money for the Fund. Comprehensive Risk & Counseling Services, commonly known as the PATH Program, provides individual and couples counseling to reduce the transmission of HIV. PATH primarily serves people living with HIV and AIDS, but is also open to HIV- people who report high risk of acquiring the virus. PATH
HIV/AIDS among women is skyrocketing in Austin. [SEP] HIV/AIDS in New York City // other men in San Francisco was higher than New York's (85% in SF compared to 65% in NYC), the numbers show that the AIDS cases that came from IV drug use were also a big problem amongst women in New York. Out of the 221 AIDS cases listed in the report, 60% (725) of the AIDS cases for women in New York came as a result of IV drug use, compared to the 41% (12 of the 29 female cases) reported in San Francisco. In addition, in a letter from Lee Jones, a mayoral aide, to Mayor Koch about the
HIV/AIDS among women is skyrocketing in Austin. [SEP] AIDS Services of Austin // is a harm reduction counseling program, meaning that PATH counselors assess each individual’s readiness for change and clients guide the process by identifying problems and goals to address those problems. The Q is an Mpowerment Project of AIDS Services of Austin, making a difference in the lives of young gay, bisexual, and questioning men ages 18 – 29. The Mpowerment Project can reach large numbers of young gay/bisexual men in a cost effective manner because it is a community level intervention. Within The Q Austin space, community partners help create a safe space for Austin’s LGBTQIA communities of ALL AGES
HIV/AIDS among women is skyrocketing in Austin. [SEP] AIDS Services of Austin // a July 1988 issue of The Advocate, a national news magazine reporting on the LGBT community. Another volunteer organization, the Octopus Club, was organized by Lew Aldridge in 1987. The Octopus Club raises funds through events such as ArtErotica, OctoTea Dance and the Oscar Parties for ASA’s Paul Kirby Emergency Relief Fund. In the fall of 1986, the Texas Commissioner of Health proposed quarantining gay men suspected of having HIV and AIDS. Glen Maxey from the Austin AIDS Project organized medical experts to testify before the Texas Legislature against quarantine. On the day the quarantine proposal was withdrawn, Maxey stepped
Calorie counts on menus used by women, wealthier diners in Seattle area. [SEP] Lulu Hunt Peters // on the word's pronunciation. She explains the importance of balancing food intake and energy used, and suggests a number of exercises, supported with simple cartoons. She explains in her book that "hereafter you are going to eat calories of food. Instead of saying one slice of bread, or a piece of pie, you will say 100 calories of bread, 350 calories of pie". She shows women how to calculate their ideal weight with a formula. Her book included estimates of food portions that would contain 100 calories, based on research in a variety of technical publications that were not available
Calorie counts on menus used by women, wealthier diners in Seattle area. [SEP] Diet and obesity // number of calories which women consumed in the United States increased by 335 calories per day (1542 calories in 1971 and 1877 calories in 2000). For men, the average increase was 168 calories per day (2450 calories in 1971 and 2618 calories in 2000). Most of these extra calories came from an increase in carbohydrate consumption, though there was also an increase in fat consumption over the same time period. The increase in caloric consumption is attributed primarily to the "consumption of food away from home; increased energy consumption from salty snacks, soft drinks, and pizza; and increased portion sizes".
Calorie counts on menus used by women, wealthier diners in Seattle area. [SEP] Foodservice // consumers are aware of the calorie counts at full-service restaurants 20% choose lower calorie options and consumers also reduce their calorie intake over the rest of the day. Eating one meal away from home each week translates to 2 extra pounds each year or a daily increase of 134 calories and a decrease in diet quality by 2 points on the Healthy Eating Index. In addition; the likelihood of contracting a food-borne illness (such as E. coli, hepatitis B, H. pylori, listeria, salmonella, norovirus and typhoid) is greatly increased due to food not being kept below 40 degrees Fahrenheit or
Calorie counts on menus used by women, wealthier diners in Seattle area. [SEP] Calorie count laws // to restaurants that are part of chains with at least 15 establishments doing business nationally. Calorie count laws Calorie count laws are a type of law that require restaurants (typically only larger restaurant chains) to post food energy and nutritional information on the food served on menus. Studies of consumer behavior have shown that for some fast-food chains consumers reduce calorie consumption but at other chains do not. In response to federal regulation in the United States, some restaurant chains have modified certain items to reduce calories, or introduced new menu items as lower-calorie alternatives. The first U.S. menu item
Calorie counts on menus used by women, wealthier diners in Seattle area. [SEP] Calorie count laws // Calorie count laws Calorie count laws are a type of law that require restaurants (typically only larger restaurant chains) to post food energy and nutritional information on the food served on menus. Studies of consumer behavior have shown that for some fast-food chains consumers reduce calorie consumption but at other chains do not. In response to federal regulation in the United States, some restaurant chains have modified certain items to reduce calories, or introduced new menu items as lower-calorie alternatives. The first U.S. menu item calorie labeling law was enacted in 2008 in New York City. California was the first
Calorie counts on menus used by women, wealthier diners in Seattle area. [SEP] The Cheesecake Factory // of saturated fat. The United States Department of Agriculture's Center for Nutrition Policy and Promotion states in its dietary guidelines that a typical female adult should consume about 2,000 calories (males plus 500) and no more than 10% of saturated fat per day. In an attempt to offer healthier, lower calorie meal options, The Cheesecake Factory created a "Skinnylicious" menu that features a variety of cocktails, salads, appetizers, and specialty dishes such as lemon-garlic shrimp and grilled salmon. The Cheesecake Factory The Cheesecake Factory, Inc. is a restaurant company and distributor of cheesecakes based in the United States. The company
Calorie counts on menus used by women, wealthier diners in Seattle area. [SEP] Food choice // seems that women may consume less in order to exude a feminine identity; in a second study, women who were made to believe that a male companion viewed them as masculine ate less than women who believed they were perceived as feminine. The weight of eating companions may also influence the volume of food consumed. Obese individuals have been found to eat significantly more in the presence of other obese individuals compared to normal-weight others, while normal-weight individuals' eating appears unaffected by the weight of eating companions. Awareness Although the presence and behavior of others can have a strong impact
Calorie counts on menus used by women, wealthier diners in Seattle area. [SEP] Rebecca G. Howard // good entrepreneur, changing the name of the establishment in 1862 to "Pacific Hotel and Restaurant", which emphasized that lodgings were also available to travelers. Realizing her establishment's popularity would bear some increase in charges, in May, 1863 she changed her 'meal at any time' food policy to "Meals after Eight o'clock extra". In addition, she began advertising in the Seattle Gazette as well as the local Olympia paper in 1864. As a proprietor, Rebecca Howard initially allowed patrons to call her "Aunt Becky". She was reportedly good humored and possessed a sharp wit. Local children knew her to be generous,
Calorie counts on menus used by women, wealthier diners in Seattle area. [SEP] The 100-Mile Diet // and Skagit County in Washington State. Their exceptions to this rule include meals eaten while traveling, meals prepared by friends, and business lunches. Their initial month was expensive as they scoured grocery stores for whatever they could find. In the second chapter, Smith describes her and MacKinnon as an unwed urban couple in their early thirties with no children and living in a rented apartment. They recount how eating impacted their relationship before and after the diet, the anonymity of prepackaged foods, the traceability of their diet, and the diets of the Coast Salish. The farmers' market opens in May
Calorie counts on menus used by women, wealthier diners in Seattle area. [SEP] Lulu Hunt Peters // to the general reader. She also indicates how many calories someone should eat per pound of ideal body weight, to keep the ideal weight that her system suggests (similar to body mass index). She paid less attention to issues of what sorts of foods a person should eat. Under her system, a person of Peters' height could eat whatever she wanted, as long as she maintained a strict diet of 1,200 calories a day. However, she warned against eating candy, because she thought that women who ate a little candy would binge on it. In the 19th century and the
AIDS center at UAB getting grant for HIV research. [SEP] University of Florida College of Medicine-Jacksonville // Daniel R. Wilson, M.D., Ph.D. The UF Health Science Center Jacksonville received $26.4 million in external support for research and training in fiscal year 2011/2012 and currently has more than 212 ongoing externally funded studies. Over the past seven years, external research funding at UFHSCJ has increased more than 350 percent. Federal-sponsored studies account for 65 percent of the UFCOM-J research awards. UF Center for HIV/AIDS Research, Education and Service (UF CARES) is the largest receipient of extramural Federal funding at University of Florida College of Medicine, Jacksonville. In addition to providing exceptional care it is an NIH funded center
AIDS center at UAB getting grant for HIV research. [SEP] Michael Saag // Michael Saag Michael S. Saag (born ) is a physician and prominent HIV/AIDS researcher at the University of Alabama at Birmingham (UAB). He holds the Jim Straley Chair in AIDS Research, is Director of the Division of Infectious Disease and of the William C. Gorgas Center for Geographic Medicine, and Director of the Center for AIDS Research. He is also the founder of the 1917 Clinic, a comprehensive AIDS treatment and research center at UAB Saag is a frequent lecturer at AIDS conferences around the world and is credited with performing pioneering clinical trials for several antiretroviral drugs now in
AIDS center at UAB getting grant for HIV research. [SEP] University of Florida College of Medicine-Jacksonville // for HIV research. UF CARES is the largest center for HIV in North Florida. The UF College of Medicine - Jacksonville is an active participant in the Clinical and Translational Science Award (CTSA) granted to the University of Florida by the National Institutes of Health. A research facility was opened in 2007 on the Jacksonville campus. The opening of the research laboratory facility resulted in an increase of research scientists joining faculty by 150 percent. The college's Dean's Office offers two internal grant competitions annually, one for Jacksonville faculty, and the other for Jacksonville residents and fellows. In 2012, the
AIDS center at UAB getting grant for HIV research. [SEP] University of Massachusetts Medical School // with HIV. Federal and private research grants and contracts at UMMS rose from about $2 million in 1977 to more than $307.6 million in 2011, putting UMMS in the top third of all research-based medical schools. UMMS currently supports more than 260 investigators working on advancements in the treatment of disease and injury. The school's portfolio of commercial ventures and intellectual property was catapulted by the success of UMMS licenses and patents (including intellectual property related to RNAi gene-silencing technology and drug and vaccine development), UMass ranked eighth in the nation in generating income from the licensing of faculty-derived discoveries
AIDS center at UAB getting grant for HIV research. [SEP] Beatrice Hahn // of Alabama at Birmingham (UAB) and established her own laboratory. She was a co-director of the Center for AIDS Research at UAB from 2003 to 2011. In 2011, Hahn joined the faculty of the Perelman School of Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania. Hahn met Robert Gallo when she was a student at the Technical University of Munich. He was a virologist and a researcher at the National Cancer Institute in Bethesda, Maryland. Most of his research was focused on leukemia, the disease that had taken his sister's life at an early age. One of the main areas of interest
AIDS center at UAB getting grant for HIV research. [SEP] HIV/AIDS in Australia // clinical trials. It also prepares the annual national surveillance reports on the disease. In 2006 the Centre received just under 4 million in Commonwealth government funding, as well as several million dollars of funding from both public and pharmaceutical industry sources. Three other research centres are also directly Commonwealth funded to investigate different facets of HIV/AIDS: the National Centre in HIV Social Research (NCHSR); the Australian Centre for HIV and Hepatitis Virology Research (ACH) (formerly the National Centre for HIV Virology Research); and the Australian Research Centre in Sex, Health and Society (ARCSHS). Research has identified anal mucus as a
AIDS center at UAB getting grant for HIV research. [SEP] Arkansas Children's Hospital // prevent illnesses and diseases in children. ACRI has about 120 scientists on staff. Recent grants include an $11.5 million award from the National Institutes of Health to establish a pediatric research center dedicated to translational research. In 2016, Arkansas Children's Research Institute received a $9.4 million award from the National Institutes of Health's Institutional Development Award program to create a center to study childhood obesity: the Center of Biomedical Research Excellence (COBRE). The grant will provide the funds over five years to support COBRE research. Running for over 35 years, Arkansas Children's Foundation has funded Arkansas Children's Hospital in research
AIDS center at UAB getting grant for HIV research. [SEP] Emory's Hope Clinic // the NIH, CDC, biomedical industry, Georgia Research Alliance, industry resources, and philanthropic contributions (including the AIDS Vaccine 200 annual bike ride). The Emory-CDC HIV/AIDS Clinical Trials Unit (CTU) and the Vaccine and Treatment Evaluation Unit (VTEU) are two major NIH grants awarded to The Hope Clinic. In 2013 The Hope Clinic moved to its current location at 500 Irvin Court, Suite 200 in Decatur, Georgia. We have grown to 65 employees and now occupy a much larger space that includes 8 exam rooms, an Investigational Drug Pharmacy, a large conference room and a large space dedicated to our research and
AIDS center at UAB getting grant for HIV research. [SEP] Black AIDS Institute // MS; Los Angeles, CA; New Orleans, LA; Oakland, CA; Philadelphia, PA; San Francisco, CA; and Washington D.C. The Institute has created a training program called the African American HIV University, that trains advocates that "work with churches, community centers, black businesses and the black media to influence policy, funding and research." This training is part of a two-year fellowship, that includes a 30-day training with the AIDS Treatment College, as well as four internships completed in different cities around the country. On their website, the Institute has listed Broadway Cares/Equity Fights AIDS, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the
AIDS center at UAB getting grant for HIV research. [SEP] Duke University Human Vaccine Institute // Regional Center for Excellence in Emerging Infections and Biodefense grant from the National Institutes of Health (NIH). In 2003, the NIH funded the construction of the Duke Global Health Research Building, an infectious disease research facility and a Regional Biocontainment Laboratory (RBL). Completed in 2006, this building is designed to support basic research necessary to develop drugs, diagnostics, and vaccines for emerging infections and biodefense, and to provide surge capacity in the event of a public health emergency. In 2005, DHVI became the home to the NIAID funded Center for HIV/AIDS Vaccine Immunology, a $350M grant to speed the development
Facebook post Says researchers found a “fabric that kills coronaviruses” [SEP] Coronaviridae // selection and packaging is critical for developing antiviral strategies and viral expression vectors based on the coronavirus genome. Coronaviridae Coronaviridae is a family of enveloped, positive-sense, single-stranded RNA viruses. The viral genome is 26–32 kb in length. Virions are spherical, 120–160 nm across ("Coronavirinae"), bacilliform, 170–200 by 75–88 nm ("Bafinivirus") or found as a mixture of both, with bacilliform particles characteristically bent into crescents ("Torovirus"). The particles are typically decorated with large (~20 nm), club- or petal-shaped surface projections (the “peplomers” or “spikes”), which in electron micrographs of spherical particles create an image reminiscent of the solar corona. Members of
Facebook post Says researchers found a “fabric that kills coronaviruses” [SEP] Middle East respiratory syndrome // pneumonia and acute renal failure. After routine diagnostics failed to identify the causative agent, Zaki contacted Ron Fouchier, a leading virologist at the Erasmus Medical Center (EMC) in Rotterdam, the Netherlands, for advice. Fouchier sequenced the virus from a sample sent by Zaki. Fouchier used a broad-spectrum "pan-coronavirus" real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) method to test for distinguishing features of a number of known coronaviruses (such as OC43, 229R, NL63, and SARS-CoV), as well as for RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp), a gene conserved in all coronaviruses known to infect humans. While the screens for known coronaviruses were all negative, the
Facebook post Says researchers found a “fabric that kills coronaviruses” [SEP] Coronavirus // of a vaccine against the disease "since [the spike protein] appears to be recognized by the immune system of the host." Following the high-profile publicity of SARS outbreaks, there has been a renewed interest in coronaviruses among virologists. For many years, scientists knew about only two human coronaviruses (HCoV-229E and HCoV-OC43). The discovery of SARS-CoV added a third human coronavirus. By the end of 2004, three independent research labs reported the discovery of a fourth human coronavirus. It has been named NL63, NL, and the New Haven coronavirus by different research groups. The three labs are still arguing over which
Facebook post Says researchers found a “fabric that kills coronaviruses” [SEP] Bovine coronavirus // nasal washes – which identifies the viral antigen. The haemagglutination inhibition test can be used to establish the strain of coronavirus. Animals should be treated symptomatically. The disease can be controlled by vaccinating the dam with a live vaccine (ATCvet code QI02) whilst she is pregnant as this provides antibodies to the virus in the colostrum. Additional management factors such as ensuring adequate colostrum intake in newborn calves, using appropriate hygiene methods and ventilation of housing reduce disease incidence. Bovine coronavirus Bovine coronavirus (BCV) is as a member of the Coronaviridae family which are enveloped, single-stranded, positive-sense RNA viruses with
Facebook post Says researchers found a “fabric that kills coronaviruses” [SEP] SARS coronavirus // mapping the genetic sequence of a coronavirus believed to be linked to SARS. The team was led by Dr. Marco Marra and worked in collaboration with the British Columbia Centre for Disease Control and the National Microbiology Laboratory in Winnipeg, Manitoba, using samples from infected patients in Toronto. The map, hailed by the WHO as an important step forward in fighting SARS, is shared with scientists worldwide via the GSC website (see below). Dr. Donald Low of Mount Sinai Hospital in Toronto described the discovery as having been made with "unprecedented speed". The sequence of the SARS coronavirus has since
Facebook post Says researchers found a “fabric that kills coronaviruses” [SEP] Coronavirus 3' stem-loop II-like motif (s2m) // recombination events. Other RNA families identified in the coronavirus include the SL-III cis-acting replication element (CRE), the coronavirus frameshifting stimulation element, the coronavirus packaging signal and the coronavirus 3' UTR pseudoknot. Functionally during host invasion by viral RNA, it appears that s2m first binds one or more proteins as a mechanism for the viral RNA to substitute host protein synthesis. This has also been seen in s2m RNA macromolecular substitution of ribosomal RNA folds. The s2m RNA element are also effective targets for the design of anti-viral drugs. Coronavirus 3' stem-loop II-like motif (s2m) The Coronavirus 3' stem-loop II-like motif
Facebook post Says researchers found a “fabric that kills coronaviruses” [SEP] Coronavirus // stop codon. This is known as a "nested" transcript. When the mRNA transcript only encodes one gene, it is "monocistronic". A coronavirus non-structural protein provides extra fidelity to replication because it confers a proofreading function, which is lacking in RNA-dependent RNA polymerase enzymes alone. The RNA genome is replicated and a long polyprotein is formed, where all of the proteins are attached. Coronaviruses have a non-structural protein - a protease - which is able to separate the proteins in the chain. This is a form of genetic economy for the virus, allowing it to encode the greatest number of genes
Facebook post Says researchers found a “fabric that kills coronaviruses” [SEP] SARS coronavirus // as human SARS victims. In late May 2003, studies from samples of wild animals sold as food in the local market in Guangdong, China, found the SARS coronavirus could be isolated from masked palm civets ("Paguma" sp.), but the animals did not always show clinical signs. The preliminary conclusion was the SARS virus crossed the xenographic barrier from palm civet to humans, and more than 10,000 masked palm civets were killed in Guangdong Province. Virus was also later found in raccoon dogs ("Nyctereuteus" sp.), ferret badgers ("Melogale" spp.), and domestic cats. In 2005, two studies identified a number of SARS-like
Facebook post Says researchers found a “fabric that kills coronaviruses” [SEP] Coronaviridae // Coronaviridae Coronaviridae is a family of enveloped, positive-sense, single-stranded RNA viruses. The viral genome is 26–32 kb in length. Virions are spherical, 120–160 nm across ("Coronavirinae"), bacilliform, 170–200 by 75–88 nm ("Bafinivirus") or found as a mixture of both, with bacilliform particles characteristically bent into crescents ("Torovirus"). The particles are typically decorated with large (~20 nm), club- or petal-shaped surface projections (the “peplomers” or “spikes”), which in electron micrographs of spherical particles create an image reminiscent of the solar corona. Members of this family are thus referred to as "coronaviruses", as are members of the subfamily "Coronavirinae". The 5' and
Facebook post Says researchers found a “fabric that kills coronaviruses” [SEP] Feline coronavirus // unknown. The human CoV SARS binds to the Angiotensin-converting enzyme ACE II. The ACE II is also called" 'L-SIGN (liver/lymph node-specific intracellular adhesion molecules-3 grabbing non-integrin). Coronaviruses bind to macrophages via the Dendritic Cell-Specific Intercellular adhesion molecule-3-Grabbing N"'on-integrin (DC-SIGN) which is a trans-membrane protein encoded in humans by the "CD209" gene. ACE and DC-SIGN are two trans-membrane retrovirus receptors (mannose receptors) which can bind" 'the plant lectins C-type mannose binding" '. Aminopeptidase N has the same ability to interact with plant lectins C-type mannose-binding and also serves as a receptor for a retrovirus. Angiotensin-converting enzyme ACE, aminopetidase A and aminopeptidase
Trump administration signals compromise on gas mileage rules. [SEP] Environmental policy of the Donald Trump administration // undo the Obama administration's auto fuel efficiency and emissions standards. Within days of taking office he signed executive orders to approve two controversial oil pipelines and to require federal review of the Clean Water Rule and the Clean Power Plan. Trump is calling for more drilling in national parks and has announced plans to open up more federal land for energy development. Trump's Department of the Interior has announced plans to allow drilling in nearly all U.S. waters, the largest expansion of offshore oil and gas leasing ever proposed. The administration has been charged with re-writing EPA pollution- control policies
Trump administration signals compromise on gas mileage rules. [SEP] Environmental policy of the Donald Trump administration // jobs first by not supporting climate change policies that place the economy at risk. The Obama administration 2012 fuel economy plan called for a doubling in fuel economy for new cars and light trucks, to more than 50 miles per gallon by 2025, equivalent to a real-world average of 36 m.p.g. In April 2018, saying "those standards are inappropriate and should be revised,” Scott Pruitt announced that the EPA was rolling back the Obama administration's fuel efficiency and emissions standards. Democratic Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer responded to the announcement saying: The state of California has a waiver that allows
Trump administration signals compromise on gas mileage rules. [SEP] Climate change policy of the United States // Air Act. Additionally, the administration established Corporate Average Fuel Economy (CAFE) standards under the Energy Policy and Conservation Act. In August 2012, the administration expanded on these standards for model years 2017 through 2025 vehicles, issuing final rules and standards that were to result in a 163 gram emission per mile by model year 2025. During his campaign, Donald Trump made promises to roll back some of the Obama-era regulations enacted with the purpose of combating climate change. He has questioned if climate change is real and has indicated that he will focus his efforts on other causes as president.
Trump administration signals compromise on gas mileage rules. [SEP] Presidency of Donald Trump // oil spill. The EPA sought to repeal a regulation which required oil and gas companies to restrict emissions of methane, a potent greenhouse gas. In July 2018, the EPA granted a loophole allowing a small set of trucking companies to skirt emissions rules, allowing the firms to produce trucks that emit 40 to 55 times the air pollutants of other new trucks. In March 2017, Trump issued an executive order reversing multiple Obama administration policies meant to tackle climate change. Trump said he was "putting an end to the war on coal", removing "job-killing regulations" and "restrictions on American energy"
Trump administration signals compromise on gas mileage rules. [SEP] Corporate average fuel economy // of the goals set in 2012 under President Obama. The ruling would freeze the fuel economy goals to the 2021 target of 37 mpg, would halt requirements on the production of hybrid and electric cars, and would eliminate the legal waiver that allows states like California to set more stringent standards. The EPA acting administrator Andrew R. Wheeler and the Transportation Secretary Elaine Chao issued a joint statement stating that the rule change was needed as the current rules "impose significant costs on American consumers and eliminate jobs", while the new rules "give consumers greater access to safer, more affordable
Trump administration signals compromise on gas mileage rules. [SEP] Presidency of Donald Trump // about climate change. In October 2018, the EPA disbanded a 20-expert panel on pollution which advised the EPA on the appropriate threshold levels to set for air quality standards. In February 2017, Trump and Congress removed a rule that required oil, gas and mining firms to disclose how much they paid foreign governments. The industries claimed the rule gave global rivals a competitive edge, although EU, Canadian, Russian, Chinese and Brazilian energy firms are bound by similar requirements. The administration withdrew from the international Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI). EITI was aimed at fighting corruption by requiring the disclosure of
Trump administration signals compromise on gas mileage rules. [SEP] Environmental policy of the Donald Trump administration // and methane, using instruments placed in satellites and aircraft. The information provided by the CMS can be used to verify the national emission cuts agreed to in the Paris climate accords. CMS has also supported other research projects including providing information that has helped countries assess their carbon emissions from deforestation and forest degradation. In April 2018, President Trump ended funding for the CMS. In September 2018, the Trump administration submitted plans to roll back Obama-era legislation designed to reduce oil and gas industry leaks of methane gas. The proposed new rule would put an additional 380,000 tons of methane
Trump administration signals compromise on gas mileage rules. [SEP] Environmental policy of the Donald Trump administration // In February 2017, Trump signed a resolution overturning President Obama's Stream Protection Rule, after being in effect for less than 30 days. When he signed the resolution repealing the rule, Trump predicted that striking down the rule would save thousands of U.S. mining-related jobs. The administration has also proposed a rollback on the Obama administration's extension of federal jurisdiction over lands protected by the Clean Water Act in attempts to reduce water pollution in areas surrounding toxic waste facilities. On February 28, 2017, President Trump enacted an executive order to allow the Administrator of the EPA to revise or rescind
Trump administration signals compromise on gas mileage rules. [SEP] United States withdrawal from the Paris Agreement // of automobiles were under no specific restrictions under the Accord and that nothing had changed. Even if Trump loosened other restrictions on the car industry that allowed for the production of less environmental cars, such cars still needed to conform to standards before they could be exported to other continents or even certain states. Jason Bordoff, energy-policy expert at Columbia University, agreed that withdrawing would make no difference to the economy, arguing that it would be determined by market conditions like the price of oil and gas. At the same time, airlines have been spending billions on seeking more fuel
Trump administration signals compromise on gas mileage rules. [SEP] Margo T. Oge // emissions reductions through 2025. The regulation will require automakers in the US market to double the fleet-wide fuel efficiency of their 2025 models to 54.5 mpg. The deal also requires automakers to cut greenhouse gas emissions from their 2025 models in half from 2010 levels. The EPA estimates that, by 2025, these rules will double fuel efficiency of cars and trucks, reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 50 percent and save consumers $1.7 trillion in fuel costs. In September 2014, Economist ranked these standards as the world’s sixth most effective measure in slowing climate change. The regulations require a mid term
Music May Help Ease Pain for Anxious People [SEP] Music as a coping strategy // a stronger stress/anxiety response than the individual would otherwise have otherwise experienced when listening to the song. While one cannot assume that music is the only factor that triggers PTSD-influenced stress and panic attacks, these can be especially memorable because of music’s rhythm, beat, and/or memorable lyrics. However, associating music with psychological responses is not necessarily guaranteed to bring up bad memories, because music can often hold psychological connotations to very happy memories. For example, it has been demonstrated that supplying the residents of nursing homes with iPods that feature nostalgic music is a means of reducing the stress of
Music May Help Ease Pain for Anxious People [SEP] Music as a coping strategy // monitor and other empirical methods of study, researchers are able to remove the superficial qualities associated with patient response-based findings and provide a more substantial correlation between the use of music and the its effects on the human stress response. One particular technique that uses music as a coping strategy is choosing and listening to music genres that have been shown to correlate with lower levels of stress. For example, it has been suggested that listening to classical music or self-selected music can lower stress levels in adult individuals. Music that is fast, heavy or even dark in nature may
Music May Help Ease Pain for Anxious People [SEP] Music therapy // or anxiety disorders found that music-based interventions may be efficient in reducing the severity of internalizing symptoms in children and adolescents. There is moderate-quality evidence that music therapy added to treatment as usual is more effective than treatment as usual alone in people with depression. A 2017 theoretical review on the use of music therapy in post-traumatic stress disorder suggests that music therapy may be a useful therapeutic tool to reduce symptoms and improve functioning among individuals with trauma exposure and PTSD, though more rigorous empirical study is required. In 1999, the first program for music therapy in Africa opened
Music May Help Ease Pain for Anxious People [SEP] Music as a coping strategy // over their respective lives. Introducing the feeling of control can be a valuable asset as the individual attempts to cope with his or her stress. With that in mind, there are a few specific techniques specifically involving the use of music that have been suggested to aid in the reduction of stress and stress-related effects. Another specific technique that can be used is the utilization of music as a “memory time machine” of sorts. In this regard, music can allow one to escape to pleasant or unpleasant memories and trigger a coping response. It has been suggested that music can
Music May Help Ease Pain for Anxious People [SEP] Music as a coping strategy // reduction. Music as a form of coping has been used multiple times in cancer patients, with promising results. A study done on 113 patients going through stem cell transplants split the patients into two group; one group made their own lyrics about their journey and then produced a music video, and the other group listened to audiobooks. The results of the study showed that the music video group had better coping skills and better social interactions in comparison, by taking their mind of the pain and stress accompanying treatment, and giving them an outlet to express their feelings. Another study
Music May Help Ease Pain for Anxious People [SEP] Music therapy // rate, reduced anxiety, stimulation of the brain, and improved learning. Music therapists use their techniques to help their patients in many areas, ranging from stress relief before and after surgeries, to neuropathologies such as Alzheimer's disease. One study found that children who listened to music while having an IV inserted into their arms showed less distress and felt less pain than the children who did not listen to music while having an IV inserted. Studies have been carried out on patients diagnosed different mental disorders such as anxiety, depression and schizophrenia and there has been a visible improvement in their
Music May Help Ease Pain for Anxious People [SEP] Music as a coping strategy // a coping strategy also has applications in the medical field. For example, patients who listen to music during surgery or post-operative recovery have been shown to have less stress than their counterparts who do not listen to music. Studies have shown that the family members and parents of the patient had reduced stress levels when listening to music while waiting, and can even reduce their anxiety for the surgery results. The use of music has also been proven effective in pediatric oncology. Music therapy is mainly used in these cases as a diversion technique, play therapy, designed to distract the
Music May Help Ease Pain for Anxious People [SEP] Music as a coping strategy // effectiveness of this coping strategy. Nevertheless, it is still an attractive option for some patients who want an easy and inexpensive way to respond to stress. Music as a coping strategy Music as a coping strategy involves the use of music (through listening or playing music) in order to reduce stress, as well as many of the psychological and physical manifestations associated with it. The use of music to cope with stress is an example of an emotion-focused, adaptive coping strategy. Rather than focusing on the stressor itself, music therapy is typically geared towards reducing or eliminating the emotions that
Music May Help Ease Pain for Anxious People [SEP] Music as a coping strategy // other means. A more theoretical critique of this coping strategy is that the use of music in stress coping is largely a short-term coping response and therefore lacks long-term sustainability. These critics argue that while music may be effective in lowering perceived stress levels of patients, it is not necessarily making a difference on the actual cause of the stress response. Because the root cause of the stress is not affected, it is possible that the stress response may return shortly after therapy is ended. Those who hold this position advocate instead for a more problem-focused coping strategy that directly
Music May Help Ease Pain for Anxious People [SEP] Music as a coping strategy // Music as a coping strategy Music as a coping strategy involves the use of music (through listening or playing music) in order to reduce stress, as well as many of the psychological and physical manifestations associated with it. The use of music to cope with stress is an example of an emotion-focused, adaptive coping strategy. Rather than focusing on the stressor itself, music therapy is typically geared towards reducing or eliminating the emotions that arise in response to stress. In essence, advocates of this therapy claim that the use of music helps to lower stress levels in patients, as well
Gaza runs out of coronavirus tests, Palestinian health officials say. [SEP] Coronavirus // 2013, a case of contamination from human to human in France was confirmed by the French Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. In addition, cases of person-to-person transmission have been reported by the Ministry of Health in Tunisia. Two confirmed cases seem to have caught the disease from their late father, who became ill after a visit to Qatar and Saudi Arabia. By Oct. 30 2013, there were 124 cases and 52 deaths in Saudi Arabia. After the Dutch Erasmus Medical Centre sequenced the virus, the virus was given a new name, Human Corona Virus-Erasmus Medical Centre (HCoV-EMC). The final
Gaza runs out of coronavirus tests, Palestinian health officials say. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // of unknown origin. Of the six, two died. All the cases were reported to the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC). After the September identification of a novel CoV strain, a retroactive analysis of the hospital workers was performed. Epidemiologists discovered the Jordan cases. Using stored laboratory samples for all six, it was found that samples from the two patients who had died tested positive for nCoV. On 24 April 2014, a 25-year-old male was found positive for the coronavirus. He had history of exposure to camels and had consumed camel milk. The Ministry of Health and Medical
Gaza runs out of coronavirus tests, Palestinian health officials say. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // government, in November 2013, reported a woman in Spain, who had recently traveled to Saudi Arabia for the Islamic pilgrimage, contracted the disease. On 14 April 2014, one Filipino paramedic died in the United Arab Emirates, with six other reported to be infected with the virus. On 17 April, the UAE Ministry of Health reported another fatality and four additional cases, including the Filipino medical worker who travelled to the Philippines on 16 April. On 21 April 2014, the Health Ministry of UAE reported an additional 9 cases. In April 2012, six hospital workers were diagnosed with acute respiratory failure
Gaza runs out of coronavirus tests, Palestinian health officials say. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // a nurse who came in contact with the deceased patient are suspected to have contracted the disease. The victim's son-in-law is also reported to have been infected. According to Dr. Gooya, the infection of 1 out of the 3 suspected patients is confirmed and more tests are under way to determine the situation of the other two patients. On 7 May 2013, a case was confirmed in Nord departement of France in a man who had previously traveled to Dubai, United Arab Emirates. On 12 May 2013, in a case of human to human transmission, a man previously hospitalized in
Gaza runs out of coronavirus tests, Palestinian health officials say. [SEP] Middle East respiratory syndrome // pneumonia and acute renal failure. After routine diagnostics failed to identify the causative agent, Zaki contacted Ron Fouchier, a leading virologist at the Erasmus Medical Center (EMC) in Rotterdam, the Netherlands, for advice. Fouchier sequenced the virus from a sample sent by Zaki. Fouchier used a broad-spectrum "pan-coronavirus" real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) method to test for distinguishing features of a number of known coronaviruses (such as OC43, 229R, NL63, and SARS-CoV), as well as for RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp), a gene conserved in all coronaviruses known to infect humans. While the screens for known coronaviruses were all negative, the
Gaza runs out of coronavirus tests, Palestinian health officials say. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // said virus. The Evangelista Medical Hospital in San Pedro, Laguna, the facility where the patient was first admitted, was temporarily closed by DOH for fourteen days. On 17 February 2015, all those who had exposure or had contact with the said nurse were tested negative of the said virus. On 6 March 2015, The Department of Foreign Affairs confirmed three Filipino female healthcare workers in Saudi Arabia who were infected with MERS-CoV. On 6 July 2015, DOH confirmed the second detected case of MERS-CoV in the country. The patient who had contracted the virus was from the Middle East and
Gaza runs out of coronavirus tests, Palestinian health officials say. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // and from that family at least one additional person presented similar symptoms but tested negative for the novel coronavirus. On 21 February 2013, WHO stated that there had been 13 laboratory-confirmed cases, 6 cases (4 fatal) from Saudi Arabia, 2 cases (both fatal) from Jordan, 2 cases from Qatar, and 3 from the UK. In March 2013, the Saudi Arabia Ministry of Health reported the death of a 39-year-old man, the 15th case and 9th death reported to WHO. On 2 May 2013, the Saudi Ministry of Health announced five people died and two other people were in critical condition
Gaza runs out of coronavirus tests, Palestinian health officials say. [SEP] Middle East respiratory syndrome // based on the virus's RNA obtained from the Qatari case. On 25 September 2012, the WHO announced that it was "engaged in further characterizing the novel coronavirus" and that it had "immediately alerted all its Member States about the virus and has been leading the coordination and providing guidance to health authorities and technical health agencies." The Erasmus Medical Center (EMC) in Rotterdam "tested, sequenced and identified" a sample provided to EMC virologist Ron Fouchier by Ali Mohamed Zaki in November 2012. On 8 November 2012 in an article published in the New England Journal of Medicine, Dr. Zaki and
Gaza runs out of coronavirus tests, Palestinian health officials say. [SEP] Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus // camel strains are intermixed suggesting multiple transmission events. The first confirmed case was reported in Saudi Arabia in 2012. Egyptian virologist Dr. Ali Mohamed Zaki isolated and identified a previously unknown coronavirus from the man's lungs. Dr. Zaki then posted his findings on 24 September 2012 on ProMED-mail. The isolated cells showed cytopathic effects (CPE), in the form of rounding and syncytia formation. A second case was found in September 2012, a 49-year-old male living in Qatar presented with similar flu symptoms, and a sequence of the virus was nearly identical to that of the first case. In November 2012,
Gaza runs out of coronavirus tests, Palestinian health officials say. [SEP] Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus // and were therefore delaying the development of diagnostic tests. Erasmus MC responded that the patent application did not restrict public health research into MERS coronavirus, and that the virus and diagnostic tests were shipped—free of charge—to all that requested such reagents. There are a number of mapping efforts focused on tracking MERS coronavirus. On 2 May 2014, the Corona Map was launched to track the MERS coronavirus in realtime on the world map. The data is officially reported by WHO or the Ministry of Health of the respective country. HealthMap also tracks case reports with inclusion of news and social
In Early Trial, Targeted Therapy Fights Advanced Melanoma [SEP] Melanoma // therapies work by blocking the genes involved in pathways for tumor proliferation and survival. The main treatments are BRAF, C-Kit and NRAS inhibitors. These inhibitors work to inhibit the downstream pathways involved in cell proliferation and tumour development due to specific gene mutations. People can be treated with small-molecule targeted inhibitors if they are positive for the specific mutation. BRAF inhibitors, such as vemurafenib and dabrafenib and a MEK inhibitor trametinib are the most effective, approved treatments for BRAF positive melanoma. Melanoma tumors can develop resistance during therapy which can make therapy no longer effective, but combining the use of
In Early Trial, Targeted Therapy Fights Advanced Melanoma [SEP] Melanoma // Clinical Oncology Conference in June 2010, the Bristol-Myers Squibb pharmaceutical company reported the clinical findings of their drug ipilimumab. The study found an increase in median survival from 6.4 to 10 months in patients with advanced melanomas treated with the monoclonal ipilimumab, versus an experimental vaccine. It also found a one-year survival rate of 25% in the control group using the vaccine, 44% in the vaccine and ipilimumab group, and 46% in the group treated with ipilimumab alone. However, some have raised concerns about this study for its use of the unconventional control arm, rather than comparing the drug against
In Early Trial, Targeted Therapy Fights Advanced Melanoma [SEP] Melanoma // Plexxicon's vemurafenib could lead to substantial tumor regression in a majority of patients if their tumor contain the B-Raf mutation. In June 2011, a large clinical trial confirmed the positive findings from those earlier trials. In August 2011 Vemurafenib received FDA approval for the treatment of late-stage melanoma. In May 2013 the US FDA approved dabrafenib as a single agent treatment for patients with BRAF V600E mutation-positive advanced melanoma. Some researchers believe that combination therapies that simultaneously block multiple pathways may improve efficacy by making it more difficult for the tumor cells to mutate before being destroyed. In October 2012
In Early Trial, Targeted Therapy Fights Advanced Melanoma [SEP] BRAF (gene) // well-understood, high yield target. Vemurafenib (RG7204 or PLX4032) was licensed by the US Food and Drug Administration as Zelboraf for the treatment of metastatic melanoma in August 2011 based on Phase III clinical data. Improved survival was seen, as well as a response rate to treatment of 53%, compared to from 7-12% with the former best chemotherapeutic treatment, dacarbazine. In clinical trials, B-Raf increased metastatic melanoma patient chance of survival. In spite of the drug's high efficacy, 20% of tumors still develop resistance to the treatment. In mice, 20% of tumors become resistant after 56 days. While the mechanisms of
In Early Trial, Targeted Therapy Fights Advanced Melanoma [SEP] Melanoma // a placebo or standard treatment. The criticism was that although Ipilimumab performed better than the vaccine, the vaccine has not been tested before and may be causing toxicity, making the drug appear better by comparison. Ipilimumab was approved by the FDA in March 2011 to treat patients with late-stage melanoma that has spread or cannot be removed by surgery. In June 2011, a clinical trial of ipilimumab plus dacarbazine combined this immune system booster with the standard chemotherapy drug that targets cell division. It showed an increase in median survival for these late stage patients to 11 months instead of
In Early Trial, Targeted Therapy Fights Advanced Melanoma [SEP] Pembrolizumab // USAN name was changed from lambrolizumab to pembrolizumab. In that year clinical trial results in advanced melanoma were published in the New England Journal of Medicine. This was part of the large phase 1 NCT01295827 trial. On September 4, 2014, the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved pembrolizumab under the FDA Fast Track Development Program. It is approved for use following treatment with ipilimumab, or after treatment with Ipilimumab and a BRAF inhibitor in advanced melanoma patients who carry a BRAF mutation. As of 2015, the only PD-1/PD-L1 targeting drugs on the market were pembrolizumab and Bristol-Myers Squibb's Opdivo,
In Early Trial, Targeted Therapy Fights Advanced Melanoma [SEP] H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center & Research Institute // Adam Comprehensive Melanoma Research Center at Moffitt, and researchers at Moffitt Cancer Center discovered two monotherapy drugs – Mekinist (trametinib) and Tafinlar (dabrafenib) – can be safely combined to overcome or delay treatment resistance for a large percentage of melanoma patients with a specific gene mutation. Approved by the FDA in January 2014, Mekinist in combination with Tafinlar is one of the biggest advancements in melanoma treatment in the past 30 years. In August 2011, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved the drug vemurafenib (Zelboraf) for metastatic melanoma patients who test positive for a specific gene mutation. Moffitt
In Early Trial, Targeted Therapy Fights Advanced Melanoma [SEP] Melanoma // categories of treatments including cytokines, immune check point inhibitors, and adoptive cell transfer. These treatment options are most often used in people with metastatic melanoma and significantly improves overall survival. However, these treatments are often costly. For example, one immune check point inhibitor treatment, pembrolizumab, costs $10,000 to $12,000 USD for a single dose administered every 3 weeks. Cytokine therapies used for melanoma include IFN-a and IL-2. IL-2 (Proleukin) was the first new therapy approved (1990 Europe, 1992 USA) for the treatment of metastatic melanoma in 20 years. IL-2 may offer the possibility of a complete and long-lasting remission in
In Early Trial, Targeted Therapy Fights Advanced Melanoma [SEP] Adjuvant therapy // 2 weeks. To lessen the side effects of chemotherapy that can be exacerbated with more closely administered chemotherapy treatments, growth factors are typically given in conjunction with DDC to restore white blood cell counts. A recent 2018 meta-analysis of DDC clinical trials in early stage breast cancer patients indicated promising results in premenopausal women, but DDC has yet to become the standard of treatment in clinics. The role of adjuvant therapy in malignant melanoma is and has been hotly debated by oncologists. In 1995 a multicenter study reported improved long-term and disease-free survival in melanoma patients using interferon alpha 2b
In Early Trial, Targeted Therapy Fights Advanced Melanoma [SEP] Melanoma // BRAF and MEK inhibitors may create a fast and lasting melanoma therapy response. A number of treatments improve survival over traditional chemotherapy. Biochemotherapy (chemotherapy with cytokines IL-2 and IFN-α) combined with BRAF inhibitors improved survival for people with BRAF positive melanoma. Biochemotherapy alone did not improve overall survival and had higher toxicity than chemotherapy. Combining multiple chemotherapy agents (polychemotherapy) did not improve survival over monochemotherapy. Immunotherapy is aimed at stimulating the person’s immune system against the tumor, by enhancing the body's own ability to recognize and kill cancer cells. The current approach to treating melanoma with immunotherapy includes three broad
New Mexico woman, 105, who beat 1918 flu, has COVID-19. [SEP] 2009 Flu pandemic in North America // los Caballeros and the other was a 20-year-old woman from Santo Domingo Province. Each of them had visited the United States (Orlando and Seattle, respectively) before being diagnosed. On May 30, nine more cases were confirmed, all from the Carol Morgan school. On June 5, a 17-year-old pregnant girl infected with the AH1N1 virus died. 44 cases were confirmed to this date. A 29-year-old, who had recently visited Mexico, was being tested for a suspected case of swine flu. Guatemala is checking all travelers arriving from Mexico for signs of flu and stopping anyone with symptoms of the virus at
New Mexico woman, 105, who beat 1918 flu, has COVID-19. [SEP] Cristóval María Larrañaga // His logs show he vaccinated 3,610 people. Larrañaga is credited for saving a generation. The children who traveled from Ciudad Chihuahua to Santa Fé with Larrañaga were children of soldiers, and were also labeled as heroes. New Mexico had been struggling against smallpox since the early 1780s; a 1781 outbreak had killed 5,000 people, which is thought to have been more than a quarter of the population in New Mexico. Fray Angélico Chávez states extant orders given to Larrañaga to vaccinate the area until 1809. He also cites Larrañaga as a notary for the state. In 1809, Larrañaga was vaccinating
New Mexico woman, 105, who beat 1918 flu, has COVID-19. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic in Europe // Mexico. On 21 May, a case was found in a 43-year-old woman from Düsseldorf in North Rhine-Westphalia who had returned from New York. One day later, Robert Koch Institute confirmed that her husband had tested positive with swine influenza too. Furthermore, their six-year-old daughter, who did not stay in New York, had been infected by her parents, bringing the total to 17. Up until 5 June 2009, the total number of confirmed cases increased to 49. Most of them were recent travelers to Mexico, the USA or the UK. There was also a single-digit number of isolated in-country-transmissions. On 19
New Mexico woman, 105, who beat 1918 flu, has COVID-19. [SEP] 1993 Four Corners hantavirus outbreak // sudden, severe shortness of breath. Doctors found the woman’s lungs to be full of fluid, and she died soon after her arrival. An autopsy revealed the woman’s lungs to be twice the normal weight for someone her age. The cause of her death could not be immediately determined, and the case was reported to the New Mexico Department of Health. Five days later, her fiancé, a young Navajo man, was en route to her funeral in Gallup when he suddenly became severely short of breath. By the time paramedics brought him to the Indian Medical Center emergency room, he had
New Mexico woman, 105, who beat 1918 flu, has COVID-19. [SEP] 1993 Four Corners hantavirus outbreak // that all of the Four Corners patients had mild flu-like symptoms such as malaise, headache, cough, and fever, with a sudden onset of pulmonary edema necessitating ventilators before eventually causing death. From April to May 1993, there were 24 reported cases in the region. Twelve of those people died, resulting in a 50% mortality rate. Of the 24 patients, 14 were Native Americans, nine were non-Hispanic whites and one was Hispanic. Navajo leaders reported that similar outbreaks had occurred in 1918, 1933, and 1934. Navajo tribal stories have identified mice as sources of bad luck and illness since the 19th
New Mexico woman, 105, who beat 1918 flu, has COVID-19. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic timeline // was infected by another patient who had just visited Mexico, namely his girlfriend). This is the first intergenerational transmission to be documented in Europe. First death outside Mexico, a 23-month-old Mexican child hospitalized in Texas. Ninety-one confirmed cases in the USA to date. First two cases reported within South Africa, by two women that travelled in Mexico weeks earlier. The cases were confirmed on 18 June 2009. Canada Confirmed: One more case in Toronto, and eight more cases in Nova Scotia, and Alberta bringing total to 28. First confirmed case. First confirmed case, a three-year-old child. The child returned from
New Mexico woman, 105, who beat 1918 flu, has COVID-19. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic in the United States by state // May 1 the probable case number was increased to nine. As of May 30, 2009, the New Mexico Department of Health has confirmed 156 total cases of the H1N1 virus in various counties with the CDC reporting 232 cases. New Mexico has since stopped reporting cases. On April 24, New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene dispatched a team of investigators to the private St. Francis Preparatory School in Queens after 150 students complained of symptoms consistent with the disease. Several of the students had recently traveled to Mexico City. New York City Health Commissioner Dr. Thomas Frieden
New Mexico woman, 105, who beat 1918 flu, has COVID-19. [SEP] 1993 Four Corners hantavirus outbreak // stopped breathing and the paramedics were performing cardiopulmonary resuscitation. The young man could not be revived by doctors and died. The physicians, recalling the similar symptoms and death of the young woman, reported his death to the New Mexico Department of Health. New Mexico state health officials notified the Centers for Disease Control (CDC). Within a week, a task force had formed in Albuquerque that included Bruce Tempest, chief of medicine at the Indian Medical Center. Tempest quickly discovered that five people, including the young man’s fiancée, as well as an Arizona resident, all had experienced the same symptoms and
New Mexico woman, 105, who beat 1918 flu, has COVID-19. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic in Germany // Bavarian woman, who stayed for some weeks in Mexico and medicated patients in a hospital, is reported. On 15 May, two more cases were reported, a female and her son from Saxony-Anhalt were obviously infected by her husband / his father, who returned from Mexico. On 21 May, a case was found in a 43-year-old woman from Düsseldorf in North Rhine-Westphalia who returned from New York. One day later, Robert Koch Institute confirmed that her husband has been tested positive with swine influenza too. Furthermore, their six-year-old daughter, who did not stay in New York, has been infected by her
New Mexico woman, 105, who beat 1918 flu, has COVID-19. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic in Uruguay // confirmed. The age of the infected persons are between 11 and 28 years old, all located in Montevideo. The Ministry of Health is studying new probable cases, one located in Florida, one in Salto, and two in Rivera. The total amount of cases ascends to 6. May 31: Five new cases confirmed. The Ministry of Health have studied 33 suspected cases, only five cases are positive. Four of them are from Montevideo, and the remaining, is the first case from Canelones. The number of cases are now 11. June 1: Four new cases confirmed. The Ministry of Health declares that
Chinese officials are seeking approval to start the mass killing of 20,000 people in order to stop the spread of new coronavirus. [SEP] Coronavirus // 2013, a case of contamination from human to human in France was confirmed by the French Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. In addition, cases of person-to-person transmission have been reported by the Ministry of Health in Tunisia. Two confirmed cases seem to have caught the disease from their late father, who became ill after a visit to Qatar and Saudi Arabia. By Oct. 30 2013, there were 124 cases and 52 deaths in Saudi Arabia. After the Dutch Erasmus Medical Centre sequenced the virus, the virus was given a new name, Human Corona Virus-Erasmus Medical Centre (HCoV-EMC). The final
Chinese officials are seeking approval to start the mass killing of 20,000 people in order to stop the spread of new coronavirus. [SEP] Wake (Sawyer novel) // senior member of the Communist Party, recommends the President order a culling of ten to eleven thousand people in the infected area with an airborne chemical. The President agrees and launches the Changcheng Strategy, cutting off all telephone, satellite, and wireless communication with the rest of the world, so that word of the culling does not spread beyond China's borders. Wong Wai-Jeng, a freedom blogger who is known online as Sinanthropus, attempts to circumvent Internet censorship in China along with many other hackers. Collectively they learn about the bird flu outbreak. Many days after enacting the Changcheng Strategy, Zhang Bo,
Chinese officials are seeking approval to start the mass killing of 20,000 people in order to stop the spread of new coronavirus. [SEP] Influenza A virus subtype H7N9 // and no [bird] exposure history is elicited, this does point slightly more to the possibility that H7N9 may be more transmissible between humans than H5N1". On January 28, 2014, it was reported by the Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention that the virus had killed 20 people in China in 2014, with the total number of human infections at 102. That is comparable to 144 confirmed cases, including 46 deaths, in the whole of 2013. At the end of January, more than half of the cases in 2014 had been in Zhejiang, with another 24 in Guangdong, and eight
Chinese officials are seeking approval to start the mass killing of 20,000 people in order to stop the spread of new coronavirus. [SEP] Fujian flu // oseltamivir, the first-choice antiviral drug for H5N1 infection. In addition, only six of the viruses had a mutation that confers resistance to amantadine, an older antiviral drug used to treat flu." "China's official Xinhua news agency says a new bird flu outbreak has killed more than 3,000 chickens in the northwest. The Ministry of Agriculture told Xinhua that the July 14 outbreak in Xinjiang region's Aksu city is under control. No human infections have been reported. Saturday's report says the deadly H5N1 virus killed 3,045 chickens, and nearly 357,000 more were destroyed in an emergency response. Xinhua says the local
Chinese officials are seeking approval to start the mass killing of 20,000 people in order to stop the spread of new coronavirus. [SEP] SARS coronavirus // as human SARS victims. In late May 2003, studies from samples of wild animals sold as food in the local market in Guangdong, China, found the SARS coronavirus could be isolated from masked palm civets ("Paguma" sp.), but the animals did not always show clinical signs. The preliminary conclusion was the SARS virus crossed the xenographic barrier from palm civet to humans, and more than 10,000 masked palm civets were killed in Guangdong Province. Virus was also later found in raccoon dogs ("Nyctereuteus" sp.), ferret badgers ("Melogale" spp.), and domestic cats. In 2005, two studies identified a number of SARS-like
Chinese officials are seeking approval to start the mass killing of 20,000 people in order to stop the spread of new coronavirus. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // MERS had infected at least 60 people with cases reported in Jordan, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates (UAE), Tunisia, Germany, the United Kingdom (UK), France and Italy, with a death toll of 38. Saudi officials expressed great concern that millions of Muslims from around the world would potentially be exposed to the virus during the autumn Hajj, or pilgrimage to Mecca. In May 2014, the WHO said it was monitoring the situation as global cases of MERS appeared to be on the rise, but said the situation did not yet constitute a health emergency. On 3 June 2014,
Chinese officials are seeking approval to start the mass killing of 20,000 people in order to stop the spread of new coronavirus. [SEP] Virus (novel) // papers. Another disease also kills off chickens and their eggs just when scientists needed to acquire large stocks of eggs for developing vaccines. The outbreaks of something called Tibetan flu begin to inflict massive casualties, with a number of countries reporting hundreds of thousands killed from random heart attacks. The Soviet Union's premier and vice-premier die of the illness, and Meyer is forcibly committed to the Sloan-Kettering Institute to prevent revealing the truth about the virus. Things are also worse in the scientific community; the fact that no one except the now-dead Porton Down researchers know of the existence of
Chinese officials are seeking approval to start the mass killing of 20,000 people in order to stop the spread of new coronavirus. [SEP] Health in China // to emerge. Obsessive secrecy seriously delayed the isolation of SARS by Chinese scientists. On 18 May 2004, the World Health Organization announced the PRC free of further cases of SARS. Work with the CDC has created goals of decelerating the spread of Hepatitis B through Immunization efforts The AIDS disaster of Henan in the mid-1990s is estimated to be the largest man-made health catastrophe, affecting five-hundred thousand to one million persons. It was also in Hebei, Anhui, Shanxi, Shaanxi, Hubei and Guizhou. HIV was transmitted via blood sale. Blood plasma mixture from several persons was returned so that same person
Chinese officials are seeking approval to start the mass killing of 20,000 people in order to stop the spread of new coronavirus. [SEP] Timeline of the SARS outbreak // 16, the WHO issued a press release stating that the coronavirus identified by a number of laboratories was the official cause of SARS. The virus was officially named the SARS virus. Doctors were surprised to discover the occurrence of at least two cases of SARS in Dinner, a village near Bangalore, India. Poor hygiene and a lack of adequate trash disposal seemed to have hastened the spread of the deadly disease. On April 19, Premier of the People's Republic of China Wen Jiabao announced that there would be severe consequences for local officials who do not report SARS cases in
Chinese officials are seeking approval to start the mass killing of 20,000 people in order to stop the spread of new coronavirus. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // United Kingdom, France, Germany, and the United Arab Emirates. According to a European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) publication, on April 2014, Tunisia had a total of 3 cases with 1 fatality. In May 2015, the first case in South Korea was confirmed in a man who had visited several Middle Eastern countries. As of 16 June 2015, a total of 150 cases has been infected, including 18 deaths, according to the World Health Organization (WHO). As of 29 June 2015, 32 people in South Korea have died from this outbreak, with 182 confirmed cases of infection. There
Joe Diffie’s death was labeled “as a COVID-19 death and it wasn’t!” [SEP] Boyd Coffie // as the Rockies' roving catching instructor. Coffie died from cancer at the age of 68 in 2006. In his honor, a golf tournament known as the Boyd Coffie Golf Classic is played annually. Boyd Coffie Howard Boyd Coffie (November 6, 1937 – May 2, 2006) was an American minor league baseball player, manager, college coach, scout and executive. He attended McMinn County High School and then Rollins College. In 1959, Coffie won the Florida Intercollegiate Conference MVP Award. He was an NAIA All-American in 1958 and 1959 While at Rollins College, he was also an All-Conference basketball player. He began
Joe Diffie’s death was labeled “as a COVID-19 death and it wasn’t!” [SEP] Joe Diffie // Joe Diffie Joe Logan Diffie (born December 28, 1958) is an American country music singer. After working as a demo singer in the 1980s, he signed with Epic Records' Nashville division in 1990. Between then and 2004, Diffie charted 35 singles on the "Billboard" Hot Country Songs chart, five of which peaked at No. 1: his debut release "Home", "If the Devil Danced (In Empty Pockets)", "Third Rock from the Sun", "Pickup Man" (his longest-lasting No. 1, at four weeks) and "Bigger Than the Beatles". In addition to these singles, he has had 12 others reach the Top 10 and
Joe Diffie’s death was labeled “as a COVID-19 death and it wasn’t!” [SEP] Di Henry // Simone Torres, are murdered by a serial killer known as the Satin Slayer. Di and Aidan come up with a plan to catch the killer, bringing them closer. During the holidays, Di asks Aidan to move into Wildwind with her. Aidan happily accepts. Yet, tragically, Di's life is turned upside down when Dixie is accidentally poisoned and killed with pancakes by the Satin Slayer (the pancakes were meant for her daughter-in-law Babe Carey Chandler). Di leaves Pine Valley to go to New York as a Fusion Cosmetics rep for the East Coast. Deciding not to do the long-distance relationship with
Joe Diffie’s death was labeled “as a COVID-19 death and it wasn’t!” [SEP] Joe Diffie // Diffie married Debbie Jones, a nurse technician. They had two sons, Drew and Tyler, the latter of whom was born with Down syndrome and nearly died in 1991 following complications from a tonsillectomy. Diffie began an affair with Liz Allison, the widow of NASCAR driver Davey Allison, in 1993. In 1994, a judge ordered Diffie to pay Jones $3,000 per month towards their pending divorce settlement, and not to allow Drew and Tyler to be in the presence of any girlfriend; he divorced Jones in 1996. In 2000, Diffie married the former Theresa Crump, whom he met at a concert,
Joe Diffie’s death was labeled “as a COVID-19 death and it wasn’t!” [SEP] History of Miami // of sexual orientation. Opposition to this ordinance, which was repealed, was led by Florida orange juice spokeswoman, Anita Bryant. In December 1979, police officers pursued motorcyclist Arthur McDuffie in a high-speed chase after McDuffie made a provocative gesture towards a police officer. The officers claimed that the chase ended when McDuffie crashed his motorcycle and died, but the coroner's report concluded otherwise. One of the officers testified that McDuffie fell off of his bike on an Interstate 95 on-ramp. When the police reached him he was injured but okay. The officers removed his helmet, beat him to death with their
Joe Diffie’s death was labeled “as a COVID-19 death and it wasn’t!” [SEP] Hill Street Blues // Kozoll quickly fashioned this into a new story arc, which aired as two two-hour episodes to close the season. In the first series' original ending, Officer Joe Coffey (Ed Marinaro), is shot dead during a vehicle stop. However, later on the producers decided that Coffey should remain so scene was edited to him being seriously wounded and taken to hospital. (The character would eventually be killed in the sixth season) In early episodes the opening theme had several clearly audible edits; this was replaced by a longer, unedited version partway through the second season. The end credits for the pilot
Joe Diffie’s death was labeled “as a COVID-19 death and it wasn’t!” [SEP] The Contours // performances. In 2006, "the Contours with Joe Billingslea" filled the vacant bass singing spot created by Potts' departure with Odell Jones. In March 2010, the Contours were inducted into the Doo-Wopp Hall of Fame of America. The induction show featured a performance by "the Contours with Joe Billingslea". Hubert Johnson committed suicide in Detroit, on July 11, 1981, at age 40. Mid-1960s member, Joe Stubbs - brother of Levi Stubbs, died on February 5, 1998. Afterward, several original members died within a ten year period. Billy Gordon died sometime during 1999. Guitarist Huey Davis (who was pictured on the "Do
Joe Diffie’s death was labeled “as a COVID-19 death and it wasn’t!” [SEP] The Supernaturalist // and a steel plate in his head to heal his fractured skull. One of the group, teenage Latina and ex-mechanic Mona Vasquez, introduces herself, and tells Cosmo about the other two: Stefan Bashkir, another teen, who used to be a cop before an accident killed his mother and almost killed him; and Lucien Bonn, nicknamed Ditto due to his habit of repeating what people say. Bonn had gene-splicing experiments performed on him as a baby to produce a "super-human"; however, these experiments did nothing except stunt his growth, making Ditto appear six in spite of his true age of twenty-eight.
Joe Diffie’s death was labeled “as a COVID-19 death and it wasn’t!” [SEP] Sonny Corinthos // Sonny is homeless and visits Adela when Deke is working. After stealing his car, local mob boss, Joe Scully takes Sonny under his wing giving him a place to live while Sonny works odd jobs for him. When Sonny goes to visit Adela on her birthday, he finds her severely beaten and unconscious. Sonny confides in Scully who has Deke killed the next day. Adela passes away a few years later, when Sonny is nineteen. Sonny and Connie make plans to run away together once she is eighteen. However, once Connie skips town without him, Sonny goes to work for
Joe Diffie’s death was labeled “as a COVID-19 death and it wasn’t!” [SEP] Joe Diffie // his senior year he was recognized as Best All-Around Male Athlete. After graduating, he attended Cameron University in Lawton, Oklahoma. Although he initially earned credits toward medical school, he decided against a medical profession after marrying for the first time in 1977, and ultimately dropped out before graduation. Diffie first worked in oil fields, then drove a truck that pumped cement in the oilfield in Alice, Texas, before he moved back to Duncan to work in a foundry. During this period, he worked as a musician on the side, first in a gospel group called Higher Purpose, and then in
Obama's one education accomplishment was "legislation to teach 'comprehensive sex education' to kindergartners. [SEP] Social policy of the Barack Obama administration // in response to a petition calling for the practice to be banned. As an Illinois State Senator, Obama supported Senate bill 0099 for "age and developmentally appropriate" sex education, which would have allowed parents to choose to withdraw their children from the classes. The bill was endorsed by the Illinois Parent Teacher Association, the Illinois State Medical Society, the Illinois Public Health Association, and the Illinois Education Association. In a debate in 2004, when questioned by Alan Keyes about what kind of sex education was "age appropriate" for kindergarteners, Obama said, "I'll give you an example, because I have a
Obama's one education accomplishment was "legislation to teach 'comprehensive sex education' to kindergartners. [SEP] Social policy of the Barack Obama administration // explicit sex education to children in kindergarten." Obama has encouraged Democrats to reach out to evangelicals and other religious groups. In December 2006, he joined Sen. Sam Brownback (R-KS) at the "Global Summit on AIDS and the Church" organized by church leaders Kay and Rick Warren. Together with Warren and Brownback, Obama took an HIV test, as he had done in Kenya less than four months earlier. He encouraged "others in public life to do the same" and not be ashamed of it. Addressing over 8,000 United Church of Christ members in June 2007, Obama challenged "so-called leaders of the
Obama's one education accomplishment was "legislation to teach 'comprehensive sex education' to kindergartners. [SEP] Sex education in the United States // million a year in FY2016. President Barack Obama unsuccessfully attempted to terminate A.O.U.M, due to "10 years of opposition and concern from medical and public health professionals, sexuality educators, and the human rights community that AOUM withholds information about condoms and contraception, promotes religious ideologies and gender stereotypes and stigmatizes adolescents with non-heteronormative sexual identities." Two major studies by Congress have increased the volume of criticism surrounding abstinence-only education. In 2004, U.S. Congressman Henry Waxman of California released a report that provides several examples of inaccurate information being included in federally funded abstinence-only sex education programs. This report bolstered the
Obama's one education accomplishment was "legislation to teach 'comprehensive sex education' to kindergartners. [SEP] Sex education in the United States // decreasing teen pregnancy rates. Despite its lack of efficacy, the United States congress has continued to fund A.O.U.M., increasing funding to $85 million a year in FY2016. President Barack Obama unsuccessfully attempted to terminate A.O.U.M, due to "10 years of opposition and concern from medical and public health professionals, sexuality educators, and the human rights community that AOUM withholds information about condoms and contraception, promotes religious ideologies and gender stereotypes and stigmatizes adolescents with non-heteronormative sexual identities." Coined by Nancy Kendall, the "sex education debates" refers to the current binarized conversation surrounding sex education within the United States. The two
Obama's one education accomplishment was "legislation to teach 'comprehensive sex education' to kindergartners. [SEP] Social policy of the Barack Obama administration // six-year-old daughter and a three-year-old daughter, and one of the things my wife and I talked to our daughter about is the possibility of somebody touching them inappropriately, and what that might mean. And that was included specifically in the law, so that kindergarteners are able to exercise some possible protection against abuse..." In 2007, in response to a similar attack from Mitt Romney, an Obama spokesperson stated his position that communities should determine the curriculum. The Illinois bill did not call for addressing all sex-related issues in kindergarten classes, and Obama has said that he "does not support teaching
Obama's one education accomplishment was "legislation to teach 'comprehensive sex education' to kindergartners. [SEP] Presidency of Barack Obama // college for everyone. Through her Let's Move program and advocacy of healthier school lunches, First Lady Michelle Obama focused attention on childhood obesity, which was three times higher in 2008 than it had been in 1974. In December 2015, Obama signed the Every Student Succeeds Act, a bipartisan bill that reauthorized federally mandated testing but shrank the federal government's role in education, especially with regard to troubled schools. The law also ended the use of waivers by the Education Secretary. In post-secondary education, Obama signed the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, which ended the role of private
Obama's one education accomplishment was "legislation to teach 'comprehensive sex education' to kindergartners. [SEP] Governorship of Mitt Romney // bilingual education. During his 2002 campaign, Romney had said he backed age-appropriate, comprehensive sex education in public schools. In 2005, against the will of the state legislature, he introduced federally funded abstinence-only education programs developed by a subsidiary of a Christian anti-abortion organization into some public schools. Romney said that adoption of the programs would be voluntary for individual school districts and that the programs would supplement rather than replace existing comprehensive sex education curricula. Opponents argued that funding pressure would lead to schools dropping comprehensive sex education programs for the freely available abstinence-only ones, which under federal law were
Obama's one education accomplishment was "legislation to teach 'comprehensive sex education' to kindergartners. [SEP] Sex education // Rule was again suspended as one of the first official acts by United States President Barack Obama. The incidences of new HIV transmissions in Uganda decreased dramatically when Clinton supported a comprehensive sex education approach (including information about contraception and abortion). According to Ugandan AIDS activists, the Global Gag Rule undermined community efforts to reduce HIV prevalence and HIV transmission. Egypt teaches knowledge about male and female reproductive systems, sexual organs, contraception and STDs in public schools at the second and third years of the middle-preparatory phase (when students are aged 12–14). A coordinated program between UNDP, UNICEF, and the
Obama's one education accomplishment was "legislation to teach 'comprehensive sex education' to kindergartners. [SEP] Presidency of Barack Obama // in the military. On the international stage, Obama advocated for gay rights, particularly in Africa. The Great Recession of 2008-09 caused a sharp decline in tax revenues in all cities and states. The response was to cut education budgets. Obama's $800 billion stimulus package included $100 billion for public schools, which every state used to protect its educational budget. However, in terms of sponsoring innovation, Obama and his Education Secretary Arne Duncan pursued K-12 education reform through the Race to the Top grant program. With over $15 billion of grants at stake, 34 states quickly revised their education laws according
Obama's one education accomplishment was "legislation to teach 'comprehensive sex education' to kindergartners. [SEP] Comprehensive sex education // advances; andH. Teaches the importance of attaining self-sufficiency before engaging in sexual activity; In addition to abiding by these 8 conditions, AGEP compliant programs cannot discuss contraception, STIs, or methods for protecting against STIs, except only when describing failure rates. More recently legislation has pushed for funding that goes beyond abstinence only education. In 2010, President Obama introduced the Teen Pregnancy Prevention Program (TPP), which provides a total of $114.5 million annually to sex education programs that are "medically accurate and age-appropriate." TPP falls under a subsection of United States Department of Health and Human Services ("HHS") which is overseen
Maj. Nidal Hasan, the man accused of the Fort Hood shootings, "was an ADVISOR to the Obama Administration. [SEP] 2009 Fort Hood shooting // today cannot be disputed. Nidal has killed soldiers who were about to be deployed to Iraq and Afghanistan in order to kill Muslims." In March 2010, Al-Awlaki alleged that the Obama administration tried to portray Hasan's actions as an individual act of violence from an estranged individual, and that it was trying to suppress information for the American public. He said: Until this moment the administration is refusing to release the e-mails exchanged between myself and Nidal. And after the operation of our brother Umar Farouk the initial comments coming from the administration were looking the same – another attempt
Maj. Nidal Hasan, the man accused of the Fort Hood shootings, "was an ADVISOR to the Obama Administration. [SEP] Nidal Hasan // on August 6, Hasan—who was representing himself— admitted that he was the gunman during the Fort Hood shootings in 2009 and stated that the evidence would show that he was the shooter. He also told the panel hearing that he had "switched sides" and regarded himself as a Mujahideen waging "jihad" against the United States. By August 7, disagreements between Hasan and his stand-by defense team led Judge Osborn to temporarily suspend the proceedings. Hasan's defense attorneys were concerned that Hasan was trying to help prosecutors achieve a death sentence. Since the prosecution had sought the death penalty, his defense
Maj. Nidal Hasan, the man accused of the Fort Hood shootings, "was an ADVISOR to the Obama Administration. [SEP] Fort Hood // that day, including about two dozen who required medical attention." On 5 November 2009, a gunman opened fire in the Soldier Readiness Center of Fort Hood and killed 13 people while wounding 32 others. Nidal Malik Hasan, a U.S. Army Major and psychiatrist, was the gunman. He was shot and then arrested by Department of the Army police officers Sergeant Mark Todd and Sergeant Kimberly Munley. Eyewitnesses to the actual events said: "...Major Hasan wheeled on Sergeant Munley as she rounded the corner of a building and shot her, putting her on the ground. Then Major Hasan turned his back
Maj. Nidal Hasan, the man accused of the Fort Hood shootings, "was an ADVISOR to the Obama Administration. [SEP] Nidal Hasan // Nidal Hasan Nidal Malik Hasan (born September 8, 1970) is an American convicted of fatally shooting 13 people and injuring more than 30 others in the Fort Hood mass shooting on November 5, 2009. Hasan was a United States Army Medical Corps psychiatrist who admitted to the shootings at his court-martial in August 2013. A jury panel of 13 officers convicted him of 13 counts of premeditated murder, 32 counts of attempted murder, and unanimously recommended he be dismissed from the service and sentenced to death. Hasan is incarcerated at the United States Disciplinary Barracks at Fort Leavenworth in Kansas
Maj. Nidal Hasan, the man accused of the Fort Hood shootings, "was an ADVISOR to the Obama Administration. [SEP] Michael Mulligan // the court-martial of Nidal Malik Hasan, the sole accused in the November 2009 Fort Hood shooting. Michael Mulligan Colonel Michael Mulligan is a prosecutor in the United States Army notable for serving as the lead prosecutor in the courts-martial of Hasan Akbar and of Nidal Malik Hasan, the sole accused in the November 2009 Fort Hood shooting. The son of a trucking company manager, Michael Mulligan was born in Niagara Falls, New York and grew up in Niagara Falls, Ontario. He enjoyed playing hockey, and played as a left winger in college at SUNY Oswego. After graduating, he played professionally
Maj. Nidal Hasan, the man accused of the Fort Hood shootings, "was an ADVISOR to the Obama Administration. [SEP] 2009 Fort Hood shooting // A spokesman for the Department stated, The Department of Defense is committed to the integrity of the ongoing court martial proceedings of Major Nadal Hasan and for that reason will not further characterize, at this time, the incident that occurred at Fort Hood on November 5, 2009. Major Hassan has been charged with 13 counts of premeditated murder, and 32 counts of attempted murder. As with all pending UCMJ matters, the accused is innocent until proven guilty. A group of 160 victims and family members have asked the government to declare the Fort Hood attack an act of terrorism, which
Maj. Nidal Hasan, the man accused of the Fort Hood shootings, "was an ADVISOR to the Obama Administration. [SEP] 2009 Fort Hood shooting // worked with Hasan, said the psychiatrist expressed the hope that Obama would withdraw U.S. troops from Iraq and Afghanistan, and argued with military colleagues who supported the wars. A spokesman for the Defense Department called the shooting an "isolated and tragic case", and Defense Secretary Robert Gates pledged that his department would do "everything in its power to help the Fort Hood community get through these difficult times." The chair of the Senate Armed Services Committee, Carl Levin, and numerous politicians, expressed condolences to the victims and their families. Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano stated "we object to—and do not
Maj. Nidal Hasan, the man accused of the Fort Hood shootings, "was an ADVISOR to the Obama Administration. [SEP] Nidal Hasan // upcoming murder trial. His attorneys were to remain on the case but only if he asked for their help. Jury selection was set to start on June 5 and opening arguments were scheduled to begin on July 1. U.S. Army Judge Colonel Tara Osborn ruled on June 14, 2013, that Hasan could not claim as a part of his defense that he was defending the Taliban. In a statement released to Fox News, Hasan justified his actions during the Fort Hood shooting by claiming that the US military was at war with Islam. During the first day of the trial
Maj. Nidal Hasan, the man accused of the Fort Hood shootings, "was an ADVISOR to the Obama Administration. [SEP] 2009 Fort Hood shooting // the U.S. Army Criminal Investigation Command, and the Texas Rangers Division. As a member of the military, Hasan is subject to the jurisdiction of the Uniform Code of Military Justice (military law). He was initially represented by Belton, Texas-based John P. Galligan, a criminal defense attorney and retired US Army Colonel. Hasan regained consciousness on November 9, but refused to talk to investigators. The investigative officer in charge of his article 32 hearing was Colonel James L. Pohl, who had previously led the investigation into the Abu Ghraib abuses, and is the Chief Presiding Officer of the Guantanamo military commissions.
Maj. Nidal Hasan, the man accused of the Fort Hood shootings, "was an ADVISOR to the Obama Administration. [SEP] Nidal Hasan // relating to Hasan's early radicalization and evidence which presented the Fort Hood shooting as a "copycat" based on the actions of Hasan Akbar, a Muslim U.S. Army soldier sentenced to death for attacking fellow soldiers prior to the Iraq War. On August 20, 2013, the prosecution rested its case against Hasan. They had called nearly 90 witnesses over 11 days with the fast pace of proceedings being attributed to Hasan's refusal to cross-examine most of the witnesses. Throughout the proceedings, he only questioned three witnesses. While the defense had been scheduled to present its case on Wednesday, Hasan indicated that
Boy with rare disease gets brand new skin with gene therapy. [SEP] Genetic engineering // (CLL), and Parkinson's disease. In 2012, Alipogene tiparvovec became the first gene therapy treatment to be approved for clinical use. In 2015 a virus was used to insert a healthy gene into the skin cells of a boy suffering from a rare skin disease, epidermolysis bullosa, in order to grow, and then graft healthy skin onto 80 percent of the boy's body which was affected by the illness. Germline gene therapy would result in any change being inheritable, which has raised concerns within the scientific community. In 2015, CRISPR was used to edit the DNA of non-viable human embryos, leading
Boy with rare disease gets brand new skin with gene therapy. [SEP] Gene therapy // levels of SERCA2, a protein in heart muscles, improving muscle function. The FDA granted this a Breakthrough Therapy Designation to accelerate the trial and approval process. In 2016 it was reported that no improvement was found from the CUPID 2 trial. In July researchers reported promising results for six children with two severe hereditary diseases had been treated with a partially deactivated lentivirus to replace a faulty gene and after 7–32 months. Three of the children had metachromatic leukodystrophy, which causes children to lose cognitive and motor skills. The other children had Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome, which leaves them to open to
Boy with rare disease gets brand new skin with gene therapy. [SEP] Gene therapy // treating children with SCID (severe combined immune deficiency or "bubble boy" disease) from 2000 and 2002, was questioned when two of the ten children treated at the trial's Paris center developed a leukemia-like condition. Clinical trials were halted temporarily in 2002, but resumed after regulatory review of the protocol in the US, the United Kingdom, France, Italy, and Germany. In 1993 Andrew Gobea was born with SCID following prenatal genetic screening. Blood was removed from his mother's placenta and umbilical cord immediately after birth, to acquire stem cells. The allele that codes for adenosine deaminase (ADA) was obtained and inserted
Boy with rare disease gets brand new skin with gene therapy. [SEP] Gene therapy // infection, autoimmune diseases, and cancer. Follow up trials with gene therapy on another six children with Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome were also reported as promising. In October researchers reported that two children born with adenosine deaminase severe combined immunodeficiency disease (ADA-SCID) had been treated with genetically engineered stem cells 18 months previously and that their immune systems were showing signs of full recovery. Another three children were making progress. In 2014 a further 18 children with ADA-SCID were cured by gene therapy. ADA-SCID children have no functioning immune system and are sometimes known as "bubble children." Also in October researchers reported that
Boy with rare disease gets brand new skin with gene therapy. [SEP] Gene therapy // had treated a baby girl, Layla Richards, with an experimental treatment using donor T-cells genetically engineered using TALEN to attack cancer cells. One year after the treatment she was still free of her cancer (a highly aggressive form of acute lymphoblastic leukaemia [ALL]). Children with highly aggressive ALL normally have a very poor prognosis and Layla's disease had been regarded as terminal before the treatment. In December, scientists of major world academies called for a moratorium on inheritable human genome edits, including those related to CRISPR-Cas9 technologies but that basic research including embryo gene editing should continue. In April the
Boy with rare disease gets brand new skin with gene therapy. [SEP] Gene therapy // 2009 in a trial with a genetically engineered virus with a rare mutation (CCR5 deficiency) known to protect against HIV with promising results. Clinical trials of gene therapy for sickle cell disease were started in 2014. There is a need for high quality randomised controlled trials assessing the risks and benefits involved with gene therapy for people with sickle cell disease. In February LentiGlobin BB305, a gene therapy treatment undergoing clinical trials for treatment of beta thalassemia gained FDA "breakthrough" status after several patients were able to forgo the frequent blood transfusions usually required to treat the disease. In March
Boy with rare disease gets brand new skin with gene therapy. [SEP] Gene therapy // Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use of the European Medicines Agency endorsed a gene therapy treatment called Strimvelis and the European Commission approved it in June. This treats children born with adenosine deaminase deficiency and who have no functioning immune system. This was the second gene therapy treatment to be approved in Europe. In October, Chinese scientists reported they had started a trial to genetically modify T-cells from 10 adult patients with lung cancer and reinject the modified T-cells back into their bodies to attack the cancer cells. The T-cells had the PD-1 protein (which stops or slows the
Boy with rare disease gets brand new skin with gene therapy. [SEP] Genetically modified organism // rising from adenosine deaminase deficiency (ADA-SCID), although the development of leukemia in some ADA-SCID patients along with the death of Jesse Gelsinger in another trial set back the development of this approach for many years. In 2009 another breakthrough was achieved when an eight year old boy with Leber’s congenital amaurosis regained normal eyesight and in 2016 GlaxoSmithKline gained approval to commercialise a gene therapy treatment for ADA-SCID. As of 2018, there are a substantial number of clinical trials underway, including treatments for hemophilia, glioblastoma, chronic granulomatous disease, cystic fibrosis and various cancers. The most common virus used for gene
Boy with rare disease gets brand new skin with gene therapy. [SEP] Gene therapy // increased immune response to HIV antigens and other pathogens. This was the first evaluation of a lentiviral vector administered in a US human clinical trial. In May researchers announced the first gene therapy trial for inherited retinal disease. The first operation was carried out on a 23-year-old British male, Robert Johnson, in early 2007. Leber's congenital amaurosis is an inherited blinding disease caused by mutations in the RPE65 gene. The results of a small clinical trial in children were published in April. Delivery of recombinant adeno-associated virus (AAV) carrying RPE65 yielded positive results. In May two more groups reported positive
Boy with rare disease gets brand new skin with gene therapy. [SEP] Gene therapy of the human retina // Gene therapy of the human retina Retinal gene therapy holds a promise in treating different forms of non-inherited and inherited blindness. In 2008, three independent research groups reported that patients with the rare genetic retinal disease Leber's congenital amaurosis had been successfully treated using gene therapy with adeno-associated virus (AAV). In all three studies, an AAV vector was used to deliver a functional copy of the RPE65 gene, which restored vision in children suffering from LCA. These results were widely seen as a success in the gene therapy field, and have generated excitement and momentum for AAV-mediated applications in retinal
Washington state cannabis retailer opens in defiance of county ban. [SEP] Cannabis in Washington (state) // as distribution and sales were strictly regulated by the state. On November 18, 2013, the state began accepting applications for marijuana businesses including growers, processors and retail outlets. The Liquor Control Board initially planned to allow 334 retail stores and of growing space statewide. The first recreational cannabis stores in Washington opened to the public on July 8, 2014. In accordance with the Federal 2014 Farm Bill, the state legislature passed ESSB 6206 in 2016, creating the Industrial Hemp Research Pilot (IHRP). The state's first post-Prohibition hemp crop was planted at Moses Lake in 2017, and a total of was
Washington state cannabis retailer opens in defiance of county ban. [SEP] Cannabis in Washington (state) // went ignored by law enforcement. By 2011, there were around 75 storefront dispensaries open in Seattle and 55 in Spokane. That same year, the state legislature passed an overhaul of medical marijuana laws, which would have created a system of state-licensed growers, processors and dispensaries. Governor Christine Gregoire, however, vetoed most of the new legislation, explaining that she would "not subject [...] state employees to federal prosecution." In April 2011, United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Washington Michael C. Ormsby ordered all dispensaries operating in Spokane to cease operations. Most complied, but several owners who refused to close
Washington state cannabis retailer opens in defiance of county ban. [SEP] Cannabis in Washington (state) // by law enforcement. The cooperative, run by Joanna McKee and Ronald L. (Stich) Miller, provided cannabis at little or no cost to over 70 patients with diseases such as AIDS, cancer, and multiple sclerosis. Both McKee and Miller were arrested, and around 130 cannabis plants were seized. The case was later dismissed when a Kitsap County judge ruled that the search warrant used to execute the raid was invalid. McKee and Miller moved the co-op to Seattle and resumed operations. In reaction to the raid against the Green Cross Patient Co-op, an attorney from Tacoma named Ralph Seeley sued the
Washington state cannabis retailer opens in defiance of county ban. [SEP] Initiative 71 // for allegedly selling paraphernalia. As required in a deferred prosecution agreement with U.S. Attorneys, owners Adam Eidinger and Alan Amsterdam were forced to shut down the stores in September 2012 and decided to start the process to change the law. In early 2013, local activists Adam Eidinger and Nikolas Schiller formed a skeleton organization "DCMJ" to advocate decriminalization of marijuana in the District. After seeing no movement from the Council of the District of Columbia, Eidinger submitted initial paperwork for a decriminalization ballot initiative, which was rejected by the Board of Election in September 2013 on technical budgetary grounds. The
Washington state cannabis retailer opens in defiance of county ban. [SEP] Washington Initiative 502 // Kennedy have started Project SAM to promote what they call "smart approaches to marijuana." Initial draft rules were released on May 16, with the public comment period set to end on June 10, 2013. Public hearings shall begin in August for rules to become effective in September and first licenses expected in December 2013 or the following January. Consultants estimate $495 million in annual sales among 300 stores across all counties, the highest concentration being in King, Pierce and Thurston counties. The first two dozen retail licenses were issued for July 2014, but delays in licensing producers are anticipated to
Washington state cannabis retailer opens in defiance of county ban. [SEP] Cannabis in Washington (state) // their stores were arrested. Later that year, federal raids on medical marijuana dispensaries also occurred in western Washington. 15 dispensaries were targeted in cities including Seattle, Tacoma, Olympia, Puyallup, Lacey and Rochester. In spite of federal prohibition, public support in the state for marijuana reform continued to grow. In 2003, Seattle passed an initiative making adult marijuana possession the lowest priority of law enforcement agencies in the city. Tacoma passed a similar initiative in 2011. A 2010 poll by the University of Washington found that 52% of Washington voters supported removing criminal and civil penalties for marijuana possession. In early
Washington state cannabis retailer opens in defiance of county ban. [SEP] Cannabis on American Indian reservations // grow operations on two reservations in Modoc County in Northern California. Plants and prepared cannabis were seized, but no arrests were made; news reporting indicated that the informant whose complaint sparked the raid was involved in a political power struggle with one of the growers, who is also her brother. "The Washington Post" in 2014 noted that the Yakama Nation of Washington State, following the state's legalization of cannabis, opposed legalization in ten state counties containing what the tribe considers its traditional lands. Cannabis on American Indian reservations Cannabis on American Indian reservations historically largely fell under the same regulations
Washington state cannabis retailer opens in defiance of county ban. [SEP] Cannabis in Washington (state) // or processor licenses. Growers may only legally sell cannabis to licensed processors or retailers—not directly to consumers. Unlike other states that have legalized recreational cannabis, Washington does not allow unlicensed cultivation for personal use. In May 2014, the Liquor and Cannabis Board held a lottery to award licenses to qualified applicants. Retail sales began in July 2014. As retailers only had two months to establish storefronts and acquire inventory, stores experienced supply issues during the summer of 2014. This caused limited availability and inflated prices for consumers. During the first several months of legal sales, prices exceeded US$20 per gram.
Washington state cannabis retailer opens in defiance of county ban. [SEP] Washington State Liquor and Cannabis Board // sole distributor of all liquors and spirits in the state. In addition, they were also the primary retailer: the state operated 167 stores, while 163 stores were operated by private businesses who contracted with the state for a commission on the sales. These contract stores were generally located in either smaller cities or more remote and rural areas, while the state stores were typically located in larger, more populated areas. Because the state was the sole distributor of all spirits, uniform pricing was set so that the price of any given product was the same from store to store no
Washington state cannabis retailer opens in defiance of county ban. [SEP] Washington State Liquor and Cannabis Board // state funding. As a result, the agency no longer hires entry level law enforcement officers. The current Chief of the Enforcement and Education Division is Justin Nordhorn. The Division has regional offices in Federal Way, Tacoma, Spokane, Mountlake Terrace and Mount Vernon as well as field offices in Seattle and Pasco. In 2005, the Seattle City Council asked the Liquor Control Board to prohibit the sale of certain low-priced, highly-alcoholic beverages in an impoverished "Alcohol Impact Area." The City requested the order after an earlier, "Good Neighbor" policy, in which the city requested convenience stores and liquor outlets in areas
Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez is an actress playing a congresswoman to push the agenda of Justice Democrats. [SEP] Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez // her campaign for criminal justice reform in an article in "America", the magazine of the Jesuit order in the United States. At a 2018 Hanukkah party held by activist group Jews for Racial & Economic Justice, Ocasio-Cortez also announced that her family has Sephardic Jewish ancestry, but did not practice the faith. During the 2018 election campaign, Ocasio-Cortez resided in Parkchester, Bronx. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (born October 13, 1989), sometimes referred to by her initials AOC, is an American politician and educator. She is the U.S. Representative-elect for New York's 14th congressional district, elected on November 6, 2018. On
Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez is an actress playing a congresswoman to push the agenda of Justice Democrats. [SEP] Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez // among a slate of nationwide Justice Democrats/Brand New Congress candidacy announcements livestreamed on May 16, 2017. In August 2017, she attended the Netroots Nation Conference in Atlanta, appearing on a panel with fellow candidates on "how to run a grassroots campaign that puts people above party".<ref name="Netroots Nation Aug. 2017/C-SPAN"></ref> Ocasio-Cortez was the first person since 2004 to challenge the Democratic Caucus Chair, Joe Crowley, in the Democratic primary. She faced a significant financial disadvantage, but said, "You can't really beat big money with more money. You have to beat them with a totally different game." Nearly 75% of her
Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez is an actress playing a congresswoman to push the agenda of Justice Democrats. [SEP] Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez // Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (born October 13, 1989), sometimes referred to by her initials AOC, is an American politician and educator. She is the U.S. Representative-elect for New York's 14th congressional district, elected on November 6, 2018. On June 26, 2018, Ocasio-Cortez won the Democratic primary in New York's 14th congressional district covering parts of the Bronx and Queens in New York City, defeating the incumbent Congressman, Democratic Caucus Chair Joe Crowley, in what was described as the biggest upset victory in the 2018 midterm election primaries. Ocasio-Cortez is a member of the Democratic Socialists of America. When she takes
Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez is an actress playing a congresswoman to push the agenda of Justice Democrats. [SEP] Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez // 39 seats. After the election, Ocasio-Cortez chose Justice Democrats co-founder Saikat Chakrabarti as her chief of staff. On the first day of congressional orientation, Ocasio-Cortez participated in a climate change protest outside the office of House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi. Ocasio-Cortez backs Pelosi for Speaker of the House once the Democratic Party reclaims the majority in 2019, under the condition that she "remains the most progressive candidate for speaker." Ocasio-Cortez enters Congress with no seniority but with a large social media presence that could increase her influence in the House. "Axios" has credited her with as much social media clout
Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez is an actress playing a congresswoman to push the agenda of Justice Democrats. [SEP] Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez // office on January 3, 2019, at the age of 29, Ocasio-Cortez will be the youngest woman to serve in Congress in the history of the United States, a distinction that was previously held by New York Republican Elise Stefanik, who was elected at age 30 in 2014. Ocasio-Cortez was born in The Bronx, New York City, on October 13, 1989, to Blanca Ocasio-Cortez () and Sergio Ocasio. Her father, an architect of Puerto Rican descent, was born in the Bronx, while her mother was born in Puerto Rico. Until age five, Ocasio-Cortez lived with her family in an apartment in
Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez is an actress playing a congresswoman to push the agenda of Justice Democrats. [SEP] Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez // August 8 in the Bronx and August 12 in Corona, Queens. Ocasio-Cortez has been the subject of negative press coverage from right-leaning media outlets since her Democratic primary win in June 2018. Some news outlets, such as Fox News and the Washington Examiner, were criticized for their coverage that mocked Ocasio-Cortez's outfit choices. In July 2018, conservative news outlet CRTV published a doctored video that featured footage of Ocasio-Cortez from a previous interview with PBS, spliced to appear as answers to questions read by CRTV commentator Allie Stuckey. CRTV later added a discaimer that labeled the video as satire as
Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez is an actress playing a congresswoman to push the agenda of Justice Democrats. [SEP] Kyle Kulinski // written in the early 2000s which they argued were sexist against women. Kulinski stated that he disagreed with the staff's decision, but he still wanted to respect their wishes. However, he stated that he still intended to support Justice Democrats' candidates. As such, his was one of the only news outlets who reported on Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez's primary challenge against Joe Crowley before her victory was announced. Kyle Kulinski Kyle Kulinski (born January 31, 1988) is an American political activist, progressive talk radio host, social democratic political commentator and the co-founder of Justice Democrats. He is the host and producer of
Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez is an actress playing a congresswoman to push the agenda of Justice Democrats. [SEP] Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez // to people affected by the human rights violations related to the Flint water crisis and the Dakota Access Pipeline. In an interview she recalled her visit to Standing Rock as a tipping point, saying that before that, she had felt that the only way to effectively run for office was if you had access to wealth, social influence, and power. But her visit to North Dakota, where she saw others "putting their whole lives and everything that they had on the line for the protection of their community", inspired her to begin to work for her own community. Ocasio-Cortez was
Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez is an actress playing a congresswoman to push the agenda of Justice Democrats. [SEP] Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez // involved in a long probate battle to settle his estate. She has said that the experience helped her learn "firsthand how attorneys appointed by the court to administer an estate can enrich themselves at the expense of the families struggling to make sense of the bureaucracy". After college, Ocasio-Cortez moved back to the Bronx, while she worked as a bartender in Manhattan and as a waitress in a taqueria. Her mother, meanwhile, cleaned houses and drove school buses. After her father's death, Ocasio-Cortez and her mother struggled to fight foreclosure of their home. With financial backing from Sunshine Bronx Business
Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez is an actress playing a congresswoman to push the agenda of Justice Democrats. [SEP] Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez // primary election, Ocasio-Cortez attended a protest at an ICE child-detention center in Tornillo, Texas. On June 28, 2018, Ocasio-Cortez told CNN she would support the impeachment of President Trump, citing Trump's alleged violations of the Emoluments Clause and stating that "we have to hold everyone accountable and that no person is above that law.” In May, 2018, Ocasio-Cortez criticized the Israel Defense Forces' use of deadly force after Palestinian protesters participating in the 2018 Gaza border protests were killed. In a July 2018 interview with the PBS series "Firing Line", Ocasio-Cortez clarified that she is "a proponent of a two-state
Blogger Says Nancy Pelosi was “caught trying to include abortion funding in bill to combat coronavirus.” [SEP] Nancy Pelosi // of funding for organizations working overseas that uses its own funds to provide abortion services or engage in advocacy related to abortion services (HA 997, rejected). She also voted in favor of the 1998 Abortion Funding Amendment, which would have allowed the use of district funds to promote abortion-related activities, but would have prohibited the use of federal funds. In February 2009, Pelosi met with her bishop, Archbishop George Hugh Niederauer of San Francisco, and with Pope Benedict XVI as a result of comments she made to Tom Brokaw on "Meet the Press" that many observers felt inaccurately portrayed Church
Blogger Says Nancy Pelosi was “caught trying to include abortion funding in bill to combat coronavirus.” [SEP] Nancy Pelosi // little more our way from time to time". Pelosi voted against the Partial-Birth Abortion Ban Act of 2003 and earlier attempts at similar bans, and voted against the criminalization of certain situations where a minor is transported across state lines for an abortion (HR 748, passed). She has voted in favor of lifting the ban on privately funded abortions at U.S. military facilities overseas (HA 209, rejected), in favor of an amendment that would repeal a provision that forbids service women and dependents from getting an abortion in overseas military hospitals (HA 722, rejected), in favor of stripping the prohibition
Blogger Says Nancy Pelosi was “caught trying to include abortion funding in bill to combat coronavirus.” [SEP] No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act // proposed Protect Life Act and efforts to defund Planned Parenthood, as a move that will backfire on the Republican Party. He writes that Democrats such as Rep. Steve Israel (D-NY), chair of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, already are and will continue to be pointing out that the party made its top priority redefining rape, and otherwise focusing on social issues, rather than creating jobs. No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act The No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act () is a bill that was introduced to the 112th Congress of the United States in the House of Representatives by Rep.
Blogger Says Nancy Pelosi was “caught trying to include abortion funding in bill to combat coronavirus.” [SEP] No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act // critic, Mother Jones, alleged that the bill is a deliberate attempt on the part of the Republican Party to change the legal definition of rape. Another critic, Representative Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL) criticized the legislation, too. An article in The Raw Story had this to say about her reaction to HR 3. "The Florida Democrat, a rising star in her party and vice chair of the Democratic National Committee, is a leading voice on women's issues. And she didn't mince her words in an interview with The Raw Story, fiercely denouncing GOP colleagues over H.R. 3, the "No Taxpayer Funding
Blogger Says Nancy Pelosi was “caught trying to include abortion funding in bill to combat coronavirus.” [SEP] Lois Capps // taxpayer-funding of abortions (except in the cases of rape, incest, or threat to the mother's life). Capps had earlier sponsored the Capps Amendment, which was defeated and replaced by the Stupak Amendment. Capps introduced the National Pediatric Research Network Act of 2013 which would, if enacted, authorize the NIH to support, fund, and coordinate data from research on rare pediatric diseases. In 2012, she was the only member of the House to vote "no" on Resolution 556 to condemn the government of Iran for its continued persecution, imprisonment, and sentencing of Youcef Nadarkhani of the charge of apostasy. The resolution
Blogger Says Nancy Pelosi was “caught trying to include abortion funding in bill to combat coronavirus.” [SEP] Bruce Poliquin // Matt Dunlap called the claims "a distraction" and cautioned the campaign to avoid "irresponsible" attempts to slow down the tabulation process and erode constituent faith in the system. In January 2015, Poliquin voted for the No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act. Poliquin introduced his first bill on April 29, 2015, the Child Support Assistance Act of 2015. Co-sponsored with Rep. Keith Ellison (D-MN), it is intended to help single parents secure child support payments by making it harder for the other parent to hide property or funds. The bill was rolled into a transportation bill which passed Congress and was
Blogger Says Nancy Pelosi was “caught trying to include abortion funding in bill to combat coronavirus.” [SEP] Joe Donnelly // for a 20-week abortion ban and co-sponsored a bill that would prohibit transporting a minor across state lines for an abortion. In 2011, he co-sponsored HR 3, the No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act. He voted to defund Planned Parenthood before 2015, but has since voted in support of Planned Parenthood. In August 2015, his campaign treasurer, Kathy Davis, who had worked on a volunteer basis for four years, resigned from his campaign because he voted to defund Planned Parenthood after videos surfaced of Planned Parenthood officials discussing fetal tissue donations. He was one of only two Democratic Senators who
Blogger Says Nancy Pelosi was “caught trying to include abortion funding in bill to combat coronavirus.” [SEP] Rebecca Kiessling // serves as co-founder of Hope After Rape Conception and Embryo Defense. Kiessling is critical of anti-abortion legislations that did not include a rape exception, including the Hyde Amendment which bans taxpayer funding on abortion, and the Affordable Care Act which she has described as "a joke that holds no weight". She has also criticized Republicans New Jersey Representative Chris Smith for introducing the No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act, and Senator Rick Santorum for having referred to children conceived through rape as a "gift from God" in one of his presidential campaigns in 2012. She also condemned then-Indiana state treasurer
Blogger Says Nancy Pelosi was “caught trying to include abortion funding in bill to combat coronavirus.” [SEP] Political positions of Paul Ryan // 227 House co-sponsors of the 2011 No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act bill that would have limited funding for federally funded abortions to victims of "forcible rape". "Forcible rape" was not defined in the bill, which critics said would result in excluding date rape, statutory rape, or other situations where the victim had diminished mental capacity. The language was removed from the bill before the House passed it; the Senate did not vote on the bill. The National Right to Life Committee has consistently given Ryan a "100 percent pro-life voting record" since he took office in 1999. In 2012
Blogger Says Nancy Pelosi was “caught trying to include abortion funding in bill to combat coronavirus.” [SEP] No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act // No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act The No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act () is a bill that was introduced to the 112th Congress of the United States in the House of Representatives by Rep. Chris Smith (R-New Jersey) and Dan Lipinski (D-Illinois). Although the bill is a bipartisan effort, most of the 173 co-sponsors are Republicans. The bill's stated purpose is "[t]o prohibit taxpayer funded abortions and to provide for conscience protections, and for other purposes." In large measure, it would render permanent the restrictions on federal funding of abortion in the United States laid out in the Hyde
California’s Prop 55 "prevents $4 billion in new cuts to our schools. [SEP] 2016 California Proposition 55 // spent $58.6 million fighting for the measure, with the top donor being $25 million from a hospital trade association. An additional $20 million was donated by the California Teachers Association, with other top donors including the Service Employees International Union, and the California School Employees Association. The measure was supported by the editorial boards of "The Sacramento Bee" and "The Mercury News". Opponents spent $3,000 fighting against the measure. The California Chamber of Commerce, who were neutral on the 2012 tax increase, opposed Proposition 55. The measure was opposed by the editorial boards of the "Los Angeles Times", the "San
California’s Prop 55 "prevents $4 billion in new cuts to our schools. [SEP] 2016 California Proposition 55 // 2016 California Proposition 55 Proposition 55 is a California ballot proposition that passed on the November 8, 2016 ballot, regarding extending by twelve years the temporary personal income tax increases enacted in 2012 on earnings over $250,000, with revenues allocated to K–12 schools, California Community Colleges, and, in certain years, healthcare. Proposition 55 will raise tax revenue by between $4 billion and $9 billion a year. Half of funds will go to schools and community colleges, up to $2 billion a year would go to Medi-Cal, and up to $1.5 billion will be saved and applied to debt. California voters
California’s Prop 55 "prevents $4 billion in new cuts to our schools. [SEP] Amador Valley High School // to the "Washington Post", the "severe" limitations this imposed on state funding forced local governments and most school districts in California to make "drastic cutbacks". Furthermore, an article in the "Los Angeles Times" noted that Federal aid money for Californian schools, worth about $98 million each year, may be reduced if state-funded programs are cut. A recent Congressional report had found that Proposition 13 would not result in any major "local spending" cuts. In order to receive Federal aid, the state needed to maintain present levels of spending on local programs or secure local matching funds. However, the enforcement of
California’s Prop 55 "prevents $4 billion in new cuts to our schools. [SEP] 2016 California Proposition 62 // both Proposition 62 and Proposition 66, then the measure with the most "Yes" votes would have taken effect. Proposition 62 was estimated to reduce state spending by $150 million a year. Proponents spent $8.9 million fighting for Proposition 62, with the top contribution being $1.5 million from Stanford University professor Nick McKeown. Other top contributing proponents include Tom Steyer, Reed Hastings, John Doerr, and Paul Graham. The measure was supported by the editorial boards of the "Los Angeles Times", the "San Francisco Chronicle", and "The Sacramento Bee". Opponents spent $4.4 million fighting against Proposition 62, with the top contribution being
California’s Prop 55 "prevents $4 billion in new cuts to our schools. [SEP] 2008 California Proposition 92 // Additionally, 10.46 percent of current Proposition 98 school funding maintenance would have been allocated to community colleges. Furthermore, community college fees would have froze at $15/unit per semester and limit future increase based upon a devised formula. Other associated budgetary allocations earmarked for the current K-14 system would also have been divided accordingly. Proposition was projected to amount to an increase in state spending on K–14 education from 2007–08 through 2009–10—averaging about $300 million per year, with unknown impacts annually thereafter. The loss of student fee revenues would have been potentially about $70 million annually. Currently, student fees of $20/unit,
California’s Prop 55 "prevents $4 billion in new cuts to our schools. [SEP] 2002 California Proposition 47 // the principal ($13.05 billion) and interest ($13.15 billion) costs on the bonds at a state level. This will consist of payments of about $873 million per year. 2002 California Proposition 47 Proposition 47 was a proposition in the state of California on the November 5, 2002 ballot. The official title was "Kindergarten-University Public Education Facilities Bond Act of 2002." The proposition passed with 4,138,826 (59.1%) votes in favor and 2,869,577 (40.9%) against. It was placed on the ballot by a vote of the state legislature on AB 16. When put on the ballot, the question before voters was: The passing
California’s Prop 55 "prevents $4 billion in new cuts to our schools. [SEP] 2002 California Proposition 49 // and after school programs resulted in an additional annual state costs of up to $455 million, beginning in 2004–05. List of California ballot propositions 2000-present 2002 California Proposition 49 Proposition 49 was a proposition in the state of California on the November 5, 2002 ballot. The official title was "The After School Education and Safety Program Act of 2002." The proposition passed with 3,946,448 (56.7%) votes in favor and 3,023,433 (43.3%) against. It was placed on the ballot through the initiative process. The proposition was heavily pushed and backed by actor Arnold Schwarzenegger, and its passage marked his first political
California’s Prop 55 "prevents $4 billion in new cuts to our schools. [SEP] 2016 California Proposition 51 // 2016 California Proposition 51 Proposition 51 is a California ballot proposition that passed on the November 8, 2016 ballot, regarding $9 billion in bonds to fund construction and improvement of K-12 and community college facilities. The measure designates $7 billion for K-12 projects falling under four types of projects (new construction, modernization, career technical education facilities, and charter school facilities), and $2 billion for any facility project for community colleges. No other bond measures related to education have been on the California ballot since 2006. There was bipartisan support for Prop 51. Arguments for the measure stated that K-12 and
California’s Prop 55 "prevents $4 billion in new cuts to our schools. [SEP] Education in California // of dealing with the high dropout rate in California. It was implemented in 1985 and was expanded in 2004 due to its success in lowering the state's dropout rate. Senate Bill 65 initiated three new dropout prevention efforts: the Pupil Motivation and Maintenance Program, the Alternative Education Outreach Consultant (AEOC) Program, and the Educational Clinic Program. According to Governor Jerry Brown in 2014, "almost 30% are either undocumented or don't speak English." In 2016, California's K-12 public school per-pupil spending was ranked 22nd in the nation ($11,500 / student vs. $11,800 for the US average). For 2012, California's public schools
California’s Prop 55 "prevents $4 billion in new cuts to our schools. [SEP] 2016 California Proposition 55 // Francisco Chronicle", and "The Wall Street Journal". A September 2016 poll by the Public Policy Institute of California showed that 54% of likely voters supported Proposition 55, 38% opposed it, and 8% did not know how they would vote. Proposition 55 was approved by voters in the November general election, with 63% voting yes. 2016 California Proposition 55 Proposition 55 is a California ballot proposition that passed on the November 8, 2016 ballot, regarding extending by twelve years the temporary personal income tax increases enacted in 2012 on earnings over $250,000, with revenues allocated to K–12 schools, California Community Colleges,
Amazon founder Jeff Bezos was building another mansion with elevators and 25 bathrooms at the same time part-time Whole Foods employees lost health benefits. [SEP] Jeff Bezos // Senator Bernie Sanders introduced the Stop Bad Employers by Zeroing Out Subsidies (Stop BEZOS) Act and accused Amazon of receiving corporate welfare. This followed revelations by the non-profit group New Food Economy which found that one third of Amazon workers in Arizona, and one tenth of Amazon workers in Pennsylvania and Ohio, relied on food stamps. While preparing to introduce the bill, Sanders opined "Instead of attempting to explore Mars or go to the moon, how about Jeff Bezos pays his workers a living wage?" He later said "Bezos could play a profound role. If he said today, nobody who
Amazon founder Jeff Bezos was building another mansion with elevators and 25 bathrooms at the same time part-time Whole Foods employees lost health benefits. [SEP] Jeff Bezos // response from the public since 2016. Bezos has been known to publicly contest claims made in critical articles, as exemplified in 2015 when he sent a memo to employees denouncing a "New York Times" piece. Bezos used what he called a "regret-minimization framework" while he worked at D. E. Shaw and again during the early years of Amazon. He described this life philosophy by stating: "When I'm 80, am I going to regret leaving Wall Street? No. Will I regret missing the beginning of the Internet? Yes." During the 1990s and early 2000s at Amazon, he was characterized as trying
Amazon founder Jeff Bezos was building another mansion with elevators and 25 bathrooms at the same time part-time Whole Foods employees lost health benefits. [SEP] Jeff Bezos // & Co, a newly founded hedge fund, in 1990 and worked there until 1994. Bezos became D. E. Shaw's fourth senior vice-president at the age of 30. In late 1993, Bezos decided to start an online bookstore. He left his job at D. E. Shaw and founded Amazon in his garage on July 5, 1994, after writing its business plan on a trip from New York to Seattle. Bezos named his new company "Amazon" after the Amazon River in South America, in part because the name begins with the letter "A," which is at the beginning of the alphabet. He
Amazon founder Jeff Bezos was building another mansion with elevators and 25 bathrooms at the same time part-time Whole Foods employees lost health benefits. [SEP] Jeff Bezos // is employed at Amazon will receive less than a living wage, it would send a message to every corporation in America." Sanders's efforts elicited a response from Amazon which pointed to the 130,000 jobs it created in 2017 and called the $28,446 figure for its median salary "misleading" as it included part-time workers. However, Sanders countered that the companies targeted by his proposal have placed an increased focus on part-time workers to escape benefit obligations. On October 2, Bezos announced a company-wide wage increase which Sanders applauded. The American workers who were being paid the minimum wage had this increased
Amazon founder Jeff Bezos was building another mansion with elevators and 25 bathrooms at the same time part-time Whole Foods employees lost health benefits. [SEP] Jeff Bezos // total of only six hours a year. Instead of using PowerPoints, Bezos requires high-level employees to present information with six-page narratives. Starting in 1998, Bezos publishes an annual letter for Amazon shareholders wherein he frequently refers to five principles: focus on customers not competitors, take risks for market leadership, facilitate staff morality, build a company culture, and empower people. Bezos maintains the email address "jeff@amazon.com" as an outlet for customers to reach out to him and the company. Although he does not respond to the emails, he forwards some of them with a question mark in the subject line to
Amazon founder Jeff Bezos was building another mansion with elevators and 25 bathrooms at the same time part-time Whole Foods employees lost health benefits. [SEP] Unfulfilled // family’s frequent purchases on that website are driving it deeper into debt. In addition, many local businesses have closed since the center opened, due to the public's preference for buying things online. Stephen's co-worker, Josh Carter, is accidentally grabbed by a sorting robot and compressed into a small package, which Amazon blames on "human error." This outrages the facility's boxers, who go on strike, shutting down the fulfillment center, and delaying the fulfillment of the public's orders. Members of the public form a counter-protest urging the boxers to return to work so that they can receive their purchases. Jeff Bezos,
Amazon founder Jeff Bezos was building another mansion with elevators and 25 bathrooms at the same time part-time Whole Foods employees lost health benefits. [SEP] Jeff Bezos // 1990s, Bezos earned a reputation for relentlessly pushing Amazon forward, often at the expense of public charity and social welfare. His business practices projected a public image of prudence and parsimony with his own wealth and that of Amazon. Bezos was a multi-billionaire who hung his clothes on a rack in his Amazon headquarters office and drove a 1996 Honda Accord. Throughout the early 2000s, he was perceived to be geeky or nerdy, often wearing ill-fitting clothing and making a variety of social missteps. Bezos was seen by the public as needlessly quantitative and data-driven. This perception was detailed by
Amazon founder Jeff Bezos was building another mansion with elevators and 25 bathrooms at the same time part-time Whole Foods employees lost health benefits. [SEP] Jeff Bezos // labor rights, and satisfactory working conditions of select Amazon workers. On July 17, 2018 he was designated the "wealthiest person in modern history" by the Bloomberg Billionaires Index, "Fortune", "MarketWatch", "The Wall Street Journal", and "Forbes". In 1992, Bezos was working for D. E. Shaw in Manhattan, New York, when he met novelist MacKenzie Tuttle, who was a research associate at the firm; they were married a year later. In 1994, they moved across the country to Seattle, Washington, where Bezos founded Amazon. He and his wife are the parents of four children: three sons, and one daughter adopted from
Amazon founder Jeff Bezos was building another mansion with elevators and 25 bathrooms at the same time part-time Whole Foods employees lost health benefits. [SEP] Jeff Bezos // Jeff Bezos Jeffrey Preston Bezos (; born Jorgensen; January 12, 1964) is an American technology entrepreneur, investor, and philanthropist. He is the founder, chairman, and chief executive officer (CEO) of Amazon. Bezos was born in Albuquerque, New Mexico, and raised in Houston, Texas. He graduated from Princeton University in 1986 with degrees in electrical engineering and computer science. He worked on Wall Street in a variety of related fields from 1986 to early 1994. He founded Amazon in late 1994 on a cross-country road trip from New York City to Seattle. The company began as an online bookstore and has
Amazon founder Jeff Bezos was building another mansion with elevators and 25 bathrooms at the same time part-time Whole Foods employees lost health benefits. [SEP] Jeff Bezos // to quantify all aspects of running the company, often listing employees on spreadsheets and basing executive decisions on data. To push Amazon forward, Bezos developed the mantra "Get Big Fast", which spoke to the company's need to scale its operations and establish market dominance. He favored diverting Amazon profits back into the company in lieu of allocating it amongst shareholders in the form of dividends. Bezos uses the term "work–life harmony" instead of the more standard work–life balance because he believes balance implies that you can have one and not the other. He believes that work and home life are
Elon Musk once tweeted: "If one day, my words are against science, choose science. [SEP] Elon Musk // Two days later, Musk issued an apology for his remarks: "The fault is mine and mine alone" and "my words were spoken in anger". On August 28, 2018, in response to criticism from a writer on Twitter regarding how Musk had handled the diver's criticism, Musk circled back to the pedophilia accusation tweeting "You don't think it's strange he hasn't sued me? He was offered free legal services. ...". The following day, a letter from L. Lin Wood, the rescuer's attorney, dated August 6, emerged, showing that he had been making preparations for a libel lawsuit. On 5 September 2018,
Elon Musk once tweeted: "If one day, my words are against science, choose science. [SEP] Elon Musk // Urban planning expert Brent Toderian started the hashtag #GreatThingsThatHappenedonTransit which was widely adopted by Twitter users in order to dispel Musk's notion that everybody hated public transport. Yonah Freemark, an urbanist and journalist specialising in planning and transportation, summarised Musk's views on public transport as "It's terrible. You might be killed. Japanese trains are awful. Individualized transport for everyone! Congestion? Induced demand? Climate change impacts? Unwalkable streets? Who cares!" Jarrett Walker, a known public transport expert and consultant from Portland, said that "Musk's hatred of sharing space with strangers is a luxury (or pathology) that only the rich can afford,"
Elon Musk once tweeted: "If one day, my words are against science, choose science. [SEP] Elon Musk // games will become indistinguishable from reality, just indistinguishable. Musk's dark warnings over artificial intelligence have brought him some controversy. He and Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg have clashed, with the latter calling his warnings irresponsible. Musk responded to Zuckerberg's censure by saying that he had discussed AI with Zuckerberg and found him to have only a limited understanding of the subject. In 2014, Slate's Adam Elkus argued that current AIs were as intelligent as a toddlers, and only in certain fields, going on to say that Musk's "summoning the demon" analogy may be harmful because it could result in significant cuts
Elon Musk once tweeted: "If one day, my words are against science, choose science. [SEP] Matthew Chapman (author) // business leaders and innovators, almost every major science organization in America, Elon Musk (Tesla), former members of Obama's science cabinet, and many people in the arts, including Johnny Depp, Mark Ruffalo, David Schwimmer, and actor/environmentalist, Peter Coyote. Although the candidates have not yet agreed to a science debate, from 2008 on all final candidates have answered 14 to 20 science questions publicly asked by ScienceDebate.org. This includes Barack Obama (twice), John McCain, Mitt Romney, Donald J. Trump, Hillary Clinton, Jill Stein, and Gary Johnson. When published online and in news media their answers reach many hundred of millions of people.
Elon Musk once tweeted: "If one day, my words are against science, choose science. [SEP] Elon Musk // to "bless [the] launch" before an important Falcon 1 launch. When asked whether he believed that religion and science could co-exist, Musk said most likely not. Although Musk believes there could be simple life on other planets, he is unsure whether other intelligent life is likely. Musk later said that he "hope[s] that there is other intelligent life in the known universe," and stated that it is "probably more likely than not, but that's a complete guess." Musk has also considered the simulation hypothesis as a potential solution to the Fermi paradox: The absence of any noticeable life may be
Elon Musk once tweeted: "If one day, my words are against science, choose science. [SEP] Wait But Why // 2014, Urban posted "The Fermi Paradox," a post that became extremely popular. The site's original slogan was "New post every Monday and Thursday". As post lengths increased and the content became more detailed only weekly updates were possible, and the slogan became "New post every Tuesday" at first, "New post every Tuesday(ish)" later, and "New post every sometimes" since 2015. With the new focus on science and technology, "Wait But Why" gained the attention of Elon Musk, which led to the series of posts on Musk. In June 2015, Elon Musk asked Urban if he would be willing to write
Elon Musk once tweeted: "If one day, my words are against science, choose science. [SEP] Elon Musk // the kind that shifts resources from most productive to least productive, pretending to do good, while actually causing harm" - arguing instead, "true socialism seeks greatest good for all." He supports targeting an inclusive tax rate of 40%, prefers consumption taxes to income taxes, and supports the estate tax, as the "probability of progeny being equally excellent at capital allocation is not high." Musk has described the United States as "[inarguably] the greatest country that has ever existed on Earth," describing it as "the greatest force for good of any country that's ever been." Musk believes democracy would not exist
Elon Musk once tweeted: "If one day, my words are against science, choose science. [SEP] Elon Musk // a reporter from "Buzzfeed News" published an email written by Musk on August 30 marked "off the record", saying "I suggest that you call people you know in Thailand, find out what's actually going on and stop defending child rapists, you fucking asshole. As for this alleged threat of a lawsuit, which magically appeared when I raised the issue ... I fucking hope he sues me." Musk confirmed that he had sent the email. The diver subsequently filed a defamation suit in Los Angeles federal court in mid-September 2018, with plans to also file a similar case in the United
Elon Musk once tweeted: "If one day, my words are against science, choose science. [SEP] Elon Musk // Cranston, in a bar at a party. Also in 2016, Musk was referenced by Dr. Martin Stein on The CW time-travel TV show "DC's Legends of Tomorrow". During time travel to the past, Stein meets his younger self and introduced himself as Elon Musk, to disguise his own identity. In October 2017, Musk was prematurely immortalized as a historic pioneer on the CBS All Access series "". Set in the year 2256, Captain Gabriel Lorca attempts to motivate a scientist on his ship by asking him "How do you want to be remembered in history? Alongside the Wright Brothers, Elon
Elon Musk once tweeted: "If one day, my words are against science, choose science. [SEP] Elon Musk // A web version of the game is available online. His childhood reading included Isaac Asimov's "Foundation" series from which he drew the lesson that "you should try to take the set of actions that are likely to prolong civilization, minimize the probability of a dark age and reduce the length of a dark age if there is one." Musk was severely bullied throughout his childhood and was once hospitalized when a group of boys threw him down a flight of stairs and then beat him until he lost consciousness. Musk attended Waterkloof House Preparatory School and Bryanston High School before
174 Democrats voted against a "bipartisan act to stop convicted terrorists and sexual predators from becoming TSA Agents. [SEP] Political positions of the Democratic Party // consensual noncommercial sexual conduct among adults as a matter of personal privacy. Many Democrats are opposed to the Patriot Act. However, when the law was passed most Democrats were supportive of it and all but two Democrats in the U.S. Senate voted for the original legislation in 2001. The lone nay vote was from Russ Feingold of Wisconsin; Mary Landrieu of Louisiana did not vote. In the House, the Democrats voted for the Act by a margin of 145-62. Democrats split on the issue of the Act's renewal in 2006. In the Senate, 34 Democrats voted for the 2006 renewal,
174 Democrats voted against a "bipartisan act to stop convicted terrorists and sexual predators from becoming TSA Agents. [SEP] Saxby Chambliss // of lethal drone strikes—forcing the Senate to delay the expected confirmation of John O. Brennan to lead the Central Intelligence Agency. In April 2013, Chambliss was one of forty-six senators to vote against a bill which would have expanded background checks for all firearms buyers. Chambliss voted with 40 Republicans and 5 Democrats to stop the passage of the bill. Chambliss received bipartisan criticism in 2013 after discussing the "hormone level created by nature" as a possible cause of sexual assault in the military. In January 2014 Chambliss signed an amicus brief in support of Senator Ron Johnson's legal challenge
174 Democrats voted against a "bipartisan act to stop convicted terrorists and sexual predators from becoming TSA Agents. [SEP] Stop Arming Terrorists Act // Senate version of the bill, on the other hand, has zero cosponsors. Stop Arming Terrorists Act The Stop Arming Terrorists Act is a proposed Act of Congress that was originally sponsored by United States Representative for Hawaii's 2nd congressional district Tulsi Gabbard and United States Senator for Kentucky Rand Paul in early 2017 to prohibit the use of United States Government funds to provide assistance to Al Qaeda, Jabhat Fateh al-Sham, and the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) and to countries supporting those organizations, and for other purposes. As November 2017, only 14 other lawmakers out of
174 Democrats voted against a "bipartisan act to stop convicted terrorists and sexual predators from becoming TSA Agents. [SEP] Stop Enabling Sex Traffickers Act // by 27 Democratic and Republican senators; early supporters of the bill included members of the Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, which is chaired by Portman and led the aforementioned investigation into Backpage. Representative Mimi Walters stated that websites such as Backpage have become the "storefronts" for the modern-day slave trade and that the FOSTA-SESTA legislation will help prosecutors "crack down on websites that promote sex trafficking" as well as provide recourse for victims. Representative Carolyn Maloney (D-NY) stated her support for the FOSTA-SESTA package, believing that "Congress must act to clarify that Section 230 of the Communications Decency Act was never
174 Democrats voted against a "bipartisan act to stop convicted terrorists and sexual predators from becoming TSA Agents. [SEP] Jackie Speier // of 32 members of Congress to co-sign a letter of October 8, 2015, to the TSA requesting a reform in screening policies and procedures for transgender travelers. In March 2016, Speier introduced the "Closing the Pre-Paid Mobile Device Security Gap Act" (H.R. 4886) to force purchasers of prepaid mobile devices or SIM cards to provide identification. Jackie Speier Karen Lorraine Jacqueline Speier (; born May 14, 1950) is an American politician who currently serves as U.S. Representative for , serving in Congress since 2008. She is a member of the Democratic Party. The district, numbered as the 12th District from
174 Democrats voted against a "bipartisan act to stop convicted terrorists and sexual predators from becoming TSA Agents. [SEP] The 28 pages // website 28Pages.org to provide information about the 28 pages to the public and journalists, and to facilitate grassroots activism aimed at achieving their declassification. In January 2015, Representatives Jones, Lynch and Massie introduced H.Res.14 as the 115th United States Congress began. Its wording was identical to H.Res.428 in the previous, 114th Congress. It amassed 71 cosponsors. On June 1, 2015, Senator Rand Paul introduced Senate Bill 1471, the Transparency for the Families of 9/11 Victims and Survivors Act. Senators Ron Wyden and Kirsten Gillibrand joined as original cosponsors. No other senators cosponsored the measure, which sought to compel President Obama
174 Democrats voted against a "bipartisan act to stop convicted terrorists and sexual predators from becoming TSA Agents. [SEP] Brian Schatz // one of his first votes in the U.S. Senate, he voted against renewing the FISA Amendments Act Reauthorization Act of 2012. On April 17, 2013, he voted to expand background checks for gun purchases. Schatz voted for the Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act, a bill opposed by many civil liberties groups. In March 2014, Schatz was a lead organizer of an overnight talkathon devoted to discussing climate change. The gathering of over two dozen Senate Democrats took place on the Senate floor. The League of Conservation Voters supported the talkathon and ran campaign ads on Schatz's behalf. To encourage tourism in
174 Democrats voted against a "bipartisan act to stop convicted terrorists and sexual predators from becoming TSA Agents. [SEP] No Fly List // the legislation after the November 2015 Paris attacks and President Barack Obama has called for such legislation to be approved. Republicans in Congress such as Senate Homeland Security Committee chair Ron Johnson and Speaker of the House Paul Ryan oppose this measure, citing due process concerns and efficacy, respectively. Republicans have blocked attempts by Democrats to attach these provisions to Republican-backed measures. The American Civil Liberties Union has voiced opposition to barring weapons sales to individuals listed on the current form of the No Fly List, stating that: "There is no constitutional bar to reasonable regulation of guns, and the
174 Democrats voted against a "bipartisan act to stop convicted terrorists and sexual predators from becoming TSA Agents. [SEP] Joe Kennedy III // Caucus (CPC) who voted against the Amash-Conyers amendment to limit Section 215 of the Patriot Act, which tried to restrict NSA surveillance programs. In contrast, a majority of both CPC members and of Democratic members of Congress voted for the amendment, while Kennedy stood out as a supporter of the party leadership. His vote has been criticized as a sign for a lack of commitment to civil liberties. On January 26, 2018, House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi and Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer announced he would deliver the Democratic response to President Donald Trump's 2018 State of the Union address.
174 Democrats voted against a "bipartisan act to stop convicted terrorists and sexual predators from becoming TSA Agents. [SEP] Stop Arming Terrorists Act // Stop Arming Terrorists Act The Stop Arming Terrorists Act is a proposed Act of Congress that was originally sponsored by United States Representative for Hawaii's 2nd congressional district Tulsi Gabbard and United States Senator for Kentucky Rand Paul in early 2017 to prohibit the use of United States Government funds to provide assistance to Al Qaeda, Jabhat Fateh al-Sham, and the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) and to countries supporting those organizations, and for other purposes. As November 2017, only 14 other lawmakers out of 435 United States House of Representatives have co-sponsored Gabbard’s House bill. Paul’s
Rio urges Carnival visitors to stick to urban areas. [SEP] Rio de Janeiro // far more criminalized than the south region of Brazil, which is considered the safest in the country. Rio de Janeiro is one of the most visited cities in the Southern Hemisphere and is known for its natural settings, Carnival, samba, bossa nova, and balneario beaches such as Barra da Tijuca, Copacabana, Ipanema, and Leblon. In addition to the beaches, some of the most famous landmarks include the giant statue of "Christ the Redeemer" atop Corcovado mountain, named one of the New Seven Wonders of the World; Sugarloaf Mountain with its cable car; the "Sambódromo" (Sambadrome), a permanent grandstand-lined parade avenue
Rio urges Carnival visitors to stick to urban areas. [SEP] Rio Carnival // side-effect of taking street parades from the downtown area to a specific, ticketed performance area. Some samba schools have since been motivated by an agenda that focuses on regaining public space, and using the carnival tradition to occupy the streets with parades or "blocos". Many of these represent a local community of the area but are open to all. Several of the Rio street carnival blocks that hold the parties are affiliated to the "Rio de Janeiro State Street Carnival Blocks Federation" (FBCERJ), established in 1965. The Queen of the Carnival in Rio de Janeiro and up to two princesses
Rio urges Carnival visitors to stick to urban areas. [SEP] Rio Carnival // and the balls are being held in the Copacabana Palace and beach, many carnival participants are at other locations. Street festivals are very common during carnival and are highly populated by the locals. Elegance and extravagance are usually left behind, but music and dancing are still extremely common. Anyone is allowed to participate in the street festivals. Bandas are very familiar with the street carnival especially because it takes nothing to join in on the fun except to jump in. One of the most well known bandas of Rio is Banda de Ipanema. Banda de Ipanema was first created in
Rio urges Carnival visitors to stick to urban areas. [SEP] Brazilian Carnival // were more than three million people on the streets, with about 500,00 tourists. The Baianas Ozadas block hit a record audience of 500,000 people. The Carnival of the city of Ouro Preto is very popular with college students in the area. The city has a large proportion of students, who during the year live in places called Repúblicas (a rented house maintained and ruled by themselves). During carnival, the Repúblicas are literally packed with residents and many visitors coming from all over the country. The hills prevent traffic of heavy sound trucks, but don't stop people from feasting all night
Rio urges Carnival visitors to stick to urban areas. [SEP] Pedestrian zone // the roads beside the beaches are auto-free on Sundays and holidays. Downtown Rio de Janeiro, Ouvidor Street, over almost its entire length, has been continually a pedestrian space since the mid-nineteenth century when not even carts or carriages were allowed. And the Saara District, also downtown, consists of some dozen or more blocks of colonial streets, off limits to cars, and crowded with daytime shoppers. Likewise, many of the city's hillside favelas are effectively pedestrian zones as the streets are too narrow and/or steep for automobiles. Eixo Rodoviário, in Brasília, which is 13 kilometers long and 30 meters wide and
Rio urges Carnival visitors to stick to urban areas. [SEP] Brazilian Carnival // for industrial production, retail establishments such as malls, and carnival-related businesses, the country unifies completely for almost a week and festivities are intense, day and night, mainly in coastal cities. Rio de Janeiro's carnival alone drew 4.9 million people in 2011, with 400,000 being foreigners. This cultural manifestation is generally an extension of Afro-Brazilian culture, though could also be historically traced to the Portuguese Age of Discoveries when their caravels passed regularly through Madeira, a territory which already celebrated emphatically its carnival season, and where they were loaded with goods but also people and their ludic and cultural expressions. In
Rio urges Carnival visitors to stick to urban areas. [SEP] Brazilian Carnival // Those official parades are meant to be watched by the public, while minor parades ("blocos") allowing public participation can be found in other cities, like Belo Horizonte, also in the southeastern region. The northeastern cities of Recife, Olinda, Salvador, and Porto Seguro have organized groups parading through streets, and public interacts directly with them. This carnival is also influenced by African-Brazilian culture. It is a six-day party where crowds follow the trios elétricos through the city streets, dancing and singing. Also in northeast, Olinda carnival features unique characteristics, heavily influenced by local folklore and cultural manifestations, such as Frevo and
Rio urges Carnival visitors to stick to urban areas. [SEP] Natal, Rio Grande do Norte // completely urbanized and there are several points shops, restaurants, bars and night clubs. The sand itself is lined with "tents", or huts, that serve food and drinks to beachgoers day and night. A common sight on the beach are "jangadas", simple, multicolored, local fishing boats typical of northeastern Brazil. The Via Costeira (Coastal Way) is a great avenue built next to the dunes and beaches of the city, including making the connection of several beaches in the state. The Pipa Beach is located from Natal and completely away from urban centers. Paradise a beach that attract thousands of tourists every
Rio urges Carnival visitors to stick to urban areas. [SEP] Rio Carnival // 1965 and is known as Rio’s most irreverent street band. Incorporated into every aspect of the Rio carnival are dancing and music. The most famous dance is carnival samba, a Brazilian dance with African influences. The samba remains a popular dance not only in carnival but in the ghettos outside of the main cities. These villages keep alive the historical aspect of the dance without the influence of the western cultures. Music is another major part of all aspects of the carnival. As stated by Samba City, "Samba Carnival Instruments are an important part of Brazil and the Rio de
Rio urges Carnival visitors to stick to urban areas. [SEP] Banda de Ipanema // Patrimonio Cultural", in a recognition of the important role it played in the rebirth of Rio Carnival Street Festivities . To give you an idea of the proportions, in 2009 there were about 400 street bands registered officially. The largest one, Monobloco, reportedly gathered 400 thousand revelers on Sunday the week after Carnival along Av. Rio Branco, in the Downtown area. Like all other street Carnival festivities in Rio, the event is free - you do not have to pay to join the fun. The gathering spot is at Praca General Osorio around 4 p.m., and the band starts marching
A meme that claims Donald Trump has been in the public eye for 30 years and was never accused of racism before running for president has gone viral on social media. [SEP] /r/The Donald // Donald Trump during his presidential run." The subreddit has grown to be known for frequent posting of memes, especially Pepe the Frog, and frequent use of slang terms such as "centipede" (a reference to a popular Trump highlight reel featuring the Knife Party song "Centipede"), "MAGA," "nimble navigator," "no brakes," "cuck," "4D Chess," and "SJW." Furthermore, users on the site refer to Trump as "God Emperor." For a significant period of time, the subreddit repeatedly posted an image of Hillary Clinton kissing Robert Byrd, a former member of the Ku Klux Klan. The image was accompanied by a photoshopped picture
A meme that claims Donald Trump has been in the public eye for 30 years and was never accused of racism before running for president has gone viral on social media. [SEP] Racial views of Donald Trump // to the lowest level in twenty years, one-third of the level recorded in 1998. In response, the Anti-Defamation League issued a statement: In November 2018, Facebook, NBC, and Fox News withdrew a controversial political campaign ad which was backed by Trump after critics described it as racist. Shown prior to the midterm elections, the ad focused on a migrant caravan currently traveling through Mexico with hopes of immigration to the U.S., and Luis Bracamontes, an undocumented immigrant who was convicted of killing two sheriff’s deputies in California in 2014. Donald Trump has been accused of "inflaming racial, ethnic and religious
A meme that claims Donald Trump has been in the public eye for 30 years and was never accused of racism before running for president has gone viral on social media. [SEP] Donald Trump 2016 presidential campaign // that had been posted from a parody bot created by "Gawker": "It is better to live one day as a lion than 100 years as a sheep". When informed that the source of the quote was 20th century Italian fascist dictator Benito Mussolini, Trump responded that the origin of the quote made no difference because "it's a very good quote." On July 2, 2016, Trump tweeted a picture originally created as a meme by white supremacists. The tweet featured a photo of Clinton next to a star-shaped badge saying "Most Corrupt Candidate Ever!" with a background of $100 bills. The
A meme that claims Donald Trump has been in the public eye for 30 years and was never accused of racism before running for president has gone viral on social media. [SEP] Donald Trump 2016 presidential campaign // to his audience is unprecedented as a campaign tool. On November 22, 2015, Trump retweeted an image containing racially charged and inaccurate crime data between blacks and whites, cited to a non-existent group. According to "Newsweek", the image appeared to originate with a neo-Nazi Twitter account. When later asked by Bill O'Reilly about his sharing of the image, Trump confirmed that he had personally retweeted the image and said that it came from "sources that are very credible." The Annenberg Public Policy Center's FactCheck.org reported that the image was a "bogus graphic." On February 28, Trump re-tweeted a Mussolini quote
A meme that claims Donald Trump has been in the public eye for 30 years and was never accused of racism before running for president has gone viral on social media. [SEP] Racial views of Donald Trump // "Birtherism" conspiracy theory that President Barack Obama was not born in the US, and he repeated the claim for the following five years. He was accused of racism for maintaining, as late as 2016, that a group of black and Latino teenagers were guilty of raping a white woman in the Central Park jogger case, although an imprisoned serial rapist had confessed in 2002 to raping the jogger alone, and DNA evidence confirmed his guilt. Trump launched his 2016 presidential campaign with a speech in which he stated that Mexican undocumented immigrants are criminals, rapists, or people who bring in
A meme that claims Donald Trump has been in the public eye for 30 years and was never accused of racism before running for president has gone viral on social media. [SEP] Protests against Donald Trump // "Trump is a racist! Trump is a liar!" Trump's star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame, awarded to the host of "The Apprentice" in 2007, has been vandalized numerous times and destroyed twice - once in 2016 before the election, and once in 2018 when he was president. Street performer Francisco Javier reported in April 2016 that people often showed disrespect to the star, sometimes defacing it with paint or letting their dogs relieve themselves on it. One person put a sticker over Trump's name. After Trump's nomination as the Republican candidate in July 2016, the artist Plastic Jesus built
A meme that claims Donald Trump has been in the public eye for 30 years and was never accused of racism before running for president has gone viral on social media. [SEP] Social media in the 2016 United States presidential election // lots of memes targeting a candidate might. The Trump presidential campaign benefited from large numbers of supporters who were active on social media from the beginning of the campaign. Donald Trump was perhaps one of the most provocative presidents in recent times, creating a strong divide within the country as there seemed to be very few people who felt only moderate feelings for him. With such a large divide created, it is no surprise that issues would arise on the Internet from both the supporters, who would call themselves "Centipedes" online and the liberals (who sometimes refer to each other
A meme that claims Donald Trump has been in the public eye for 30 years and was never accused of racism before running for president has gone viral on social media. [SEP] Racial views of Donald Trump // rapist confessed to the jogger's rape, which was confirmed by DNA evidence, and the convictions of the five men were vacated. They sued New York City in 2003 for malicious prosecution, racial discrimination, and emotional distress. Lawyers for the five defendants said that Trump's advertisement had inflamed public opinion. The city settled the case for $41 million in 2014. In June of that year, Trump called the settlement "a disgrace" and said that the group's guilt was still likely: "Settling doesn't mean innocence. [...] These young men do not exactly have the pasts of angels." In October 2016, when Trump
A meme that claims Donald Trump has been in the public eye for 30 years and was never accused of racism before running for president has gone viral on social media. [SEP] /pol/ // Daily Stormer"; the "Stormer"s editor, Andrew Anglin, concurred. Many /pol/ users favored Donald Trump during his 2016 United States presidential campaign. Upon his election, a /pol/ moderator embedded a pro-Trump video at the top of all of the board's pages. Much of the content on /pol/ relies heavily on memes to further spread ideas. One of the most popular memes found on the board is that of Pepe the Frog, which has been deemed as a white supremacist symbol by some media outlets due to it being shown in uniforms, places, and people associated with Nazism, the Ku Klux Klan,
A meme that claims Donald Trump has been in the public eye for 30 years and was never accused of racism before running for president has gone viral on social media. [SEP] Racial views of Donald Trump // Racial views of Donald Trump Donald Trump, the President of the United States, has a history of making racially controversial remarks and taking actions widely seen as exacerbating racial anxieties in the United States. Trump has denied accusations of racism, saying, "I am not a racist. I'm the least racist person you will ever interview". In 1973, Trump and his company Trump Management were sued by the U.S. Department of Justice for housing discrimination against black rentersa lawsuit which, according to Trump, he settled without an admission of guilt. In 2011, Trump became the leading proponent of the already discredited
WHO says e-cigarettes, 'smoke-free' products do not help reduce cancer. [SEP] Positions of medical organizations on electronic cigarettes // e-cigarettes is better than smoking combustible ones. The American Cancer Society concluded in early 2014, "Because the American Cancer Society doesn’t yet know whether e-cigarettes are safe and effective, we cannot recommend them to help people quit smoking. There are proven methods available to help people quit, including pure forms of inhalable nicotine as well as nasal sprays, gums, and patches." The American Diabetes Association states "e-cigarettes are not supported as an alternative to smoking or to facilitate smoking cessation." In 2015, the American Association for Cancer Research and the American Society of Clinical Oncology released a statement noting that
WHO says e-cigarettes, 'smoke-free' products do not help reduce cancer. [SEP] Electronic cigarette // replacing tobacco cigarettes with lower risk products to reduce death and disease. E-cigarettes can reduce smokers' exposure to carcinogens and other toxic substances found in tobacco, and are very likely less harmful than tobacco cigarettes. This is a motivation for many e-cigarette users. Hazards associated with products currently on the market are certainly much lower than smoking. However, harms could be reduced further through appropriate product standards. The British Medical Association encourages health professionals to recommend conventional nicotine replacement therapies, but for patients unwilling to use or continue using such methods, health professionals may present e-cigarettes as a lower-risk option
WHO says e-cigarettes, 'smoke-free' products do not help reduce cancer. [SEP] Positions of medical organizations on electronic cigarettes // reported in 2013 that there was a possibility for smoking cessation benefits, but had concerns that e-cigarettes are less regulated than nicotine replacement therapy (NRT), and that there was no peer reviewed evidence concerning their safety or efficacy. In May 2014, Cancer Research UK released a statement including, "Electronic cigarettes (e-cigarettes) are almost certainly much safer than tobacco cigarettes and may help smokers to cut down or quit smoking. We support the use of high quality e-cigarettes because we believe that they have significant potential to help smokers who aren't otherwise ready or able to quit smoking by providing them
WHO says e-cigarettes, 'smoke-free' products do not help reduce cancer. [SEP] Positions of medical organizations on electronic cigarettes // a less harmful way than smoking, and may reduce health risks for smokers". The Canadian Cancer Society has concluded, e-cigarettes "have not been scientifically proven to help people quit" smoking tobacco. The Canadian Heart and Stroke Foundation has stated, "While early studies show some potential benefits, the effectiveness of e-cigarettes with nicotine as a smoking cessation device is not fully conclusive," and expressed concerns about the lack of long term studies with regard to health effects to the user as well as second hand exposure. They also note public health officials' concerns about renormalizing smoking behavior undermining current tobacco control
WHO says e-cigarettes, 'smoke-free' products do not help reduce cancer. [SEP] Safety of electronic cigarettes // is no long-term research concerning the cancer risk related to the potentially small level of exposure to the identified carcinogens in the vapor. In May 2014, Cancer Research UK stated that there are "very preliminary unpublished results that suggest that e-cigarettes promote tumour growth in human cells." The e-cigarette vapors triggered DNA strand breaks and lowered cell survival "in vitro". A 2013 study found some samples of e-cigarette vapors had cytotoxic effects on cardiac muscle cells, though the effects were less than with cigarette smoke. In October 2012, the World Medical Association stated, "Manufacturers and marketers of e-cigarettes often claim
WHO says e-cigarettes, 'smoke-free' products do not help reduce cancer. [SEP] Electronic cigarette // than tobacco smoking. The American Association of Public Health Physicians (AAPHP) suggests those who are unwilling to quit tobacco smoking or unable to quit with medical advice and pharmaceutical methods should consider other nicotine containing products such as electronic cigarettes and smokeless tobacco for long term use instead of smoking. Tobacco smoke contains 100 known carcinogens, and 900 potentially cancer causing chemicals, none of which has been found in more than trace quantities in e-cigarette vapor. A core concern is that smokers who could have quit completely will develop an alternative nicotine addiction instead. A 2014 review stated that promotion
WHO says e-cigarettes, 'smoke-free' products do not help reduce cancer. [SEP] Positions of medical organizations on electronic cigarettes // the e-cigarettes, whether it contains nicotine or not, can alleviate cravings and withdrawal symptoms, but their ability to help quit smoking has not been proven. The Ministry of Health of New Zealand has stated, "There is not enough evidence to be able to recommend e-cigarettes as an aid to quit smoking" and recommends more established treatments for smoking cessation. They also point interested readers to the 2014 WHO statement for further information. The Cancer Society of New Zealand released a position statement which states, "Currently, there is limited evidence of the safety of e-cigarettes or their suitability as a smoking
WHO says e-cigarettes, 'smoke-free' products do not help reduce cancer. [SEP] Positions of medical organizations on electronic cigarettes // way for the public health, medical community or consumers to know what chemicals are contained in e-cigarettes or what the short and long term health implications might be." The American Cancer Society supports every smoker using any way they choose who are contemplating trying to quit smoking and in 2018 they stated to use FDA regulated medicine that have a track record of effectively helping efforts to stop smoking. For some smokers who do not try to quit smoking cigarettes using FDA regulated medicine they recommend to choose the least unsafe tobacco product and they stated transitioning to only using
WHO says e-cigarettes, 'smoke-free' products do not help reduce cancer. [SEP] Positions of medical organizations on electronic cigarettes // their use either as tools to help quit smoking or for harm reduction. The Philippine Medical Association has also taken a strong position against the use of electronic cigarettes, citing safety concerns. The Spanish Society of Pneumonology and Thoracic Surgery (SEPAR) released a position statement which states that the substances found in aerosol from e-cigarettes have not been demonstrated to be safe, and a number of chemicals which are carcinogens and can damage the lung have been found, though usually in concentrations smaller than conventional cigarettes. Studies done to date have been small in size and have had significant methodological
WHO says e-cigarettes, 'smoke-free' products do not help reduce cancer. [SEP] Electronic cigarette // no identified health risks to bystanders". A 2014 review recommended that regulations for e-cigarettes could be similar to those for dietary supplements or cosmetic products to not limit their potential for harm reduction. A 2012 review found e-cigarettes could considerably reduce traditional cigarettes use and they likely could be used as a lower risk replacement for traditional cigarettes, but there is not enough data on their safety and efficacy to draw definite conclusions. In an interview, the director of the Office on Smoking and Health for the U.S. federal agency Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) believes that there
A photograph shows the wedding of a U.S. Marine disfigured by combat wounds. [SEP] American mutilation of Japanese war dead // magazine published a photograph taken by Ralph Morse during the Guadalcanal campaign showing a severed Japanese head that U.S. Marines had propped up below the gun turret of a tank. "Life" received letters of protest from people "in disbelief that American soldiers were capable of such brutality toward the enemy." The editors responded that "war is unpleasant, cruel, and inhuman. And it is more dangerous to forget this than to be shocked by reminders." However, the image of the severed head generated less than half the amount of protest letters that an image of a mistreated cat in the very
A photograph shows the wedding of a U.S. Marine disfigured by combat wounds. [SEP] Bradley Kasal // photographer Lucian Read — blood-soaked and still holding his M9 pistol and KA-Bar fighting knife — being helped from the building by fellow Marines, has become one of the iconic pictures of the war. Due to the injuries, Kasal lost four inches of bone in his right leg. He has undergone 21 surgeries to date in order to repair his injuries and save his leg. Kasal continues his recovery from his wounds and still walks with a limp. Kasal served as the Sergeant Major of Recruiting Station Des Moines, Iowa from May 2006 until January 2010. He then returned to
A photograph shows the wedding of a U.S. Marine disfigured by combat wounds. [SEP] Sumiteru Taniguchi // and white photograph and this is included in his book, "Japan 1945: A U.S. Marine's Photographs from Ground Zero". By May 1947, Taniguchi could finally sit up, and on 20 March 1949, he was discharged from the Omura hospital. His wounds were not treated properly until 1960, however, and continued to cause him great physical discomfort until his death. The improper burn healing and to some degree the delayed stochastic effects of radiation exposure during and after the bombings manifested in the growth of numerous burn keloid tumors. From 2007 until his death, Taniguchi had undergone ten surgeries to remove
A photograph shows the wedding of a U.S. Marine disfigured by combat wounds. [SEP] Ray Platnick // Eniwetok to warn Marines if they were occupied. He photographed young marines, exhausted after two days and two nights of fighting, downing mugs of coffee. A 19 February 1944 portrait attributed to him and made during the Battle, of United States Marine Corps Private Theodore James Miller (later killed there on March 24, 1944) boarding the Coast Guard-manned attack transport USS "Arthur Middleton" presents a famous example of the traumatised expression of combat fatigue. In 1955 Edward Steichen selected Platnick's picture of a slain soldier on Eniwetok for the world-touring Museum of Modern Art exhibition The Family of Man seen
A photograph shows the wedding of a U.S. Marine disfigured by combat wounds. [SEP] Michael Stokes (photographer) // find. I noticed that most of them emphasized the lost limb, and that the mood was often sorrowful. That was not the vibe I was getting from him, so I decided to simply photograph him as if he were not an amputee, photograph him exactly the same way I would any of my fitness models." In 2014, Stokes’ collection of vintage photographs of nude WWII soldiers was published by Taschen as "My Buddy". His third book, "Always Loyal" (2015), is devoted exclusively to wounded United States veterans, while "Exhibition" (2015), is a continuation of his celebration of the male figure.
A photograph shows the wedding of a U.S. Marine disfigured by combat wounds. [SEP] United States Marine Corps Amphibious Reconnaissance Battalion // Sergeant Jim Burns, one of the recon photographers, and Ensign Frank Jirka, a UDT liaison officer, were both hit by shrapnel; Burns in his arm, torso and eye; Jirka in his legs. Most of the wounded were brought onto the USS "Tennessee" for treating severe casualties and the mildly wounded. Sgt. Burns turned in his Contax camera, along with vital and pertinent intelligence, to Captain Reynolds for use in briefing the commanders. Afterwards, he was medically evacuated to Hawaii and returned to the continental United States, receiving a Bronze Star for his actions. Ensign Jirka, on the other hand, lost
A photograph shows the wedding of a U.S. Marine disfigured by combat wounds. [SEP] Jesse Marlow // and is played with a "commitment and passion not seen anywhere else around the country". Marlow's second book, "Wounded" (2005), shows people going about their routines, yet with visible injury. He was inspired after breaking his arm and unable to operate a camera, he became tuned to noticing others in a similar position and they were subsequently all he photographed for the next two years. He has said that his "aim with the project was to show that despite people suffering obvious superficial injuries, human beings dust themselves off and get on with life." These first two books were made
A photograph shows the wedding of a U.S. Marine disfigured by combat wounds. [SEP] Zoriah Miller // of his embedding by taking pictures of dead and injured soldiers and thereby "[providing the] enemy with an after-action report on the effectiveness of their attack and on the response procedures of U.S. and Iraqi forces". Photographs that he took in Iraq of dead US Marines after a suicide bomber in Al-Karmah that he posted on his website were widely discussed and brought to light the issue of wartime censorship. Although working as a photographer from a young age , Miller's career did not take off until late 2005 when a photograph of his showing one result of the 2004
A photograph shows the wedding of a U.S. Marine disfigured by combat wounds. [SEP] Bodily mutilation in film // movies have often romanticized battle and violence for glory; but after the Vietnam War, many movies worked to portray war in its true form, all the violence, brutality, and even the psychological distress included. This is shown in several films including "The Deer Hunter" (1978) and "Casualties of War" (1989). A great example is the classic film "Saving Private Ryan" (1998). In the beginning of this movie there is a 15-minute scene showing the landing of American troops at Omaha beach. In this scene there are untold amounts of blood and gore as German machine guns literally rip the U.S.
A photograph shows the wedding of a U.S. Marine disfigured by combat wounds. [SEP] Battle of Suoi Chau Pha // Losing an eye and suffering heavy blood loss from multiple shrapnel wounds after a Viet Cong rocket exploded within a metre of him, he was evacuated to 8 Field Ambulance in Vung Tau with no pulse. His left leg later amputated, his wounds were so bad he had to be given a general anaesthetic each time his bandages were changed. Making a miraculous recovery however, he was personally recommended for the US Medal of Honor by Westmoreland for his resolute spirit, although this was later reduced to a lesser Australian award. Many casualties were beyond help however, and the battalion
Chicago’s mayor says top cop drinking before incident in car. [SEP] Walter Jacobson // neighborhood and charged with driving under the influence, running a stop sign, invalid registration and obstructing traffic after he allegedly double-parked his 2004 Saab outside a Lincoln Park pizzeria and was seen by police "stumbling" out of the shop. Jacobson reportedly was advised by an officer not to drive his car pending a sobriety test, but he went ahead and did so anyway, and after several blocks was pulled over by officers. Jacobson ultimately passed the Breathalyzer test, and the DUI charge was dropped, just four days before his induction into the Chicago Journalism Hall of Fame. Jacobson ultimately pleaded
Chicago’s mayor says top cop drinking before incident in car. [SEP] Chicago Police Department // than half the original verdict was awarded for "intentional inflection of emotional distress." In 2007, security camera footage surfaced of an intoxicated off-duty police officer, Anthony Abbate, punching and kicking a female bartender, Karolina Obrycka. This occurred at Jesse's Shortstop Inn on February 19, 2007, after Obrycka refused to serve him any more alcohol. Abbate was later arrested, charged with felony battery, and stripped of police powers after TV news stations aired the footage. The Chicago Police soon terminated Abbate from the force, but questions remained over the city's handling of the case. Abbate was allowed to enter his courtroom
Chicago’s mayor says top cop drinking before incident in car. [SEP] Bill Mitchell (politician) // "dictating its views" to the rest of the state and Brown added that Chicago "overshadows" the rest of Illinois. An August 30, 2003, article in the Bloomington–Normal newspaper "The Pantagraph" stated that Mitchell was arrested for DUI near Heyworth, Illinois, and was also charged with improper traffic lane usage. The McLean County Sheriff's report indicated that his breath-alcohol level was 0.186 percent, which is more than twice Illinois legal BAC limit of 0.08. Mitchell pleaded guilty to both charges and was sentenced to 24 months of court supervision. Bill Mitchell (politician) Bill Mitchell (born March 29, 1960) is a Republican
Chicago’s mayor says top cop drinking before incident in car. [SEP] San Diego Police Department // an officer who had a traffic accident while driving drunk. Detective Jeffrey Blackford struck a utility box with his car at about 1:00 a.m. on the morning of December 7, 2012. Two off-duty friends, Sergeant John Iammarino and Detective Daniel Caropres, stopped their car to render assistance but did not report the accident. Later, Sergeants William Brown and Christopher Tivanian (who were on-duty) came to the crash site. They reported the accident at about 2:15 a.m., but the driver was not administered a blood-alcohol test until about 3:00 a.m. He was just over the legal limit. In November 2014, two
Chicago’s mayor says top cop drinking before incident in car. [SEP] Tim McCarthy // including standardized DUI tests and easier to read license plates. White won the primary election with 55% of the vote to McCarthy’s 45% of the vote, or a margin of 100,195 votes. In 1999, he earned a Master of Science degree in criminal/social justice from Lewis University in Romeoville, Illinois. In March 2016, he was awarded the first annual Chief of Police of the Year award by the Illinois Association of Chiefs of Police. The award cited his legislative advocacy, supervision of the building of the country’s first police station to receive a LEED Gold certification, working to establish the
Chicago’s mayor says top cop drinking before incident in car. [SEP] Walter Jacobson // guilty to negligent driving, obstruction of traffic and running a stop sign, and he was sentenced to four months' supervision and was fined $450. He also agreed to undergo evaluation of his use of alcohol. After the incident, Jacobson responded—with his Perspective commentary—on Fox News, claiming he was pulled over by an unmarked car full of people in baseball caps, not policemen. He later went on to say that he was "mishandled" by the police. On June 18, 2008, Jacobson was arrested near his home in Chicago's Lincoln Park neighborhood for DUI charges after failing a field sobriety and Breathalyzer
Chicago’s mayor says top cop drinking before incident in car. [SEP] Random checkpoint // and 2014, a majority of sobriety checks in Chicago were conducted in black and Latino neighborhoods, despite some white neighborhoods ranking among those with the highest number of alcohol-related traffic accidents. Police also use hastily set up roadblocks to check cars and car trunks when they are pursuing an armed and dangerous fugitive, such as an escaped maximum security prisoner or a suspected armed robber or murderer who is believed to be fleeing from police. Police at such a checkpoint may be armed with shotguns, submachine guns or semiautomatic carbines, in addition to their duty sidearms, depending on the laws
Chicago’s mayor says top cop drinking before incident in car. [SEP] Jack Muller // for his entire career. In 1953 Muller was assigned traffic duty on Rush Street. In the narrow night club–lined street, there was never enough parking, and keeping the lanes open and cars moving was a big job. He soon became a familiar sight, patrolling the street on his motorcycle. On August 7, 1954, Muller observed a Cadillac going east down the westbound lane of Oak St. The car was driven by the wife of chief judge of the Superior Court of Cook County Samuel B. Epstein, and the judge was in the passenger seat. Eyewitnesses reported that as the officer
Chicago’s mayor says top cop drinking before incident in car. [SEP] Lager Beer Riot // year, after Boone was turned out of office, the prohibition was repealed. Before 1853, Chicago had only "a small force of armed municipal officers." The Cook County sheriff's office was largely responsible for policing the city, whose constable system "was modeled on the colonial and English systems." Lacking any distinction of their own, elected town constables and night watchmen contributed to the protection of the city. In response to the inadequacy of the constable system, a police department separate and distinct from municipal courts was established in 1853. All eighty men who comprised the newly formed Chicago Police department were
Chicago’s mayor says top cop drinking before incident in car. [SEP] Don Cody // of the board for Saskatchewan Government Insurance. The former mayor of Prince Albert is also known for his Drinking and Driving conviction. Cody was arrested March 26, 2003, at his house for being suspected of impaired driving. The police did not immediately charge Mr. Cody which ultimately led to accusations of a cover up. During the trial, the courts heard that he had been pulled over and two constables took him to the police station for a breath sample. Of note was the sample wasn't taken and he was instead driven to the home of then- police chief John Quinn.
GSK to sell two vaccines in $1.1 billion deal to focus on newer treatments. [SEP] GlaxoSmithKline // neurodegenerative diseases. Andrew Witty became the chief executive officer in 2008. Witty joined Glaxo in 1985 and had been president of GSK's Pharmaceuticals Europe since 2003. In 2009 GSK acquired Stiefel Laboratories, then the world's largest independent dermatology drug company, for US$3.6bn. In November the FDA approved GSK's vaccine for 2009 H1N1 influenza protection, manufactured by the company's ID Biomedical Corp in Canada. Also in November 2009 GSK formed a joint venture with Pfizer to create ViiV Healthcare, which specializes in HIV research. In 2010 the company acquired Laboratorios Phoenix, an Argentine pharmaceutical company, for US$253m, and the UK-based sports
GSK to sell two vaccines in $1.1 billion deal to focus on newer treatments. [SEP] GlaxoSmithKline // Human Genome Sciences (HGS) for $3 billion; the companies had collaborated on developing the lupus drug Belimumab (Benlysta), albiglutide for type 2 diabetes, and darapladib for atherosclerosis. In March 2014, GSK paid $1 billion to raise its stake in its Indian pharmaceutical unit, GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals, to 75 percent as part of a move to focus on emerging markets. In April 2014 Novartis and Glaxo agreed on more than $20 billion in deals, with Novartis selling its vaccine business to GSK and buying GSK's cancer business. In February 2015 GSK announced that it would acquire GlycoVaxyn, a Swiss pharmaceutical company, for
GSK to sell two vaccines in $1.1 billion deal to focus on newer treatments. [SEP] Novartis // million in the first half of 2013 after a $250 million loss for all 2012... Vaccine revenue was $1.4 billion in 2012 and has been forecast to more than double to $3.14 billion by 2018.". In 2014, Novartis announced its intention of selling the Vaccines Division to CSL Limited for $275 million. This sale was completed in late 2015 and the division was integrated into CSL's BioCSL operation with the combined entity trading as Seqirus Consumer: Novartis is not a leader in the over-the-counter or animal health segments; its leading OTC brands are Excedrin and Theraflu, but sales have been
GSK to sell two vaccines in $1.1 billion deal to focus on newer treatments. [SEP] GlaxoSmithKline // conferred approximately 50% protection from clinical Plasmodium falciparum disease in children aged 5-17 months, and approximately 30% protection in children aged 6-12 weeks when administered in conjunction with Expanded Program for Immunization (EPI) vaccines." In 2014 Glaxo said it had spent more than $350 million and expected to spend an additional $260 million before seeking regulatory approval. A second generation malaria vaccine is being evaluated in Phase 2 clinical trials. GSK's consumer healthcare division, which earned £5.2 billion in 2013, sells oral healthcare, including Aquafresh, Maclean's and Sensodyne toothpastes; and drinks such as Horlicks, Boost and a chocolate-flavoured malt drink
GSK to sell two vaccines in $1.1 billion deal to focus on newer treatments. [SEP] GlaxoSmithKline // nutrition company Maxinutrition for £162 million (US$256 million). In 2011, in a $660-million deal, Prestige Brands Holdings took over 17 GSK brands with sales of $210 million, including BC Powder, Beano, Ecotrin, Fiber Choice, Goody's Powder, Sominex and Tagamet. In 2012 the company announced that it would invest £500 million in manufacturing facilities in Ulverston, northern England, designating it as the site for a previously announced biotech plant. In May that year it acquired CellZome, a German biotech company, for US$98 million, and in June worldwide rights to alitretinoin (Toctino), an eczema drug, for $302 million. In 2013 GSK acquired
GSK to sell two vaccines in $1.1 billion deal to focus on newer treatments. [SEP] GlaxoSmithKline // Consumer Healthcare business for $3.8 billion (£2.98 billion). Unilever will pay the majority of the deal in cash, with the remaining being paid in shares in its Ondian operation, Hindustan Unilever Limited. Upon completion, GSK will then own around 5.7% of Hindustan Unilever Limited, selling those shares in a number of tranches. The same day, the company also announced it would acquire oncology specialist, Tesaro, for $5.1 billion. The deal will give GSK control of ovarian cancer treatment, Zejula - a member of the class of poly ADP ribose polymerase (PARP) inhibitors. In March 2018, GSK announced that it has
GSK to sell two vaccines in $1.1 billion deal to focus on newer treatments. [SEP] GlaxoSmithKline // to out-license or start new companies around drug candidates that it did not intend to develop further. As of 2003, SR One tended to invest only if the company aligned with GSK's business. GSK manufactures products for major disease areas such as asthma, cancer, infections, diabetes and mental health. Its biggest-selling products in 2013 were Advair, Avodart, Flovent, Augmentin, Lovaza, and Lamictal; its drugs and vaccines earned £21.3 billion that year. Other top-selling products include its asthma/COPD inhalers Advair, Ventolin, and Flovent; its diphtheria/tetanus/pertussis vaccine Infanrix and its hepatitis B vaccine; the epilepsy drug Lamictal, and the antibacterial Augmentin. Medicines
GSK to sell two vaccines in $1.1 billion deal to focus on newer treatments. [SEP] GlaxoSmithKline // reached an agreement with Novartis to acquire Novartis’ 36.5% stake in their Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture for $13 billion (£9.2 billion). This acquisition is consistent with the notion prevalent by July 2018 that the company was seriously considering a breakup that would spin-off the company's Consumer division. In December 2018, GSK announced that it, along with Pfizer, had reached an agreement to merge and combine their consumer healthcare divisions into a single entity. The combined entity would have sales of around £9.8 billon ($12.7 billion), with GSK maintaining a 68% controlling stake in the joint venture. Pfizer would own the
GSK to sell two vaccines in $1.1 billion deal to focus on newer treatments. [SEP] Novartis // reported that Novartis had acquired a 15% stake in Gamida Cell for $35 million, with the option to purchase the whole company for approximately $165 million. In October 2014, Novartis announced its intention to sell its influenza vaccine business (inclusive of its development pipeline), subject to regulatory approval, to CSL for $275 million. In March 2015, the company announced BioPharma had completed its acquisition of two Phase III cancer-drug candidates; the MEK inhibitor binimetinib (MEK 162) and the BRAF inhibitor encorafenib (LGX818), for $85 million. Further, the company sold its RNAi portfolio to Arrowhead Research for $10 million and $25
GSK to sell two vaccines in $1.1 billion deal to focus on newer treatments. [SEP] Baxter International // public company that showed on trading boards as of July 1, 2015. In July 2014, Baxter announced that it was exiting the vaccines business—divesting its commercial vaccine portfolio to Pfizer (with the sale expected to close by the end of the year) and exploring options for its vaccines R&D program, including influenza. In October 2015, José E. Almeida was named chairman and chief executive officer. In January 2016 Shire PLC agreed to acquire Baxalta for $32 billion. In December 2016, Baxter announced it would acquire Claris Lifesciences injectables subsidiary, Claris Injectables, for $625 million. During the tenure of Vernon Loucks,
SUNY Binghamton is offering a "Stop White People" course. [SEP] Ossining High School // the University at Albany, SUNY (SUNY) and Westchester Community College (WCC), although a few are also offered in partnership with Iona College (New York), SUNY at Oneonta, and Syracuse University. Labeled the "SUNY Early College Program," they allow OHS students who plan to attend SUNY or WCC schools to complete a significant portion of their college curriculum at OHS. A notable SUNY class offered is "SUNY Racism, Classism, and Sexism," started in 2005 with the intention of drawing more nonwhite students to advanced courses; it has achieved success in doing so, although more rigorous AP classes are still disproportionately White.
SUNY Binghamton is offering a "Stop White People" course. [SEP] Binghamton, New York // whose mission is to condemn discrimination in all its forms, to educate the public, and to work to eliminate discrimination against people based on age, race, color, creed, religion, national origin, ancestry, disability, marital status, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, weight or height, veteran status, or criminal conviction. Intake forms for claims of discrimination can be found at the Commission's website: www.binghamtonhrc.org. The "Press & Sun-Bulletin" is the only major daily paper in Binghamton. As of 2014, the region makes up the 159th largest television market in the United States, as well as the 187th largest radio market.
SUNY Binghamton is offering a "Stop White People" course. [SEP] Binghamton University // of four courses (for 16 credits) rather than the usual five (for 15 credits). Binghamton University is one of the most selective schools in the SUNY system. In 2015, the university received more than 30,000 applications for approximately 2,600 freshman spaces. In the Fall of 2017, the undergraduate acceptance rate was 40%. The university is designated as an advanced research institution, with a division of research, an independent research foundation, several research centers including a New York State Center of Excellence, and partnerships with other institutions. Binghamton University was ranked 163rd nationally in research and development expenditures by the National
SUNY Binghamton is offering a "Stop White People" course. [SEP] State University of New York at Purchase // for a flexible schedule. Up to 90 transfer credits are accepted in this program. It also offers continuing education and certificate programs; an online winter session; and the college's summer session. The School of Liberal Studies & Continuing Education (LSCE) offers noncredit professional certificate courses in appraisal studies (summer only), arts management, drawing and painting, geographic information systems (GIS) (fall and spring only), home staging, interior design (fall and spring only), museum studies (fall and spring only), and social media marketing (fall and spring only). Students may take individual courses without commitment to an entire program, or complete the program
SUNY Binghamton is offering a "Stop White People" course. [SEP] Binghamton University // limited transmission AM station, with a studios in the Student Union. It broadcasts live remote athletic events to the home campus. In 1964 it obtained a low wattage FM license and began broadcasting as WHRW. It continues as a free-format student run radio station that broadcasts at 90.5 FM to areas throughout the Southern Tier. Students and community members can join the Apprenticeship process where after a semester of shadowing, they can DJ their own content shows. Founded in 1946, Pipe Dream (which was called The Colonial News until its name was changed to Pipe Dream around 1970) is SUNY
SUNY Binghamton is offering a "Stop White People" course. [SEP] Cayuga Community College // a Human Services Career Concentration, and the other is a Bachelor of Professional Studies (B.P.S.) in Management with a Health Care Management Specialization. The addition of four year degrees is designed for students with busy lives and schedules, since the upper division classes are held at night and on the weekend. There are approximately 4,000 full-time and part-time students. Degree programs include liberal arts for transfer preparation, computer science, criminal justice, broadcasting, art, nursing, geographic information systems, and education. The State University of New York (SUNY) Board of Trustees approved the establishment of its first community college on April 9,
SUNY Binghamton is offering a "Stop White People" course. [SEP] SUNY Broome Community College // SUNY Broome Community College SUNY Broome Community College, or SUNY Broome, is a SUNY two-year college in Broome County, New York. The college was founded in 1946 and has gone through several name changes. The school is located in the Town of Dickinson, just north of the City of Binghamton, New York. The college had a 2010 enrollment of over 6,000 students and has alumni of over 41,000. BCC serves students from a single campus on Upper Front Street in Dickinson, New York, though some classes are taught in Waverly, Owego, and within the City of Binghamton at smaller classroom
SUNY Binghamton is offering a "Stop White People" course. [SEP] Binghamton, New York // the business district. In addition to its downtown campus, the university is also leading the development and construction of the $22 million Southern Tier High Technology Incubator in the city. SUNY Broome (formerly Broome Community College) is located just north of the city in Dickinson. A two-year SUNY college, the school is attended by 6,000 commuter students. Formerly specializing in technical education, SUNY Broome started in downtown Binghamton, and was housed at the Washington Street Armory until a fire in 1951. The college is currently constructing dormitories on campus to expand beyond its commuter population. SUNY Broome also offers courses
SUNY Binghamton is offering a "Stop White People" course. [SEP] SUNY Sullivan // and certificate programs. Areas of study include: computer graphics/graphic design (taught in the new graphics arts lab); culinary arts; nursing; criminal justice; psychology; respiratory care; childhood education; communications & media arts; and more. An Honors Program is also available. SUNY Sullivan is situated on of land and its campus features nine interconnected buildings plus the Paul Gerry Field house, the Lazarus Levine Residence Hall (which opened in Fall 2003), and the EcoGreen Townhouses. A geothermal system provides heat and air conditioning for the campus. The college faculty and staff have earned numerous awards and citations for excellence in education, including
SUNY Binghamton is offering a "Stop White People" course. [SEP] Binghamton High School // 1997, Binghamton High School became the third high school in New York to offer the International Baccalaureate (IB) Diploma. A pre-engineering program called Project Lead The Way is offered to students who are interested. It includes such courses as Computer Integrated Manufacturing Systems and Engineering Design and Development. This is made possible through a partnership between the school and Rochester Institute of Technology. These courses allow students interested in going into an engineering field an opportunity to earn college credits and eliminate beginner courses in college. The Rod Serling School of Fine Arts offers the opportunity to major in visual
Quotes Sen. Lindsey Graham as saying President Trump “probably knows more about medicine and specifically viruses than any of the so-called scientists at the NIH and CDC.” [SEP] C. J. Peters // in 2008 at the University of Texas Medical Branch to allow scientists there to work safely with any pathologic agent. Peters expects to transition some projects to higher hazard viral hemorrhagic fevers and to develop projects on other viruses such as tick-borne flaviviruses, highly virulent avian influenza strains, and Nipah virus, a new, highly virulent paramyxovirus. C. J. Peters Clarence James Peters, Jr, M.D. (born September 23, 1940, Midland, Texas), known as C. J. Peters, is a physician, field virologist and former U.S. Army colonel. He is noted for his efforts in trying to stem epidemics of exotic infectious diseases
Quotes Sen. Lindsey Graham as saying President Trump “probably knows more about medicine and specifically viruses than any of the so-called scientists at the NIH and CDC.” [SEP] William R. Steiger // panel discussion at the Center for Global Health Science and Security at Georgetown University Medical Center in January 2017, Steiger discusses ways the Trump administration can contribute to pandemic preparedness, global health security, and domestic readiness and resilience. On the topic of data sharing, Steiger credits Indonesia’s government for their instructive negotiations in 2007 after Indonesia stop sharing flu viruses while offering legitimate points why the WHO flu network was not set up for the benefit of developing countries in terms of capacity building around research and vaccine development. In the webcast, Steiger goes on to say "the private sector
Quotes Sen. Lindsey Graham as saying President Trump “probably knows more about medicine and specifically viruses than any of the so-called scientists at the NIH and CDC.” [SEP] Francis Collins // York Times": "I have made it clear that I have no religious agenda for the N.I.H., and I think the vast majority of scientists have been reassured by that and have moved on." On October 1, 2009, in the second of his four appearances on "The Colbert Report", Collins discussed his leadership at the NIH and other topics such as personalized medicine and stem cell research. And, in November 2011, Collins was included on "The New Republic's" list of Washington's most powerful, least famous people. Collins appeared on the series finale of "The Colbert Report", participating in a chorus with
Quotes Sen. Lindsey Graham as saying President Trump “probably knows more about medicine and specifically viruses than any of the so-called scientists at the NIH and CDC.” [SEP] Jim Talent // Commission on the Prevention of WMD proliferation and terrorism, which has concluded that, unless action is taken, a biological attack within the United States is increasingly likely and will become a probability by 2013. Together with former Senator Bob Graham, Chairman of the Commission, he has criticized the federal government's readiness to deal with major public health crisis'. On January 4, 2010, the two Senators published an op-ed in the "Washington Post", arguing that an unsatisfactory response to the 2009 flu pandemic shows the need for better medical emergency plans. Jim Talent James Matthes Talent (born October 18, 1956) is
Quotes Sen. Lindsey Graham as saying President Trump “probably knows more about medicine and specifically viruses than any of the so-called scientists at the NIH and CDC.” [SEP] Michael Osterholm // reviewer for 24 additional journals, including the "New England Journal of Medicine," the "Journal of the American Medical Association," and "Science". Osterholm was the Principal Investigator and Director of the NIH-supported Minnesota Center of Excellence for Influenza Research and Surveillance (2007-2014) and chaired the Executive Committee of the Centers of Excellence Influenza Research and Surveillance network. He is past president of the CSTE and has served on the CDC's National Center for Infectious Diseases Board of Scientific Counselors from 1992 to 1997. Osterholm served on the Institute of Medicine (IOM) Forum on Microbial Threats from 1994 through 2011. He has
Quotes Sen. Lindsey Graham as saying President Trump “probably knows more about medicine and specifically viruses than any of the so-called scientists at the NIH and CDC.” [SEP] Statistical murder // Public Health and director of the Harvard Center for Risk Analysis. This phrase appears in the Congressional Record in February, 1995 where he is quoted thus "John Graham, a Harvard professor, who said, 'Sound science means saving the most lives and achieving the most ecological protection with our scarce budgets. Without sound science, we are engaging in a form of "statistical murder," where we squander our resources on phantom risks when our families continue to be endangered by real risks." In 2001 he was appointed the head of the U.S. Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs in the Office of
Quotes Sen. Lindsey Graham as saying President Trump “probably knows more about medicine and specifically viruses than any of the so-called scientists at the NIH and CDC.” [SEP] Siti Fadilah // influenza division at the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) communicated in a press release that following Indonesia's announcement, it too made genomic data on bird flu viruses publicly accessible. The following day a correspondence letter appeared in "Nature" shedding light on what had triggered the sudden shift in Supari's stance and that of the CDC. The scientific community had just been introduced to Peter Bogner, the new driving force in the virus sharing debate. Supari would later describe in her book an affinity for Peter Bogner, his plea to her government to share its bird flu virus
Quotes Sen. Lindsey Graham as saying President Trump “probably knows more about medicine and specifically viruses than any of the so-called scientists at the NIH and CDC.” [SEP] Political positions of Donald Trump // that it's up to Rick Scott." On August 11, 2016, Trump said that he was in favor of Congress setting aside money to combat the Zika virus. Trump believed that childhood vaccinations were related to autism, a hypothesis which has been repeatedly debunked. The American Academy of Pediatrics and the Autism Speaks patient-advocacy group have "decried Trump's remarks as false and potentially dangerous." In 2010, the Donald J. Trump Foundation donated $10,000 to Generation Rescue, Jenny McCarthy's nonprofit organization that advocates the incorrect view that autism and related disorders are primarily caused by vaccines. Illegal immigration was a signature issue
Quotes Sen. Lindsey Graham as saying President Trump “probably knows more about medicine and specifically viruses than any of the so-called scientists at the NIH and CDC.” [SEP] Lindsey Graham // member of the board of directors of the International Republican Institute. On an episode of "Fox and Friends", Graham joked that it would be "terrible" if a DNA test showed he had Iranian ancestry. A co-host of the show, reacted by saying, "Well, they have great people, just bad leaders," which Graham confirmed. He later clarified that the comment was directed toward "the Ayatollah", not the people. In a statement, Jamal Abdi, the president of the National Iranian American Council, described Graham's remark as "disgusting". The remark sparked reactions from high-profile Iranian-Americans, including Omid Kordestani (chairman of Twitter), Ali Partovi
Quotes Sen. Lindsey Graham as saying President Trump “probably knows more about medicine and specifically viruses than any of the so-called scientists at the NIH and CDC.” [SEP] Mike Galsworthy // "Der Standard", Galsworthy "persistently seeks clarification and sees it as a central science mission in the era of fake news." Galsworthy opposes what he sees as the debasement of knowledge in populist politics. He has described President of the United States Donald Trump as "a dictator in American caricature form". Mike Galsworthy Mike Galsworthy is the co-founder of "Scientists for EU" and "Healthier IN" and a media commentator about the effects of Brexit on the scientific community in the United Kingdom. He is currently a visiting researcher at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine (LSHTM) and was previously
Government officials in Thailand have warned that an unidentified militant group contaminated canned foods with HIV. [SEP] Health in Thailand // principal investigator of the study stated in "Lancet", "We now know that pre-exposure prophylaxis can be a potentially vital option for HIV prevention in people at very high risk for infection, whether through sexual transmission or injecting drug use." Food safety scares are common to Thailand. Besides, common is microbial contamination of street food left out in the hot sun and dusty roads as well as store food contamination by banned or toxic pesticides and fake food products. In July 2012 consumer action groups demanded four unlisted toxic pesticides found on common vegetables at levels 100 times the EU guidelines
Government officials in Thailand have warned that an unidentified militant group contaminated canned foods with HIV. [SEP] Population and Community Development Association // also a heterosexual problem. In Thailand, individuals at risk for HIV/AIDS were exposed to the virus via their husbands, by continual sex partners, or by the sex trade industry. Thailand identified six main high-risk groups for contracting HIV/AID: homosexuals, injecting drug users (IUDs), sex workers, individuals receiving blood transfusions, other heterosexuals, and infants whose mothers are HIV carriers. At the onset of the AIDS epidemic, Thailand was ranked second only to Africa in its number of reported AIDS cases. In 1997, UNAIDS (United Nations Program on HIV/AIDS) and the World Health Organization (WHO) released the following statistics: The PDA released
Government officials in Thailand have warned that an unidentified militant group contaminated canned foods with HIV. [SEP] Thai cuisine // of 12). Among fruits, Sai Nam Phueng oranges were most contaminated as traces of chemicals were found in all eight samples. They were followed by dragon fruit (7 of 8), guava (6 of 7), papaya (3 of 6), watermelon (3 of 7), and cantaloupe (1 of 7). "Q-Mark" goods showed a higher prevalence of contamination, 61.5 percent, than they did during Thai-PAN's March 2016 survey, 57 percent. Q-Mark is the National Bureau of Agricultural Commodity and Food Standards (ACFS) mark of quality. In a survey of hydroponically-grown vegetables, Thai-PAN, in late-2017, tested 30 hydroponic vegetables purchased at Thai fresh markets
Government officials in Thailand have warned that an unidentified militant group contaminated canned foods with HIV. [SEP] Health in Thailand // drug program and, as of September 2006, more than 80,000 HIV/AIDS patients had received such drugs. The American Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) conducted a study in partnership with the Thailand Ministry of Public Health to ascertain the effectiveness of providing people who inject drugs illicitly with daily doses of the anti-retroviral drug Tenofovir as a prevention measure. The results of the study were released in mid-June 2013 and revealed a 48.9 percent reduced incidence of the virus among the group of subjects who received the drug, in comparison to the control group who received a placebo. The
Government officials in Thailand have warned that an unidentified militant group contaminated canned foods with HIV. [SEP] Prostitution in Thailand // combat the HIV/AIDS epidemic in the country, including Mechai's "100% condom programme", as of 1994 the use of condoms during commercial sex probably increased markedly. No current data on the use of condoms is available. The programme instructed sex workers to refuse intercourse without a condom, and monitored health clinic statistics in order to locate brothels that allow sex without condoms. A study done by AIDS Care investigated substance use of HIV risk behaviors among kathoey sex workers in Bangkok, Thailand. Only half of participants stated that they were tested for HIV and one had seen a health care provider
Government officials in Thailand have warned that an unidentified militant group contaminated canned foods with HIV. [SEP] Thai cuisine // for contamination. In their August 2016 evaluation, the group found that of 158 samples, 56 percent of produce was found to have unsafe levels of chemicals. A spokesperson for the group said that 70.2 percent of the produce from supermarkets was contaminated. Chinese kale topped the list of contaminated vegetables with 10 out of 11 samples containing residues. Red chillies (9 of 12) came in second, followed by cowpeas and basil (8 of 12), morning glory (7 of 12), small eggplants (6 of 11), cucumbers (5 of 11), tomatoes (3 of 11), cabbage (2 of 11), and Chinese cabbage (2
Government officials in Thailand have warned that an unidentified militant group contaminated canned foods with HIV. [SEP] Scombroid food poisoning // authorities in Singapore intercepted canned tuna imported from Thailand after finding high levels of histamine. No human cases were reported. In 2015, 7 people at a cafe in Sydney became ill after eating John Bull Tuna Chunky Style in safflower oil on tuna salads. The tinned tuna had come from Thailand. The Shenzhen Post reported that histamine poisoning from scombroid fish happens often in the autumn in Guangdong province in China. In August 2013, 26 people in Shenzen were poisoned after eating stale mackerel. Several people became ill after eating tuna sandwiches at a cafe in Edinburgh in Scotland in
Government officials in Thailand have warned that an unidentified militant group contaminated canned foods with HIV. [SEP] Prostitution in Thailand // HIV/Aids among Thai adults aged 15–49 is estimated to be 1.1 percent (2016). Among freelance female sex workers, the prevalence of HIV was 2.8 percent in 2017. Among female sex workers in brothels, it was 0.6 percent (2017). Mechai Viravaidya, known as "Mr. Condom", has campaigned tirelessly to increase the awareness of safe sex practices and use of condoms in Thailand. He served as minister for tourism and AIDS prevention from 1991 to 1992, and also founded the restaurant chain Cabbages and Condoms, which gives free condoms to customers. After the enactment of the Thai government's first five-year plan to
Government officials in Thailand have warned that an unidentified militant group contaminated canned foods with HIV. [SEP] Population and Community Development Association // additionally alarming statistics about the spread of HIV and the growing prevalence of AIDS in Thailand: the percentage of HIV positives in the Thai population was at 4% in December 1987 and by September 1988 had risen to 43% (a span of nine months) The Thai government did not address the AIDS epidemic. Mechai Viravaidya believed that the government’s lack of influence and assistance in the AIDS epidemic within Thailand required action by someone. Viravaidya assigned himself and the PDA to the task of addressing the HIV/AIDS and called upon everyone in the nation to become involved. The PDA believes
Government officials in Thailand have warned that an unidentified militant group contaminated canned foods with HIV. [SEP] HIV/AIDS in Thailand // strive for achieving universal access to treatment. As of the end of 2006, 88 percent of HIV-infected people were receiving ART, according to UNAIDS. Early in 2007, the government announced that it would, if necessary, break patents on drugs to treat HIV. Thailand's Government Pharmaceutical Organization will produce the antiretroviral drug efavirenz after receiving WHO approval in 2018. GPO's product costs 180 baht per bottle of thirty 600 mg tablets. The imported version retails for more than 1,000 baht per bottle. GPO will devote 2.5 percent of its manufacturing capacity to make 42 million efavirenz pills in 2018, allowing it
Girl Scouts USA’s curriculum "promotes Margaret Sanger, founder of Planned Parenthood, Betty Friedan, founder of NARAL Prochoice, and other pro-abortion women as icons for our children to emulate. [SEP] Girl Scouts of the USA // received the Thanks Badge and the recipient's service continues to merit further recognition. At least one nomination, two endorsements, and a review of the forms is required for each of these awards. Among the many famous American Girl Scouts are Dakota Fanning, Lucille Ball, Katie Couric, and Elizabeth Dole. Many Girl Scouts have become successful leaders in numerous professional fields such as law, medicine, politics, journalism, and science. Beginning with Lou Henry Hoover, the incumbent First Lady has served as the Honorary President of GSUSA. Lou Henry Hoover was also the actual President of the Girl Scouts from 1922 to
Girl Scouts USA’s curriculum "promotes Margaret Sanger, founder of Planned Parenthood, Betty Friedan, founder of NARAL Prochoice, and other pro-abortion women as icons for our children to emulate. [SEP] Girl Scouts of the USA // connections with Planned Parenthood. In 2003, in Waco, Texas, the local Bluebonnet Council was listed as a co-sponsor—with the Girl Scouts logo printed on the promotional flyer—of the Planned Parenthood of Central Texas event titled "Nobody's Fool '03: Dating, Love, Sex & HIV." In 2004, the same Council promoted a Planned Parenthood education event without providing money nor sending Girl Scouts to it. This was criticized by some pro-life movement supporters and social conservatives, resulting in a local attempt to boycott Girl Scout cookies sold by the Bluebonnet Council. Waco residents responded to the announced boycott by purchasing a record
Girl Scouts USA’s curriculum "promotes Margaret Sanger, founder of Planned Parenthood, Betty Friedan, founder of NARAL Prochoice, and other pro-abortion women as icons for our children to emulate. [SEP] NARAL Pro-Choice America // preserve the life or health of the mother—and those led by Betty Friedan and Conni Bille, favoring 'ad libitum' abortion rights at the discretion of the mother. These pro-choice advocates asserted that women should determine what was best for themselves in consultation with their physicians. The conference voted to adopt the pro-choice position. Those agents attending the session elected a 12-person Planning Committee for NARAL's formation: Lawrence Lader (Chairman), Ruth Proskauer Smith (Vice Chairman), Ruth Cusack (Secretary), Beatrice McClintock (Treasurer), Constance Bille Finnerty, Mrs. Marc Hughes Fisher, Betty Friedan, Norval Morris, Stewart Mott, Dr. Bernard Nathanson, Edna Smith, and Percy
Girl Scouts USA’s curriculum "promotes Margaret Sanger, founder of Planned Parenthood, Betty Friedan, founder of NARAL Prochoice, and other pro-abortion women as icons for our children to emulate. [SEP] Betty Friedan // (now NARAL Pro-Choice America) at a time when Planned Parenthood wasn't yet supportive. Alleged death threats against her speaking on abortion led to the cancellation of two events, although subsequently one of the host institutions, Loyola College, invited her back to speak on abortion and other homosexual rights issues and she did so. Her draft of NOW's first statement of purpose included an abortion plank, but NOW didn't include it until the next year. In 1980, she believed abortion should be in the context of "'the choice to have children'", a formulation supported by the Roman Catholic priest organizing Catholic
Girl Scouts USA’s curriculum "promotes Margaret Sanger, founder of Planned Parenthood, Betty Friedan, founder of NARAL Prochoice, and other pro-abortion women as icons for our children to emulate. [SEP] World Association of Girl Guides and Girl Scouts // up becoming leading politicians, writers, businesswomen, and leaders. Senator Hillary Clinton (United States Senate), the Rt. Hon Dr. Marjorie Mowlam MP (politician in the United Kingdom), Roberta Bondar Ph.D., MD (first Canadian woman astronaut), and Betty Okwir (leading politician in Uganda) are just a few former and current Girl Guides and Girl Scouts. In 1965, Dame Leslie Whateley of the then-"Girl Guides World Bureau" was awarded the Bronze Wolf, the only distinction of the World Organization of the Scout Movement, awarded by the World Scout Committee for exceptional services to world Scouting. Amongst its global initiatives, "Free Being Me", a
Girl Scouts USA’s curriculum "promotes Margaret Sanger, founder of Planned Parenthood, Betty Friedan, founder of NARAL Prochoice, and other pro-abortion women as icons for our children to emulate. [SEP] Girl Scouts of the USA // in America" among more than 100 charities. It describes itself as "the world's preeminent organization dedicated solely to girls." Girl Scouting in the United States of America began on March 12, 1912, when Juliette "Daisy" Gordon Low organized the first Girl Guide troop meeting of 18 girls in Savannah, Georgia. It has since grown to 3.7 million members. Low, who had met Baden-Powell in London while she was living in the United Kingdom, dreamed of giving the United States and the world "something for all the girls." She envisioned an organization that would bring girls out of their homes to
Girl Scouts USA’s curriculum "promotes Margaret Sanger, founder of Planned Parenthood, Betty Friedan, founder of NARAL Prochoice, and other pro-abortion women as icons for our children to emulate. [SEP] James E. West (Scouting) // Luther Gulick when the Camp Fire Girls were established and always considered them to be the sister program of the BSA. When the Girl Scouts refused to give up their name in 1918, West appealed to Baden-Powell with no results. Lou Henry Hoover became the president of the Girl Scouts in 1922 and First Lady in 1929; West then stopped his campaign to rename the Girl Scouts. West negotiated the purchase of "Boys' Life" in 1912, making it the official magazine of the BSA. He began a campaign against pulp fiction and introduced a library of recommended books. The BSA
Girl Scouts USA’s curriculum "promotes Margaret Sanger, founder of Planned Parenthood, Betty Friedan, founder of NARAL Prochoice, and other pro-abortion women as icons for our children to emulate. [SEP] Girl Scouts of the USA // amount of cookies, and the Bluebonnet Council dropped promotion of the event. A month later, GSUSA CEO Kathy Cloninger went on NBC's "Today" show, defending the Bluebonnet Council's decision to sever ties with Planned Parenthood. The title has changed over the years. National Secretaries: National Directors: National Executive Directors: Chief Executive Officers: GSUSA celebrated the 100th anniversary of its founding by Juliette Low with a "Bridge to the Second Century" event on November 13, 2011, at the GS National Convention in Houston and other sites around the country. The Anniversary was also celebrated by participation in the world-famous Pasadena, California
Girl Scouts USA’s curriculum "promotes Margaret Sanger, founder of Planned Parenthood, Betty Friedan, founder of NARAL Prochoice, and other pro-abortion women as icons for our children to emulate. [SEP] Girl Scouts of the USA // Girl Scouts of the USA Girl Scouts of the United States of America (GSUSA), commonly referred to as simply Girl Scouts in the US, is a youth organization for girls in the United States and American girls living abroad. Founded by Juliette Gordon Low in 1912, it was organized after Low met Robert Baden-Powell, the founder of Scouting, in 1911. Upon returning to Savannah, Georgia, she telephoned a distant cousin, saying, "I've got something for the girls of Savannah, and all of America, and all the world, and we're going to start it tonight!" Girl Scouts prepares girls to empower
Girl Scouts USA’s curriculum "promotes Margaret Sanger, founder of Planned Parenthood, Betty Friedan, founder of NARAL Prochoice, and other pro-abortion women as icons for our children to emulate. [SEP] Esther R. Sanger // founder, spark plug, fund raiser, chief cook, legal advocate, crafty strategist, and Christian example in these crisis-intervention efforts. In an interview she said she considered herself pro-life, but found it troubling that in the pro-life movement there was "a great deal of interest in the unborn child but very few places to help out after the baby is born." With that in mind, she opened the Mary–Martha Learning Center in Hingham, Massachusetts, which provided housing, counseling, and other services to homeless women with children. She began studying for ordination, and served as assistant pastor of Dorchester Second Church, an inner-city
Reports of e-cigarette injury jump amid rising popularity, U.S. data show. [SEP] Electronic cigarette // that less than 15% became everyday e-cigarette users. Though e-cigarette use among those who have never smoked is very low, it continues to rise. One United States survey of e-cigarette users conducted from 2011–2012 found that only 1% of respondents used liquid without nicotine. Everyday use is common among e-cigarette users. Many e-cigarette users are middle-aged men who also smoke traditional cigarettes. E-cigarette use is rising among women. In the US, , 12.6% of adults had used an e-cigarette at least once and approximately 3.7% were still using them. 1.1% of adults were daily users. Non-smokers and former smokers who
Reports of e-cigarette injury jump amid rising popularity, U.S. data show. [SEP] Safety of electronic cigarettes // and a greater chance to report a moderate or major adverse effect than traditional cigarette calls. Most of the e-cigarette and traditional cigarette calls were a minor effect. Severe outcomes were more than 2.5 times more frequent in children exposed to e-cigarettes and nicotine e-liquid than with traditional cigarettes. E-cigarette sales were roughly equivalent to just 3.5% of traditional cigarette sales, but of the total number of e-cigarette and traditional cigarette calls to US poison control centers in December 2014, the reported e-cigarettes calls were 44%. From September 1, 2010 to December 31, 2014, the most frequent adverse effects to
Reports of e-cigarette injury jump amid rising popularity, U.S. data show. [SEP] Electronic cigarette // a Tobacco Product, the authors chose to use the term e-cigarettes for some use e-juice without nicotine. Between their introduction to the market in 2004 and approximately 2015, global usage of e-cigarettes rose exponentially. By 2013, there were several million users globally. Awareness and use of e-cigarettes greatly increased in a relatively short period of time. Growth rates in the US and UK slowed in 2015, although use is still increasing. Most users have a history of smoking regular cigarettes. At least 52% of smokers or ex-smokers in one area have vaped. Of smokers who have, one British study reported
Reports of e-cigarette injury jump amid rising popularity, U.S. data show. [SEP] Safety of electronic cigarettes // connected with higher cognitive function processes, later achievement, as well as the chance of nicotine addiction for life. The adolescent's developing brain is especially sensitive to the harmful effects of nicotine. A short period of regular or occasional nicotine exposure in adolescence exerts long-term neurobehavioral damage. In August 2014, the American Heart Association noted that "e-cigarettes could fuel and promote nicotine addiction, especially in children." A policy statement by the UK's Faculty of Public Health has stated, "A key concern for everyone in public health is that children and young people are being targeted by mass advertising of e-cigarettes. There
Reports of e-cigarette injury jump amid rising popularity, U.S. data show. [SEP] Electronic cigarette // sensation-seeking or symbolic of rebellion. Appealing flavors are another very commonly cited reason for using e-cigarettes among minors. Some researchers and anti-tobacco advocates are concerned that irresponsible marketing could make e-cigarettes appeal to young people. There is also a risk that infants or toddlers could ingest the e-liquid from an improperly-stored device. About 48% of poison control calls involved exposures in children in 2016. In 2016 there were 2,907 total calls specifically regarding e-cigarettes and liquid nicotine for all age ranges. The number of these calls seems to be trending downward after a peak of 4,023 calls for all ages
Reports of e-cigarette injury jump amid rising popularity, U.S. data show. [SEP] Electronic cigarette // increased by 1398.2% in the US. In December 2014 for instance, e-cigarette sales in the US were roughly equivalent to just 3.5% of traditional cigarette sales, but e-cigarettes represented 44% of all e-cigarette and traditional cigarette calls to US poison control centers. The accidental nicotine exposure rate in the US has since decreased by 18.9% between July 2016, when the Child Nicotine Poisoning Prevention Act of 2015, a federal law requiring child-resistant packaging for e-liquid, came into effect, and April 2017. According to a regression discontinuity design study by Govindarajan et al. (2018), the 32 states without a preexisting law
Reports of e-cigarette injury jump amid rising popularity, U.S. data show. [SEP] Safety of electronic cigarettes // area when an e-cigarette exploded in his mouth. A young man endured bilateral corneal burns to the eye area when an e-cigarette exploded near his chest. E-cigarette explosions have resulted in burns, lost teeth, neck fractures, and battery acid contact to the face, mouth, and eyes. A man died when a charging an e-cigarette blew up and caught on fire next to oxygen equipment. House and car fires and skin burns have resulted from some of the explosions. The explosions were the result of extended charging, use of unsuitable chargers, or design flaws. There is a possible risk to bystanders
Reports of e-cigarette injury jump amid rising popularity, U.S. data show. [SEP] Electronic cigarette // and aluminum. The assertion that e-cigarettes emit "only water vapor" is false because the evidence indicates e-cigarette vapor contains possibly harmful chemicals such as nicotine, carbonyls, metals, and organic volatile compounds, in addition to particulates. The number of e-cigarettes sold increased every year from 2003 to 2015, when a slowdown in the growth in usage occurred in both the US and the UK. there were at least 466 e-cigarette brands. Worldwide e-cigarette sales in 2014 were around US$7 billion. Approximately 30–50% of total e-cigarettes sales are handled on the internet. The consumer preference for e-cigarettes is having a dramatic effect
Reports of e-cigarette injury jump amid rising popularity, U.S. data show. [SEP] Safety of electronic cigarettes // is a small risk of battery explosion in devices modified to increase battery power. Since e-cigarettes are not subjected to product safety testing, they may not have safety designs to avoid overheating, thermal runaway, and battery failure including fire and explosions. There is inadequate product labeling to inform users of the possible serious harms. The risk from serious adverse effects is low, but the aftermath may be disastrous in respect to an e-cigarette blast. Victims have filed lawsuits to make restitution from the e-cigarette blasts. Adverse effects may be under-reported because reports to the FDA is voluntary. In January 2015
Reports of e-cigarette injury jump amid rising popularity, U.S. data show. [SEP] Positions of medical organizations on electronic cigarettes // youths and they are now the most commonly used tobacco product among adolescents. Initiation of electronic cigarette use is strongly associated with the subsequent initiation of combustible tobacco product use among adolescents." In January 2014, the International Union Against Tuberculosis and Lung Disease released a statement asserting that the benefits and safety of e-cigarettes have not been scientifically proven. The statement highlighted concerns with regards to "re-normalization" of smoking behavior and exposure of third parties to possibly dangerous emissions from e-cigarettes, and strongly supported regulation of electronic cigarettes, preferably as medicines. The World Lung Foundation (now known as Vital Strategies)
UK pushes for more ventilators, hospital beds as coronavirus cases mount. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // coronavirus researcher at the Erasmus Medical Center (EMC) in Rotterdam, The Netherlands. The second laboratory-proven case was in London, confirmed by the UK Health Protection Agency (HPA). The HPA named the virus the London1_novel CoV 2012. On 8 November 2012, in an article published in the New England Journal of Medicine, Dr. Zaki and co-authors from the Erasmus Medical Center published more details, including a scientific name, Human Coronavirus-Erasmus Medical Center (HCoV-EMC), which was then used in scientific literature. In the article, they noted four respiratory human coronaviruses (HCoV) known to be endemic: 229E, OC43, NL63, and HKU1. In May
UK pushes for more ventilators, hospital beds as coronavirus cases mount. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // in Manchester in an elderly man who had recently visited the Middle East and Pakistan; it was the 10th case globally. The man's son, whom he visited in the hospital in Birmingham, was immuno-suppressed because of a brain tumour, and contracted the virus, providing the first clear evidence for person-to-person transmission. He died on 19 February 2013. The second patient was a 49-year-old Qatari man who had visited Saudi Arabia before falling ill. He was flown privately by air ambulance from Doha to London on 11 September where he was admitted to St Mary's Hospital and later was transferred to
UK pushes for more ventilators, hospital beds as coronavirus cases mount. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // and from that family at least one additional person presented similar symptoms but tested negative for the novel coronavirus. On 21 February 2013, WHO stated that there had been 13 laboratory-confirmed cases, 6 cases (4 fatal) from Saudi Arabia, 2 cases (both fatal) from Jordan, 2 cases from Qatar, and 3 from the UK. In March 2013, the Saudi Arabia Ministry of Health reported the death of a 39-year-old man, the 15th case and 9th death reported to WHO. On 2 May 2013, the Saudi Ministry of Health announced five people died and two other people were in critical condition
UK pushes for more ventilators, hospital beds as coronavirus cases mount. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // St Thomas's Hospital. As a result of Dr Zaki's post on Pro-MED, the novel coronavirus was quickly identified. He was treated for respiratory disease and, like the first patient in Saudi Arabia, died of renal failure in October 2012. Another patient who had been in Guys and St Thomas hospital in the UK since September 2012 after visiting the Middle East died on 28 June 2013. A spokesperson for the hospital stated that "Guys and St Thomas can confirm that the patient with severe respiratory illness due to novel coronavirus (MERS-COV) sadly died on Friday 28 June, after his condition
UK pushes for more ventilators, hospital beds as coronavirus cases mount. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // deteriorated despite every effort and full supportive treatment." As of April 2014, the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control reported a total of 4 cases in the United Kingdom, 3 of which were fatalities. As of July 2015 there has been 2 suspected cases of the disease On 2 May 2014, the United States Centers for Disease Control (CDC) confirmed the first diagnosis of MERS-CoV in the United States in Indiana. The man diagnosed was a healthcare worker who had been in Saudi Arabia a week earlier, and was reported to be in good condition. Another case, a Florida
UK pushes for more ventilators, hospital beds as coronavirus cases mount. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // a nurse who came in contact with the deceased patient are suspected to have contracted the disease. The victim's son-in-law is also reported to have been infected. According to Dr. Gooya, the infection of 1 out of the 3 suspected patients is confirmed and more tests are under way to determine the situation of the other two patients. On 7 May 2013, a case was confirmed in Nord departement of France in a man who had previously traveled to Dubai, United Arab Emirates. On 12 May 2013, in a case of human to human transmission, a man previously hospitalized in
UK pushes for more ventilators, hospital beds as coronavirus cases mount. [SEP] Human coronavirus NL63 // in approximately 4.7% of common respiratory illnesses. Further studies confirmed that the virus is not an emerging virus, but rather one that continually circulates the human population. The first cases of the infection with HCoV-NL63 were found in young children with severe lower respiratory tract infections admitted to hospitals. While the clinical presentation of the virus can be severe, it has also been found in mild cases of respiratory infection. The comorbidity of HCoV-NL63 with other respiratory infections, has made the specific symptoms of the virus difficult to pinpoint. A study of clinical symptoms in HCoV-NL63 patients without secondary infection,
UK pushes for more ventilators, hospital beds as coronavirus cases mount. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // government, in November 2013, reported a woman in Spain, who had recently traveled to Saudi Arabia for the Islamic pilgrimage, contracted the disease. On 14 April 2014, one Filipino paramedic died in the United Arab Emirates, with six other reported to be infected with the virus. On 17 April, the UAE Ministry of Health reported another fatality and four additional cases, including the Filipino medical worker who travelled to the Philippines on 16 April. On 21 April 2014, the Health Ministry of UAE reported an additional 9 cases. In April 2012, six hospital workers were diagnosed with acute respiratory failure
UK pushes for more ventilators, hospital beds as coronavirus cases mount. [SEP] Coronavirus // 2013, a case of contamination from human to human in France was confirmed by the French Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. In addition, cases of person-to-person transmission have been reported by the Ministry of Health in Tunisia. Two confirmed cases seem to have caught the disease from their late father, who became ill after a visit to Qatar and Saudi Arabia. By Oct. 30 2013, there were 124 cases and 52 deaths in Saudi Arabia. After the Dutch Erasmus Medical Centre sequenced the virus, the virus was given a new name, Human Corona Virus-Erasmus Medical Centre (HCoV-EMC). The final
UK pushes for more ventilators, hospital beds as coronavirus cases mount. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // of unknown origin. Of the six, two died. All the cases were reported to the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC). After the September identification of a novel CoV strain, a retroactive analysis of the hospital workers was performed. Epidemiologists discovered the Jordan cases. Using stored laboratory samples for all six, it was found that samples from the two patients who had died tested positive for nCoV. On 24 April 2014, a 25-year-old male was found positive for the coronavirus. He had history of exposure to camels and had consumed camel milk. The Ministry of Health and Medical
A meme showing a mug shot of U.S. Rep. Matt Gaetz suggests that the congressman has had “seven DUIs” and is responsible for the “suspicious” death of his college roommate. [SEP] Matt Gaetz // would not support changing "one damn comma," though he indicated that he would listen to both sides' testimony during the hearings. Following the conclusion of the hearings, he authored legislation that would allow defendants who successfully used a "stand your ground" defense during their trial "to apply for a 'certificate of eligibility' to expunge information related to 'stand your ground' from their criminal records." When his subcommittee was considering legislation that would "keep mug shots of people who are charged with crimes off the Internet until they are convicted," Gaetz brought up his 2008 arrest for driving under the influence,
A meme showing a mug shot of U.S. Rep. Matt Gaetz suggests that the congressman has had “seven DUIs” and is responsible for the “suspicious” death of his college roommate. [SEP] Matt Gaetz // member of the Florida State Senate from 2006 to 2016 and served as Senate President from 2012 to 2014. Gaetz's grandfather, Jerry Gaetz, was the mayor of Rugby, North Dakota and a candidate for Lieutenant Governor of North Dakota at the 1964 North Dakota Republican Party state convention, where he died of a heart attack while his son watched television coverage of the event. In 2008, Gaetz was arrested for a DUI as he was driving back from the Swamp, a nightclub on Okaloosa Island, Florida. While he was arrested and refused to take a breathalyzer test, "he didn't have
A meme showing a mug shot of U.S. Rep. Matt Gaetz suggests that the congressman has had “seven DUIs” and is responsible for the “suspicious” death of his college roommate. [SEP] Matt Gaetz // between the congressman Dana Rohrabacher and Julian Assange in 2017. In April 2018, Gaetz received backlash for his association with controversial political consultant Roger Stone. This friendship drew scrutiny after Stone made comments about the recent death of First Lady Barbara Bush. In an appearance on the conspiratorial site "InfoWars", Stone called Bush a "mean-spirited, vindictive, drunk." Prior to the incident, Gaetz referred to Stone as "the brightest political mind in America" and posted a selfie with him on his personal Twitter account. Gaetz is the son of Florida politician Don Gaetz, who represented parts of Northwest Florida as a
A meme showing a mug shot of U.S. Rep. Matt Gaetz suggests that the congressman has had “seven DUIs” and is responsible for the “suspicious” death of his college roommate. [SEP] Matt Gaetz // and 2014, Gaetz received 16 speeding tickets in Florida. Matt Gaetz Matthew Louis Gaetz II ( "gates"; born May 7, 1982) is the U.S. Representative for since 2017, where he serves on the Budget, Armed Services, and Judiciary Committees. He is a member of the Republican Party. Prior to serving in Congress he was a member of the Florida House of Representatives, representing the 4th District, which includes most of Okaloosa County, from 2010 to 2016. He has also worked as an attorney in Fort Walton Beach, Florida. Gaetz was born in Hollywood, Florida, to Victoria "Vicky" (Quertermous) and politician
A meme showing a mug shot of U.S. Rep. Matt Gaetz suggests that the congressman has had “seven DUIs” and is responsible for the “suspicious” death of his college roommate. [SEP] Matt Gaetz // arguing that his mistakes made him who he is and that publicly available mug shots "could be a problem for those unaccustomed to publicity." In 2013, Gaetz announced that in 2016 he would run for the 1st district state senate seat then held by his father, State Senator Don Gaetz. His father was due to be term-limited out of the Senate in 2016. On March 21, 2016, Gaetz withdrew from the state race to run for the U.S. House seat representing Florida's 1st congressional district, since the incumbent, Jeff Miller, had announced on March 10 he would not seek reelection.
A meme showing a mug shot of U.S. Rep. Matt Gaetz suggests that the congressman has had “seven DUIs” and is responsible for the “suspicious” death of his college roommate. [SEP] 2017 Congressional baseball shooting // "fair" on June 21, though he was readmitted to intensive care on July 5 due to concerns of infection. Matt Mika, a Tyson Foods lobbyist, was shot multiple times in the chest and arm, injuring his lungs, sternum and ribs. He is a former baseball player and former legislative assistant for Congressmen Tim Walberg and Dave Camp, both Republicans from Michigan. Mika was taken to the George Washington University Hospital where he underwent surgery for his injuries. He was in critical condition immediately following surgery. The day after the shooting, his condition was upgraded from critical to serious. On June
A meme showing a mug shot of U.S. Rep. Matt Gaetz suggests that the congressman has had “seven DUIs” and is responsible for the “suspicious” death of his college roommate. [SEP] Matt Gaetz // tweet: "To all who will kneel during the anthem today – just remember how José Fernández risked his life just for the chance to stand for it". In Congress, Gaetz is a member of the Climate Solutions Caucus, which seeks to find bipartisan, regulatory solutions to global warming. Previously, Gaetz was listed online as a member of the moderate Republican Main Street Partnership from at least January to June 2017. Gaetz has been called "one of the most pro-gun members to have ever served in the Florida Legislature" by former NRA president Marion Hammer. Gaetz is a "Lifetime Member" of
A meme showing a mug shot of U.S. Rep. Matt Gaetz suggests that the congressman has had “seven DUIs” and is responsible for the “suspicious” death of his college roommate. [SEP] Legislative violence // the chamber's ceremonial mace and brandished it over his head, but was restrained by Jim Prior, and after his departure legislative action was suspended for the day. Federalist Congressman Roger Griswold of Connecticut attacked Vermont Representative Matthew Lyon with a hickory walking stick in the chambers of the United States House of Representatives. Griswold struck Lyon repeatedly about the head, shoulders and arms, while Lyon attempted to shield himself from the blows. Lyon then turned and ran to the fireplace, took up a pair of metal tongs, and having armed himself thus returned to the engagement. Griswold then tripped Lyon
A meme showing a mug shot of U.S. Rep. Matt Gaetz suggests that the congressman has had “seven DUIs” and is responsible for the “suspicious” death of his college roommate. [SEP] Matt Gaetz // which opt not to dedicate local law enforcement resources to prosecuting people solely for being undocumented. Upon announcing his run for Congress, Gaetz declared that illegal immigrants are "sucking us dry." In January 2018 Gaetz defended an alleged controversial comment on Haiti by Trump, saying that the country was in a "disgusting" condition. In October 2018, Gaetz falsely claimed that George Soros paid for a caravan of migrants from Central America. In its July–August 2017 issue, "Foreign Policy" reported that Devin Murphy, a Gaetz legislative aide, had crowdsourced the amended contents of a resolution that Gaetz brought to the House
A meme showing a mug shot of U.S. Rep. Matt Gaetz suggests that the congressman has had “seven DUIs” and is responsible for the “suspicious” death of his college roommate. [SEP] Matt Gaetz // concealed carry reciprocity. In November 2017 Gaetz introduced a congressional resolution calling for Robert Mueller to recuse himself as Special Counsel due to conflicts of interest. In the resolution Gaetz also asked for a Special Counsel investigation into the handling of the Hillary Clinton email controversy by the FBI, undue interference of Attorney General Loretta Lynch in the investigation, and the acquisition of Uranium One by the Russian state corporation Rosatom during Mueller's time as FBI director. Gaetz stated that he did not trust him to lead the investigation because of Mueller's alleged involvement in approval of the Uranium One
A 26-year-old man named Alex Smith of Minneapolis died because he had aged out of his mother's health insurance and couldn't afford insulin. [SEP] Christian Science // after he died of peritonitis. The conviction was overturned; the appellate court ruled that the couple had "reasonably believed" they could rely on Christian Science prayer without being prosecuted. The first time the church was held liable (overturned on appeal) was in 1993 after 11-year-old Ian Lundman died of hyperglycaemia in Minnesota in 1989. The church sent a Christian Science nurse to sit with him; doctors testified that he could have been saved by an insulin injection up to two hours before his death. The mother and stepfather were charged with manslaughter, but the charges were dismissed. The boy's father
A 26-year-old man named Alex Smith of Minneapolis died because he had aged out of his mother's health insurance and couldn't afford insulin. [SEP] Susan Smith // Susan Smith Susan Leigh Vaughan Smith (born September 26, 1971) is an American convict who was sentenced to life in prison with the possibility of parole after serving 30 years for filicide. On July 22, 1995, Smith was convicted of the 1994 drowning deaths of her two sons, three-year-old Michael Daniel Smith and 14-month-old Alexander Tyler Smith. The case gained international attention because of Smith's false claim that an African-American man had kidnapped her sons during a carjacking. Her defense attorneys, David Bruck and Judy Clarke, called expert witnesses to testify that she suffered from mental health issues that impaired
A 26-year-old man named Alex Smith of Minneapolis died because he had aged out of his mother's health insurance and couldn't afford insulin. [SEP] Elizabeth Wettlaufer // patient with enough insulin to cause their death was on August 11, 2007, when she murdered James Silcox (84), a World War II veteran and father of six. Through March 2014, Wettlaufer also murdered the following patients at Caressant Care: While at Caressant Care, Wettlaufer also injected Michael Priddle (63) and Wayne Hedges (57) "with intent to murder". She confessed to two counts of attempted murder in these cases. She left employment at Caressant Care in 2014, but in part-time work at other facilities and at patients' homes, she injected three more people with insulin: Wettlaufer entered an inpatient drug
A 26-year-old man named Alex Smith of Minneapolis died because he had aged out of his mother's health insurance and couldn't afford insulin. [SEP] The Dead and the Gone // shortages and disease that kill millions of people in the process. Alex is forced to take care of his sisters in the absence of his mother and father and to raid dead bodies for valuables to trade for food. He struggles with his religious faith while trying desperately to survive. Alex Morales- A 17-year-old Puerto Rican boy who has to take care of his two younger sisters after a meteor hits the moon, knocking it closer to the earth, when his parents disappear. He blames himself for all of the things happening to his sisters. Near the end of the
A 26-year-old man named Alex Smith of Minneapolis died because he had aged out of his mother's health insurance and couldn't afford insulin. [SEP] Health care efficiency // can die at the same age after receiving successful treatment for his or her diseases (including life-threatening ones) and therefore enjoying much better health. Consider for instance a hypothetical Libyan man who died at 75 after poorly treated and long-lasting tooth problems, skin problems, gastrointestinal problems, urinary problems, joint problems, ear problems and eye problems. Then consider a hypothetical Danish man who died at the same age and had the same problems, each one of them promptly and effectively (and expensively) treated, and who was saved from cancer and myocardial infarction. The differences are striking. According to Bloomberg, however, there
A 26-year-old man named Alex Smith of Minneapolis died because he had aged out of his mother's health insurance and couldn't afford insulin. [SEP] Peter W. Smith // Lake Forest, Illinois. He was married to Janet; the couple had three children and three grandchildren at the time of his death. Smith died on May 14, 2017 in a hotel room in Rochester, Minnesota. He had checked into the hotel, which is near the Mayo Clinic, the day after speaking to the "Wall Street Journal". Nine days later he was found with a bag over his head that was attached to a helium source. Medical records list Smith's cause of death as "asphyxiation due to displacement of oxygen in confined space with helium." Police discovered a suicide note by
A 26-year-old man named Alex Smith of Minneapolis died because he had aged out of his mother's health insurance and couldn't afford insulin. [SEP] Charlie Smith (centenarian) // Charlie Smith (centenarian) Charlie Smith was a centenarian noted for claiming to be the oldest person in the United States. Smith stated that he had been born in Liberia in 1842 and kidnapped to the United States at age 12 and sold into slavery in Louisiana to a Texas rancher. Later research indicated that he had been born circa 1874 or even later. In particular, his marriage certificate, issued January 8, 1910, listed him as being 35 years old at the time. He died in Bartow, Florida in 1979, at the age of 105 (according to researchers) or 137 (according
A 26-year-old man named Alex Smith of Minneapolis died because he had aged out of his mother's health insurance and couldn't afford insulin. [SEP] Jeremy Vargas Sagastegui // injection at the age of 27. Jeremy Vargas Sagastegui Jeremy Vargas Sagastegui (November 1, 1970 – October 13, 1998) was convicted of three counts of aggravated first-degree murder for the drowning and beating of Kievan Sarbacher, 3, and the shooting deaths of his mother, Melissa Sarbacher, 21, and a second woman, Lisa Vera-Acevedo, 27. The killings occurred on November 19, 1995, in a mobile home in rural Finley, Washington, located east of Kennewick, where Sagastegui had been baby-sitting Sarbacher's two children. The second child, a 1-year-old girl, was unharmed. Sometime between the evening hours of November 18 and the early
A 26-year-old man named Alex Smith of Minneapolis died because he had aged out of his mother's health insurance and couldn't afford insulin. [SEP] Colin Norris // observation of one of your patients, Bridget Tarpey, who said 'he did not like us old women'." Referred to in the British press as the "Angel of Death", Norris was convicted of killing his victims by injecting them with high levels of insulin. Jessie McTavish, a nurse convicted and then cleared in 1974 for the murder of an 80-year-old patient with insulin, has been identified as a possible inspiration for Norris. He once attended a lecture on her case while studying at university. On 4 October 2011 new concerns were raised about the safety of Norris' conviction. Retired Professor Vincent
A 26-year-old man named Alex Smith of Minneapolis died because he had aged out of his mother's health insurance and couldn't afford insulin. [SEP] Don Smith (basketball, born 1951) // 21 free throw attempts. In 1980, he was inducted into the University of Dayton Hall of Fame. Smith had been on dialysis for two years and was on The Ohio State University's waiting list for a kidney donor when, after being hospitalized for two weeks with heart problems, he died on March 9, 2004 at age 52. Smith had been seriously injured in an automobile accident several months earlier, and that may have contributed to his death. His wife, Katrina, who was also injured in the accident, survived him. In 2004, Smith was named to the University of Dayton's All-Century
UN health revises advice for 3 infections transmitted by sex. [SEP] Transmission (medicine) // is more elastic and more accommodating. Some diseases transmissible by the sexual route include HIV/AIDS, chlamydia, genital warts, gonorrhea, hepatitis B, syphilis, herpes, and trichomoniasis. Sexually transmitted diseases such as HIV and hepatitis B are thought to not normally be transmitted through mouth-to-mouth contact, although it is possible to transmit some STDs between the genitals and the mouth, during oral sex. In the case of HIV this possibility has been established. It is also responsible for the increased incidence of herpes simplex virus 1 (which is usually responsible for oral infections) in genital infections and the increased incidence of the
UN health revises advice for 3 infections transmitted by sex. [SEP] Oral sex // hepatitis (multiple strains), and other sexually transmitted infections (STIs), can be transmitted through oral sex. Any sexual exchange of bodily fluids with a person infected with HIV, the virus that causes AIDS, poses a risk of infection. Risk of STI infection, however, is generally considered significantly lower for oral sex than for vaginal or anal sex, with HIV transmission considered the lowest risk with regard to oral sex. There is an increased risk of STI transmission if the receiving partner has wounds on his or her genitals, or if the giving partner has wounds or open sores on or in
UN health revises advice for 3 infections transmitted by sex. [SEP] Fellatio // and other sexually transmitted infections (STIs/STDs), can be transmitted through oral sex. Any sexual exchange of bodily fluids with a person infected with HIV, the virus that causes AIDS, poses a risk of infection. Risk of STI infection, however, is generally considered significantly lower for oral sex than for vaginal or anal sex, with HIV transmission considered the lowest risk with regard to oral sex. There is an increased risk of STI transmission if the receiving partner has wounds on his genitals, or if the giving partner has wounds or open sores on or in his or her mouth, or
UN health revises advice for 3 infections transmitted by sex. [SEP] Sexual intercourse // widely recommended for the prevention of sexually transmitted infections (STIs). According to reports by the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and World Health Organization (WHO), correct and consistent use of latex condoms reduces the risk of HIV/AIDS transmission by approximately 85–99% relative to risk when unprotected. The most effective way to avoid sexually transmitted infections is to abstain from sexual intercourse, especially vaginal, anal, and oral sexual intercourse. Decisions and options concerning birth control can be affected by cultural reasons, such as religion, gender roles or folklore. In the predominantly Catholic countries Ireland, Italy and the Philippines, fertility awareness and
UN health revises advice for 3 infections transmitted by sex. [SEP] Sexually transmitted infection // ability to get pregnant. More than 30 different bacteria, viruses, and parasites can be transmitted through sexual activity. Bacterial STIs include chlamydia, gonorrhea, and syphilis. Viral STIs include genital herpes, HIV/AIDS, and genital warts. Parasitic STIs include trichomoniasis. While usually spread by sex, some STIs can be spread by non-sexual contact with donor tissue, blood, breastfeeding, or during childbirth. STI diagnostic tests are usually easily available in the developed world, but this is often not the case in the developing world. The most effective way of preventing STIs is by not having sex. Some vaccinations may also decrease the risk
UN health revises advice for 3 infections transmitted by sex. [SEP] Transmission (medicine) // person, including vaginal or anal sex or (less commonly) through oral sex (see below). Transmission is either directly between surfaces in contact during intercourse (the usual route for bacterial infections and those infections causing sores) or from secretions (semen or the fluid secreted by the excited female) which carry infectious agents that get into the partner's blood stream through tiny tears in the penis, vagina or rectum (this is a more usual route for viruses). In this second case, anal sex is considerably more hazardous since the penis opens more tears in the rectum than the vagina, as the vagina
UN health revises advice for 3 infections transmitted by sex. [SEP] Dry sex // men and women. Dry sex is common in Sub-Saharan Africa and it has also been reported in Suriname among Afro-Surinamese women. The practice has been linked to the high incidence of HIV/AIDS infection in Sub-Saharan Africa. The practice is regarded as increasing the risk of transmitting sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) for both partners, including HIV in a number of ways. Increased friction during intercourse may cause lacerations in vaginal tissue. Drying the vagina also removes the natural antiseptic lactobacilli which can combat sexually transmitted diseases. Furthermore, dry sex increases the risk that a condom will break because of the increased
UN health revises advice for 3 infections transmitted by sex. [SEP] Diseases of poverty // the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, as priorities for public health action based on the number of people infected, the severity of the illnesses, and the ability to prevent and treat them. Trichomoniasis is the most common sexually transmitted infection affecting more than 200 million people worldwide. It is especially prevalent among young, poor and African American women. This infection is also common in poor communities in Sub-Saharan Africa and impoverished parts of Asia. This neglected infection is one of special concern because it is associated with a heightened risk for contracting HIV and pre-term deliveries. In addition, availability
UN health revises advice for 3 infections transmitted by sex. [SEP] Safe sex // from bacterial infectious such as gonorrhea or chlamydia, although this is debated. Coitus interruptus (or "pulling out"), in which the penis is removed from the vagina, anus, or mouth before ejaculation, may reduce transmission of STIs but still carries significant risk. This is because pre-ejaculate, a fluid that oozes from the penile urethra before ejaculation, may contain STI pathogens. Additionally, the microbes responsible for some diseases, including genital warts and syphilis, can be transmitted through skin-to-skin or mucous membrane contact. Unprotected anal penetration is considered a high-risk sexual activity because the thin tissues of the anus and rectum can be
UN health revises advice for 3 infections transmitted by sex. [SEP] Sexually transmitted infection // of certain infections including hepatitis B and some types of HPV. Safer sex practices such as use of condoms, having a smaller number of sexual partners, and being in a relationship where each person only has sex with the other also decreases the risk. Circumcision in males may be effective to prevent some infections. During school, comprehensive sex education may also be useful. Most STIs are treatable or curable. Of the most common infections, syphilis, gonorrhea, chlamydia, and trichomoniasis are curable, while herpes, hepatitis B, HIV/AIDS, and HPV are treatable but not curable. Resistance to certain antibiotics is developing among
Alex Sink wants to "cut Medicare. [SEP] Alex Sink // district twice, and Sink had carried the district in her gubernatorial campaign against Scott. The race was close, with Sink taking 46.6 percent of the vote to Jolly's 48.4 percent. Sink supported the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (H.R. 3020) passed by the United States Congress and enacted on March 30, 2010. Alex Sink believes in the placement of children in a home where it is in the best interests of children regardless of gender preference. She addressed a group of 300 gay and lesbian advocates at the Museum of Art Fort Lauderdale. She said, "We need a system
Alex Sink wants to "cut Medicare. [SEP] Alex Sink // Alex Sink Adelaide Alexander Sink (born June 5, 1948) is an American politician and financier. A member of the Democratic Party, Sink was the Chief Financial Officer for the state of Florida and treasurer on the board of trustees of the Florida State Board of Administration. She was the Democratic nominee for Governor of Florida and faced Republican nominee Rick Scott in the 2010 Florida gubernatorial election, losing to Scott by a 1% margin. Sink was the unsuccessful Democratic candidate in the special election, losing to Republican David Jolly on March 11, 2014, in a race to fill the vacancy
Alex Sink wants to "cut Medicare. [SEP] Alex Sink // was the Democratic candidate for Florida's office of Chief Financial Officer in 2006. She defeated Republican Tom Lee 53.5 percent to 46.5 percent. She also was the first Democrat elected to the state Cabinet since 1998. On August 30, 2010, Sink sent letters to the Florida Supreme Court and Florida Department of Management Services that preliminary findings warranted an audit via her DFS, Bureau of Auditing for excessive spending on the First District Court of Appeal of Florida courthouse, referred to as the "Taj Mahal" by judges around Florida as their districts are facing budget cuts. The CFO's office states
Alex Sink wants to "cut Medicare. [SEP] Alex Sink // in September. On October 25, 2010, during a televised debate, Sink read a text message sent to her make up artist's cellular phone from a campaign official instructing Sink as to debate strategy, contrary to the rules of the debate. Sink fired the adviser who sent the text message. After a close election, Sink conceded, giving victory to Scott. He carried 49% of the vote, and she 48%. Republican Bill Young, who had represented the 13th District and its predecessors since 1971, died on October 18, 2013. On October 30, Sink told the "Tampa Bay Times" that she would run
Alex Sink wants to "cut Medicare. [SEP] Alex Sink // in which all of our children are assured that they live in a healthy, loving home -- a home that's determined not by any law." "The decision has to be made by the judge, in consultation with the experts, to determine what is the best for that individual child." Since her two unsuccessful electoral campaigns, Sink has become involved in mentoring tech startups in the Tampa Bay area. On whether she would run for public office again, she said "I've learned to never say never, but I don't think it will happen." Alex Sink Adelaide Alexander Sink (born June 5,
Alex Sink wants to "cut Medicare. [SEP] Alex Sink // making them the only married American couple to both run unsuccessfully in gubernatorial races. They have a son, Bert, and a daughter, Lexi. Sink is a former President of Florida Operations at NationsBank, now Bank of America. She was appointed by former Governor Lawton Chiles to the Commission on Government Accountability to the People, and also served on Chiles' Commission on Education. She was vice-chair of Florida TaxWatch. Sink has also served with the Florida Chapter of the Nature Conservancy, the Beth El Farm Workers Ministry, and as Chairman of the Board of the United Way of Hillsborough County. Sink
Alex Sink wants to "cut Medicare. [SEP] Alex Sink // In January 2009, Sink announced she would not run for either seat, preferring to stand for reelection as CFO. The announcement that Gov. Charlie Crist would forgo re-election to run for the Senate seat being vacated by Mel Martinez altered her position, and on May 13, 2009, Sink announced her intention to run for governor. On August 24, 2010, Sink won the Democratic primary for governor. She faced health care executive Rick Scott in the general election, as well as an independent (NPA) candidate, urban designer and policy analyst, Michael E. Arth. A former independent candidate, Bud Chiles, endorsed Sink
Alex Sink wants to "cut Medicare. [SEP] 2010 Florida gubernatorial election // spent $78 million of his personal wealth in the race. Sink made an issue of Scott's connections to Columbia/HCA, a Medicare billing fraud scandal. One of the turning points in the campaign came during the debate. During a commercial break, Sink's make-up artist delivered a text message on her cell phone to Sink, in direct violation of the debate rules. The rules infraction was immediately pointed out by Scott and the debate moderators. Sink's team was accused of cheating during the debate, and the aide who delivered the message was fired from the campaign the next morning. Afterwards, media and
Alex Sink wants to "cut Medicare. [SEP] 2010 Florida gubernatorial election // and highly contentious election was one of the standout races in 2010. Despite not professing direct allegiance to the movement, Scott benefited from support and endorsement by Tea Party activists, an influential conservative voting bloc of the 2010 midterms. Furthermore, Scott ran aggressively against the Affordable Care Act (Obamacare), and exit polls indicated considerable support for that position. Alex Sink, the CFO of Florida, was mentioned as a possible candidate to run for Senate or Governor in 2010, but initially declined. When Charlie Crist announced he would not run for re-election, Sink immediately announced her campaign for governor. Sink was
Alex Sink wants to "cut Medicare. [SEP] Alex Sink // in the special election to replace him. She quickly gained support from national Democratic power brokers. The only other declared Democratic candidate, Jessica Ehrlich, who had faced Young in the 2012 general election, dropped out of the race on November 6, effectively handing the nomination to Sink. She faced David Jolly, Young's former general counsel, in the March 11 election. A longtime resident of Thonotosassa in eastern Hillsborough County, Sink told the "Times" that she would move to Pinellas County as soon as possible. Although members of the House are required only to live in the state they represent, it
A prayer alert about Ryan Corbin, the grandson of singer Pat Boone. Ryan is described as being in a coma in Southern California with brain injury from a fall of three stories. [SEP] Pat Boone // in 1952 from David Lipscomb High School in Nashville. His younger brother, whose professional name is Nick Todd, was also a pop singer in the 1950s and is now a church music leader. In a 2007 interview on "The 700 Club", Boone claimed that he is the great-great-great-great grandson of the American pioneer Daniel Boone. He is a cousin of two stars of Western television series: Richard Boone of CBS's "Have Gun – Will Travel" and Randy Boone, of NBC's "The Virginian" and CBS's "Cimarron Strip". In November 1953, when he was 19 years old, Boone married Shirley Lee Foley,
A prayer alert about Ryan Corbin, the grandson of singer Pat Boone. Ryan is described as being in a coma in Southern California with brain injury from a fall of three stories. [SEP] Ryan Bingham // would like to say to his unborn child. Ryan's mother drank herself to death and his father committed suicide. Bingham's "Never Far Behind" from his "Tomorrowland" album is about his parents. Ryan Bingham George Ryan Bingham (born March 31, 1981) is an Americana singer-songwriter currently based in Los Angeles, California. After receiving critical acclaim for his first two studio releases on Lost Highway Records, 2007's "Mescalito" and 2009's "Roadhouse Sun", Bingham went on to collaborate with Grammy-winning producer T Bone Burnett on the soundtrack for the 2009 acclaimed film "Crazy Heart", including notably co-writing and performing the film's award-winning theme
A prayer alert about Ryan Corbin, the grandson of singer Pat Boone. Ryan is described as being in a coma in Southern California with brain injury from a fall of three stories. [SEP] Ryan Atwood // preoccupied by Marissa's letter, however, and acts coldly towards her. When she climbs the ladder he's working on to angrily give him his present, the ladder falls, along with the two of them, knocking them both unconscious. While in the hospital, Ryan and Taylor dream of being in an alternate dream universe of Newport, as if Ryan had never been adopted by the Cohen family. When Taylor misunderstands a conversation with a housekeeper from this world, she informs Ryan that Marissa is alive; Ryan says he never wants to wake up so he can be with her again. When he
A prayer alert about Ryan Corbin, the grandson of singer Pat Boone. Ryan is described as being in a coma in Southern California with brain injury from a fall of three stories. [SEP] Megan Timothy // Tennessee. By March 18 of that year she had competed a three-week engagement. Around 2010, and some years after her stroke and with a, rekindled interest in singing, she sought vocal coaching. She was coached vocally by Michael Rivers. Because of her brain injury, there were some issues with recording the album and it took some patience. Four years later her first CD album was released. In 2014, she released the album "As I Wander: Songs of Christmas" which featured vocalist Dan Cobb, singer-guitarist / producer Rivers, and cellist Marlene Moore. After her mother died, and having lost most of
A prayer alert about Ryan Corbin, the grandson of singer Pat Boone. Ryan is described as being in a coma in Southern California with brain injury from a fall of three stories. [SEP] Ryan Star // On December 3, 2010, Ryan Star performed for the 101.9 FM Miracle on State Street in Chicago Illinois, along with Ingrid Michaelson, and Maroon 5. Ryan Star Ryan Stahr Kulchinsky (born January 7, 1978) is an American rock singer-songwriter from Long Island, New York, currently signed on Island Records. His first major label record "", released via Atlantic in 2010, reached No. 31 on Billboard 200 and No. 10 on Billboard Rock albums chart. Star became known to a wider audience as contestant on the CBS reality TV show "" in 2006. His songs have featured on several TV shows
A prayer alert about Ryan Corbin, the grandson of singer Pat Boone. Ryan is described as being in a coma in Southern California with brain injury from a fall of three stories. [SEP] Ryan Murphey // Ryan Murphey Ryan Murphey is a Grammy-nominated music producer, songwriter, guitarist, and vocalist. Since 1988, Ryan has toured with his father, Michael Martin Murphey, as lead guitarist and vocalist in the Rio Grande Band. Ryan is Michael's oldest son, and has worked with his father extensively throughout most of his career. In 1988, Ryan and Michael recorded the duet, "Talkin' to the Wrong Man", which was released on Michael's "River of Time" album. Ryan produced several Michael Martin Murphey albums, including "Buckaroo Blue Grass" and "Buckaroo Blue Grass II", which were both nominated for Grammy Awards. Ryan also produced Michael's
A prayer alert about Ryan Corbin, the grandson of singer Pat Boone. Ryan is described as being in a coma in Southern California with brain injury from a fall of three stories. [SEP] Ryan O'Donnell // from working for 9 months. After a full recovery Ryan entered the Royal Shakespeare Company, joining the production of Romeo and Juliet, and later landed the role of Jimmy in the theatrical production of Quadrophenia musical, the famous rock opera by The Who. On that occasion, he returned to meet John O'Hara, who had organized the musical arrangement of Quadrophenia. Then he collaborated with Cat Stevens (now called Yusef) duet with British singer in the song "Matthew and Son". In 2012 he participated in the making of Ian Anderson's album Thick as a Brick 2, sequel to the historical Jethro
A prayer alert about Ryan Corbin, the grandson of singer Pat Boone. Ryan is described as being in a coma in Southern California with brain injury from a fall of three stories. [SEP] Bobby Ryan // Ryan's father, Bob Stevenson, an insurance company owner, badly beat Ryan's mother, Melody, in a drunken rage, leaving her hospitalized with four broken ribs, a skull fracture and a punctured lung. Ryan's father was charged with attempted murder and jumped bail, fleeing to Canada. His son and wife later forgave and joined him on the lam in Canada, living under assumed names. The family eventually relocated to El Segundo, California so that Ryan could play in an elite youth hockey feeder system. In February 2000, Ryan's father, who had been supporting the family as a professional gambler, was arrested at
A prayer alert about Ryan Corbin, the grandson of singer Pat Boone. Ryan is described as being in a coma in Southern California with brain injury from a fall of three stories. [SEP] Bryan Hutson // Bryan Hutson Bryan Hutson (born July 3, 1969 in Batesville, IN) is a gospel musician who has played with "The New Generation", "The Blackwood Quartet", The Kingsmen Quartet, and "The Soul'd Out Quartet"and is currently partnered with his wife: Yvonne, in “Rescue Me Ministries.” . Bryan, Yvonne and family moved to the Cincinnati, OH area in 2013. They have four children; Alexa, Jordan, Jake and Bailey. Charlotte Grace; (daughter of Alexa and Bryan and Yvonne's first grandchild) was born on May 2, 2015. He began his career in Southern Gospel Music in 1982. His family group; ""The Singing Woods Family""
A prayer alert about Ryan Corbin, the grandson of singer Pat Boone. Ryan is described as being in a coma in Southern California with brain injury from a fall of three stories. [SEP] Barry Corbin // his small Texas ranch near Fort Worth. He has volunteered his time to charity for many years, including rodeos and being spokesman for the National Alopecia Areata Foundation. In 2006, he participated in the Lubbock centennial. Corbin lives on the ranch with his daughter, Shannon Ross (born 1965) and grandchildren. Shannon had been adopted as an infant; her birth mother, who had an affair with Corbin, gave up the child through the Methodist Mission Home in San Antonio, without having told Corbin of the pregnancy. Corbin found Shannon in June 1991, when she was 26. Corbin has three sons: Bernard
COVID-19 doctors are reporting inexplicable blood-clotting and hematological complications in otherwise young and healthy patients. [SEP] Extracorporeal membrane oxygenation // stagnant blood within the ECMO circuit. In addition, the arterial and venous lines should be flushed continuously with heparinized saline or intermittently with heparinized blood from the circuit. In general, VA ECMO trials are shorter in duration than VV ECMO trials because of the higher risk of thrombus formation. A common consequence in ECMO-treated adults is neurological injury, which may include intracerebral hemorrhage, subarachnoid hemorrhage, ischemic infarctions in susceptible areas of the brain, hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy, unexplained coma, and brain death. Bleeding occurs in 30 to 40 percent of those receiving ECMO and can be life-threatening. It is due to both
COVID-19 doctors are reporting inexplicable blood-clotting and hematological complications in otherwise young and healthy patients. [SEP] Cerebral venous sinus thrombosis // pulmonary embolism. An analysis of earlier case reports concludes that this occurs in about 10% of cases, but has a very poor prognosis. Various studies have investigated the use of anticoagulation to suppress blood clot formation in cerebral venous sinus thrombosis. Before these trials had been conducted, there had been a concern that small areas of hemorrhage in the brain would bleed further as a result of treatment; the studies showed that this concern was unfounded. Clinical practice guidelines now recommend heparin or low molecular weight heparin in the initial treatment, followed by warfarin, provided there are no other bleeding
COVID-19 doctors are reporting inexplicable blood-clotting and hematological complications in otherwise young and healthy patients. [SEP] Dysfibrinogenemia // symptoms. Bleeding episodes in most cases of this disorder are mild and commonly involve easy bruising and menorrhagia. Less common manifestations of bleeding may be severe or even life-threatening; these include excessive bleeding after tooth extraction, surgery, vaginal birth, and miscarriage. Rarely, these individuals may suffer hemarthrosis or cerebral hemorrhage. In one study of 37 individuals >50 years old afflicted with this disorder, 19% had a history of thrombosis. Thrombotic complications occur in both arteries and veins and include transient ischemic attack, ischemic stroke, myocardial infarction, retinal artery thrombosis, peripheral artery thrombosis, and deep vein thrombosis. In one series of
COVID-19 doctors are reporting inexplicable blood-clotting and hematological complications in otherwise young and healthy patients. [SEP] Hypoprothrombinemia // bleeding - no diagnosis was confirmed. Complete blood count and blood smear was determined as normal. No abnormality in fibrinogen, liver function test, and bleeding time. However, prothrombin levels were less than 1% so patient was transfused with fresh frozen plasma (FFP). Post transfusion methods, patient is now 28 months old and living healthy life. The only treatment that is needed to date is for the painful bruises, which the patient is given FFP every 5–6 weeks. Twelve day old boy admitted for symptoms consisting of blood stained vomiting and dark colored stool. Upon admission into hospital, patient received vitamin
COVID-19 doctors are reporting inexplicable blood-clotting and hematological complications in otherwise young and healthy patients. [SEP] Disseminated intravascular coagulation // acute (rapid onset) and chronic (slow onset). Diagnosis is typically based on blood tests. Findings may include low platelets, low fibrinogen, high INR, or high D-dimer. Treatment is mainly directed towards the underlying condition. Other measures may include giving platelets, cryoprecipitate, or fresh frozen plasma. Evidence to support these treatments, however, is poor. Heparin may be useful in the chronic form. About 1% of people admitted to hospital are affected by the condition. In those with sepsis rates are between 20% and 50%. The risk of death among those affected varies from 20 to 50%. In DIC, the underlying cause
COVID-19 doctors are reporting inexplicable blood-clotting and hematological complications in otherwise young and healthy patients. [SEP] Erik Adolf von Willebrand // of 1876 to 1922, totalling 19 cases on families with bleeding diatheses. The earlier authors attributed the condition to hemophilia (even in the cases of females) or to thrombopathy, which was discovered shortly before as the cause of what had previously been known as purpura hemorrhagica or Werlhof's disease. Von Willebrand also conducted hematological examinations on Hjördis and some of her family members. He recorded a normal or slightly reduced number of platelets and an undisturbed clot retraction, unlike Glanzmann's thrombasthenia. The bleeding time (Duke) was greatly prolonged, extending to more than 2 hours in some cases, while the clotting
COVID-19 doctors are reporting inexplicable blood-clotting and hematological complications in otherwise young and healthy patients. [SEP] Xenotransplantation // higher degree of coagulopathy, or impaired clotting, than cardiac transplants, whereas liver xenografts result in severe thrombocytopenia, causing recipient death within a few days due to bleeding. An alternate clotting disorder, thrombosis, may be initiated by preexisting antibodies that affect the protein C anticoagulant system. Due to this effect, porcine donors must be extensively screened before transplantation. Studies have also shown that some porcine transplant cells are able to induce human tissue factor expression, thus stimulating platelet and monocyte aggregation around the xenotransplanted organ, causing severe clotting. Additionally, spontaneous platelet accumulation may be caused by contact with pig von Willebrand
COVID-19 doctors are reporting inexplicable blood-clotting and hematological complications in otherwise young and healthy patients. [SEP] Eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis // become more widespread and are compounded by new symptoms from the vasculitis. Severe complications may arise. Blood clots may develop within the damaged arteries in severe cases, particularly in arteries of the abdominal region, which is followed by infarction and cell death, or slow atrophy. Many patients experience severe abdominal complaints; these are most often due to peritonitis and/or ulcerations and perforations of the gastrointestinal tract, but occasionally due to acalculous cholecystitis or granulomatous appendicitis. The most serious complication of the vasculitic stage is heart disease, which is the cause of nearly one-half of all deaths in patients with EGPA.
COVID-19 doctors are reporting inexplicable blood-clotting and hematological complications in otherwise young and healthy patients. [SEP] Hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia // transplantion is to be offered is not yet completely established. Embolization treatment has been attempted, but leads to severe complications in a proportion of patients and is discouraged. Other liver-related complications (portal hypertension, esophageal varices, ascites, hepatic encephalopathy) are treated with the same modalities as used in cirrhosis, although the use of transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt treatment is discouraged due to the lack of documented benefit. The decision to treat brain arteriovenous malformations depends on the symptoms that they cause (such as seizures or headaches). The bleeding risk is predicted by previous episodes of hemorrhage, and whether on the CTA
COVID-19 doctors are reporting inexplicable blood-clotting and hematological complications in otherwise young and healthy patients. [SEP] Coagulopathy // life-threatening. People should seek immediate medical care for serious symptoms, including heavy external bleeding, blood in the urine or stool, double vision, severe head or neck pain, repeated vomiting, difficulty walking, convulsions, or seizures. They should seek prompt medical care if they experience mild but unstoppable external bleeding or joint swelling and stiffness. The normal clotting process depends on the interplay of various proteins in the blood. Coagulopathy may be caused by reduced levels or absence of blood-clotting proteins, known as clotting factors or coagulation factors. Genetic disorders, such as hemophilia and Von Willebrand's disease, can cause a reduction in
County board votes to evict Planned Parenthood health clinic. [SEP] David Campos // efforts for two years. Since it opened in 2011, the San Francisco Planned Parenthood sought to prevent protests by anti-abortion activists. According to proponents of the ordinance, protesters were obscuring access to the clinics with large signs, and taking pictures and video of anyone entering the clinic. At that time abortions accounted for less than 2 percent of patient visits. In May 2013, the San Francisco Board of Supervisors unanimously passed Campos’s Health Care Access Buffer Zone legislation. The legislation created a 25-foot harassment free buffer zone around all free-standing health clinics in the city. The penalty for encroaching the
County board votes to evict Planned Parenthood health clinic. [SEP] Rosalie Abrams // first pro-choice feminist women's health clinic in Orange County, in 1973. The couple, along with other members of NOW and regional churches, were active in fighting against violence towards pro-choice women's clinics. Abrams described their role as defending clinics "from being burned and destroyed, by staying overnight, sleeping in our cars, and securing the doors with our bodies." Abrams, along with five other women, picketed the Orange County Medical Center, demanding women's rights for abortions, after 47 women were denied abortions at the hospital due to a moratorium being placed on the procedure. The moratorium was started after protests by
County board votes to evict Planned Parenthood health clinic. [SEP] Lenawee County Board of Health v. Messerly // precedent of "Sherwood v. Walker" in favor of the Restatement (Second) of Contracts, and relied on an "as is" clause in the land contract to deny recission. Lenawee County Board of Health v. Messerly Lenawee County Board of Health v. Messerly, 331 N.W.2d 203 (1982) is a US contract law case decided by the Supreme Court of Michigan. It used a risk of loss analysis to justify the denial of recission as a contract remedy despite the presence of mutual mistake. The Pickles bought a three unit dwelling for use as a rental property from the Messerly's, only to discover
County board votes to evict Planned Parenthood health clinic. [SEP] Mike Pence // Superfund site a state emergency; his successor Governor Eric Holcomb has issued Executive Order 17-13, declaring a disaster emergency in East Chicago. The site of several former lead smelting plants was first identified as a health concern by the EPA in 1997. Beginning in December 2014, there was an HIV outbreak in Southern Indiana. In 2011, Planned Parenthood ran five rural clinics in Indiana. They tested for HIV and offered prevention, intervention and counseling for better health. The one in Scott County performed no abortions. The Republican-controlled legislature and Pence defunded Planned Parenthood. Scott County has been without an HIV
County board votes to evict Planned Parenthood health clinic. [SEP] Ronda Storms // outreach program funded by Planned Parenthood, which teaches adolescents about safe sex, drugs, gangs, and family violence. The refusal for funding was passed by the board by a vote of 5-2. By doing so, the Commission cut off any aid to Planned Parenthood, as the county does not fund any other Planned Parenthood initiatives. After Barbara Zdravecky, who oversees Planned Parenthood for 15 counties throughout central Florida, asked Storms to reconsider her proposal on July 21, 2005, Storms said she told Zdravecky, "I am pro-life and you're not...There is nothing you can say or do for me to support you.
County board votes to evict Planned Parenthood health clinic. [SEP] Lenawee County Board of Health v. Messerly // Lenawee County Board of Health v. Messerly Lenawee County Board of Health v. Messerly, 331 N.W.2d 203 (1982) is a US contract law case decided by the Supreme Court of Michigan. It used a risk of loss analysis to justify the denial of recission as a contract remedy despite the presence of mutual mistake. The Pickles bought a three unit dwelling for use as a rental property from the Messerly's, only to discover that an illegal septic system had contaminated the ground. Pickles sought recission and Messerly sought a deficiency judgment. The Supreme Court of Michigan backed away from the
County board votes to evict Planned Parenthood health clinic. [SEP] Center for Medical Progress // A grand jury in Harris County, Texas took no action against Planned Parenthood, but instead indicted Daleiden and a second CMP employee on felony charges of tampering with governmental records and attempting to purchase human organs. The charges were dropped six months later, but in March 2017 Daleiden and the second CMP employee were charged with 15 felonies in California—one for each of the people whom they had filmed without consent, and one for criminal conspiracy to invade privacy. The videos led conservative politicians to request a criminal investigation of Planned Parenthood for selling fetal tissue, and in December 2017
County board votes to evict Planned Parenthood health clinic. [SEP] Richard Madaleno // for Planned Parenthood clinics in Maryland would continue. Madaleno co-sponsored a bill to allow counties to enact public financing for county elections. Madaleno co-sponsored a bill to increase the number of early-voting centers, and he fought attempts by Republicans to close early voting centers in populous areas of Montgomery County. Madaleno has led efforts to improve public education and worked for equitable distribution of funding to public schools throughout Maryland. Madaleno authored the Hunger-Free Schools Act of 2017; as a result, qualified students across Maryland now receive free breakfast and lunch. Madaleno co-sponsored legislation expanding eligibility for tax credits for
County board votes to evict Planned Parenthood health clinic. [SEP] American Family Planning // pipe bomb destroyed the building on June 25 of that year, and four youths—Matt Goldsby, Jimmy Simmons, Kathy Simmons, and Kaye Wiggins—bombed it on Christmas Day, calling the crime "a gift to Jesus on his birthday." These bombers stated that they were also behind the June bombing. On January 1, 2012, Bobby Joe Rogers firebombed the clinic with a Molotov cocktail; the fire gutted the building. Rogers told investigators that he was motivated to commit the crime by his opposition to abortion, and that what more directly prompted the act was seeing a patient enter the clinic during one of
County board votes to evict Planned Parenthood health clinic. [SEP] Denis E. Dillon // the Bill Baird Center, a Hempstead abortion clinic. Dillon's actions led to his candidacy being disavowed by the Liberal Party and its Nassau County Chair, Jack Olchin, and to the decision of Bill Baird, the clinic's namesake and a well known reproductive rights activist, to mount a write-in campaign against Dillon. Dillon publicly welcomed Baird's challenge, but used his lack of a law license to criticize his supporters, saying "it will be interesting to see how many pro-choice people will vote for a non-lawyer for D.A." Baird's challenge, as well as an appeal from the Nassau chapter of the National
Newly Identified Form of Vertigo Responds to Treatment [SEP] Benign paroxysmal positional vertigo // underlying mechanism involves a small calcified otolith moving around loose in the inner ear. It is a type of balance disorder along with labyrinthitis and Ménière's disease. Diagnosis is typically made when the Dix–Hallpike test results in nystagmus (a specific movement pattern of the eyes) and other possible causes have been ruled out. In typical cases, medical imaging is not needed. BPPV is often treated with a number of simple movements such as the Epley maneuver or Brandt–Daroff exercises. Medications may be used to help with nausea. There is tentative evidence that betahistine may help with vertigo but its use
Newly Identified Form of Vertigo Responds to Treatment [SEP] Benign paroxysmal positional vertigo // variations are used, and involve rolling the patient 360 degrees in a series of steps to reposition the particles. This maneuver is generally performed by a trained clinician who begins seated at the head of the examination table with the patient supine There are four stages, each a minute apart, and at the third position the horizontal canal is oriented in a vertical position with the patient's neck flexed and on forearm and elbows. When all four stages are completed, the head roll test is repeated, and if negative, treatment ceases. Medical treatment with anti-vertigo medications may be considered in
Newly Identified Form of Vertigo Responds to Treatment [SEP] Vestibular rehabilitation // For example, phobic postural vertigo (PPV) occurs when an individual with obsessive-compulsive characteristics experiences a sense of imbalance, despite the absence of balance issues. Chronic subjective dizziness (CSD) is a similar condition characterized by persistent vertigo, hypersensitivity to motion stimuli, and difficult with precise visual tasks. Both phobic postural vertigo and chronic subjective dizziness may be treated with vestibular rehabilitation therapy or other therapeutic methods such as cognitive behavioral therapy and conditioning. Vestibular rehabilitation is specific to the dysfunction that a patient experiences. Some treatment methods seek to eliminate the cause of vestibular dysfunction, while others allow the brain to
Newly Identified Form of Vertigo Responds to Treatment [SEP] Benign paroxysmal positional vertigo // the ampulla) with the direction of gravity. This test will reproduce vertigo and nystagmus characteristic of posterior canal BPPV. When performing the Dix–Hallpike test, patients are lowered quickly to a supine position, with the neck extended by the clinician performing the maneuver. For some patients, this maneuver may not be indicated, and a modification may be needed that also targets the posterior semicircular canal. Such patients include those who are too anxious about eliciting the uncomfortable symptoms of vertigo and those who may not have the range of motion necessary to comfortably be in a supine position. The modification involves
Newly Identified Form of Vertigo Responds to Treatment [SEP] Benign paroxysmal positional vertigo // acute, severe exacerbation of BPPV, but in most cases are not indicated. These primarily include drugs of the anti-histamine and anti-cholinergic class, such as meclizine and hyoscine butylbromide (scopolamine), respectively. The medical management of vestibular syndromes has become increasingly popular over the last decade, and numerous novel drug therapies (including existing drugs with new indications) have emerged for the treatment of vertigo/dizziness syndromes. These drugs vary considerably in their mechanisms of action, with many of them being receptor- or ion channel-specific. Among them are betahistine or dexamethasone/gentamicin for the treatment of Ménière's disease, carbamazepine/oxcarbazepine for the treatment of paroxysmal dysarthria
Newly Identified Form of Vertigo Responds to Treatment [SEP] Vertigo // histamine, serotonin, and acetylcholine are neurotransmitters thought to produce vomiting. It is known that centrally acting antihistamines modulate the symptoms of acute symptomatic vertigo. Tests for vertigo often attempt to elicit nystagmus and to differentiate vertigo from other causes of dizziness such as presyncope, hyperventilation syndrome, disequilibrium, or psychiatric causes of lightheadedness. Tests of vestibular system (balance) function include electronystagmography (ENG), Dix-Hallpike maneuver, rotation tests, head-thrust test, caloric reflex test, and computerized dynamic posturography (CDP). The HINTS test, which is a combination of three physical exam tests that may be performed by physicians at the bedside has been deemed helpful
Newly Identified Form of Vertigo Responds to Treatment [SEP] Hitachi Magic Wand // each leg. In a 2011 article for the "International Journal of Otolaryngology", Jeremy Hornibrook discussed the inner ear disorder Benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (BPPV). BPPV is the most common cause of vertigo, a problem attributed to a detached otoconia in one of the semicircular canals. Hornibrook recommended a repositioning treatment for patients with BPPV from the posterior canal location. He wrote that the procedure most often performed for this purpose was a slightly transformed version of the Epley maneuver, and afterwards recommended carrying out a Dix–Hallpike test to assess the status of BPPV. If such a test was positive, Hornibrook
Newly Identified Form of Vertigo Responds to Treatment [SEP] Vertigo // vascular risk factors. Presentation may more often involve headache or neck pain, additionally, those who have had multiple episodes of dizziness in the months leading up to presentation are suggestive of stroke with prodromal TIAs. The HINTS exam as well as imaging studies of the brain (CT, CT angiogram, and/or MRI) are helpful in diagnosis of posterior fossa stroke. Definitive treatment depends on the underlying cause of vertigo. Ménière's disease patients have a variety of treatment options to consider when receiving treatment for vertigo and tinnitus including: a low-salt diet and intratympanic injections of the antibiotic gentamicin or surgical measures
Newly Identified Form of Vertigo Responds to Treatment [SEP] Benign paroxysmal positional vertigo // other types of nystagmus. Although rare, CNS disorders can sometimes present as BPPV. A practitioner should be aware that if a patient whose symptoms are consistent with BPPV, but does not show improvement or resolution after undergoing different particle repositioning maneuvers — detailed in the Treatment section below — need to have a detailed neurological assessment and imaging performed to help identify the pathological condition. Vertigo, a distinct process sometimes confused with the broader term, dizziness, accounts for about six million clinic visits in the United States every year; between 17 and 42% of these patients are eventually diagnosed with
Newly Identified Form of Vertigo Responds to Treatment [SEP] Vertigo // in differentiating between central and peripheral causes of vertigo. The HINTS test involves the horizontal head impulse test, observation of nystagmus on primary gaze, and the test of skew. CT scans or MRIs are sometimes used by physicians when diagnosing vertigo. Tests of auditory system (hearing) function include pure tone audiometry, speech audiometry, acoustic reflex, electrocochleography (ECoG), otoacoustic emissions (OAE), and the auditory brainstem response test. A number of specific conditions can cause vertigo. In the elderly, however, the condition is often multifactorial. A recent history of underwater diving can indicate a possibility of barotrauma or decompression sickness involvement but
Health experts back treatment for kids with peanut allergy. [SEP] Peanut allergy // and laboratory testing such as the skin prick test. Peanut allergy may be preventable by feeding babies who are at high risk foods that contain peanuts when they are as young as four to six months of age. As of 2018, there is no cure for peanut allergy other than strict avoidance of peanuts and peanut-containing foods. Extra care is needed for food consumed at or purchased from restaurants. Total avoidance is complicated because the declaration of the presence of trace amounts of allergens in foods is not mandatory (see regulation of labelling). Peanut allergies tend to resolve in childhood
Health experts back treatment for kids with peanut allergy. [SEP] Peanut allergy // and babies. The principal treatment for anaphylaxis is epinephrine as an injection. In the United States, peanut allergy is present in 0.6% of the population. It is a common cause of food-related fatal and near-fatal allergic reactions. The declaration of the presence of trace amounts of allergens in foods is not mandatory in any country, with the exception of Brazil. Symptoms of peanut allergy are related to the action of Immunoglobulin E (IgE) and other anaphylatoxins which act to release histamine and other mediator substances from mast cells (degranulation). In addition to other effects, histamine induces vasodilation of arterioles and
Health experts back treatment for kids with peanut allergy. [SEP] Peanut allergy // people outside of carefully conducted trials. In those with mild peanut allergies, gradually eating more and more peanuts resulted in at least some short-term benefits. As of 2012, the evidence did not show that this was safe or effective. Sublingual immunotherapy involves putting gradually increasing doses of an allergy extract under a person's tongue. The extract is then either spat or swallowed. As of 2014, the evidence did not show that this was safe or effective. Epicutaneous immunotherapy involves giving the allergen through a patch and has also been researched. Peanut allergy Peanut allergy is a type of food allergy
Health experts back treatment for kids with peanut allergy. [SEP] Food allergy // a member of the bean family. Peanut allergies may be severe, but children with peanut allergies sometimes outgrow them. Tree nuts, including cashews, Brazil nuts, hazelnuts, macadamia nuts, pecans, pistachios, pine nuts, coconuts, and walnuts, are also common allergens. Sufferers may be sensitive to one particular tree nut or to many different ones. Also, seeds, including sesame seeds and poppy seeds, contain oils where protein is present, which may elicit an allergic reaction. Egg allergies affect about one in 50 children but are frequently outgrown by children when they reach age five. Typically, the sensitivity is to proteins in the
Health experts back treatment for kids with peanut allergy. [SEP] Peanut allergy // less often than allergies to soy, milk, egg, and wheat. Accordingly, re-evaluation of peanut allergy is recommended on a yearly basis for young children with favorable previous test results, and every few years or longer for older children and adults. The percentage of people with peanut allergies is 0.6% in the United States. In a 2008 study, self-reported incidence of peanut allergy was estimated to affect 1.4% of the population of the United States, triple the 0.4-0.6% rate found in a 1997 study. In England, an estimated 4,000 people are newly diagnosed with peanut allergy every year; 25,700 having been
Health experts back treatment for kids with peanut allergy. [SEP] Peanut allergy // Practices and allergen control measures adopted are not sufficient to prevent the presence of accidental trace amounts. These allergens include wheat, rye, barley, oats and their hybrids, crustaceans, eggs, fish, peanuts, soybean, milk of all species of mammalians, almonds, hazelnuts, cashew nuts, Brazil nuts, macadamia nuts, walnuts, pecan nuts, pistaches, pine nuts, and chestnuts. Immunotherapy involves attempts to reduce or eliminate allergic sensitivity by repeated exposure. This active research concept involves swallowing small amounts of peanuts, holding a peanut product under the tongue - sublingual immunotherapy - skin patches or injections. None of these are considered ready for use in
Health experts back treatment for kids with peanut allergy. [SEP] Peanut allergy // early in life, increasing immune capability, whereas food selection by children in developed countries is more limited, reducing immune capability. A possibility of cross-reaction to soy was dismissed by an analysis finding no linkage to consumption of soy protein, and indicated that appearance of any linkage is likely due to preference to using soy milk among families with known milk allergies. When infants consume peanut proteins while 4 to 11 months old, the risk of developing peanut allergy before the age of 5 years decreases by 11-25%, specifically in children with higher allergy risk via their parents with peanut allergy.
Health experts back treatment for kids with peanut allergy. [SEP] Peanut allergy // taken in response to the threat may be an over-reaction out of proportion to the level of danger. Media sensationalism has been blamed for anxiety outweighing reality. Frequency among adults and children is similar—around 1%—but one study showed self-reports of peanut allergy are on the rise in children in the United States. The number of young children self-reporting the allergy doubled between 1997 and 2002. Studies have found that self-reported rates of food allergies is higher than clinically-observed rates of food allergies. The rates in self-reported incidence of the allergy, previously thought to be rare, may not be correlated with
Health experts back treatment for kids with peanut allergy. [SEP] Peanut // use of skin preparations containing peanut oil among children, but the evidence is not regarded as conclusive. Peanut allergies have also been associated with family history and intake of soy products. Some school districts in the United States and elsewhere have banned peanuts. However, the efficacy of the bans in reducing allergic reactions is uncertain. A recent study in Canada has shown that there is no difference in the percentage of accidental exposures occurring in schools prohibiting peanuts than in schools allowing them. Refined peanut oil will not cause allergic reactions in most people with peanut allergies. However, crude (unrefined)
Health experts back treatment for kids with peanut allergy. [SEP] Peanut allergy // system towards a Th2 type response. Peanut proteins that undergo non-enzymatic changes through Maillard reactions when cooked or exposed to room temperature have an increase in AGE modifications on their structure. These changes have been shown to stimulate RAGE receptors and SR-AI/II on dendritic cells and thus lead to an increase in IL-4 and IL-5-releasing Th2 cells. Peanut allergies are uncommon in children of undeveloped countries where peanut products have been used to relieve malnutrition. The hygiene hypothesis proposes that the relatively low incidence of childhood peanut allergies in undeveloped countries is a result of exposure to diverse food sources
Hillary Clinton Says Bernie Sanders "voted for regime change with respect to Libya. [SEP] Political positions of Hillary Clinton // countries and across the Mediterranean. When asked to defend her record on Libya, Clinton called it "a classic case of a hard choice" and found that the overthrow of Gaddafi represented "smart power at its best." When told of news reports of Qaddafi's death by an aide in between formal interviews, Clinton laughed and replied with "We came, we saw, he died". Clinton has said that history's judgment on the intervention, and her role in it, are not yet final. In November 2015, she said to the Council on Foreign Relations that "the Libyan people have voted twice in free
Hillary Clinton Says Bernie Sanders "voted for regime change with respect to Libya. [SEP] Hillary Clinton // supported the NATO bombing of Yugoslavia in 1999 and the NATO-led military intervention in Libya to oust former Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi in 2011. Clinton is in favor of maintaining American influence in the Middle East. She has told the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, "America can't ever be neutral when it comes to Israel's security and survival." Clinton expressed support for Israel's right to defend itself during the 2006 Lebanon War and 2014 Israel–Gaza conflict. In April 2017, Clinton called for strikes against Syrian airfields. In 2000, Clinton advocated for the elimination of the electoral college. She promised to
Hillary Clinton Says Bernie Sanders "voted for regime change with respect to Libya. [SEP] Hillary Clinton's tenure as Secretary of State // began in mid-February and intensified into armed conflict with rebel successes in early March 2011, Clinton stated the administration's position that Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi "must go now, without further violence or delay". As Gaddafi conducted counterattacks against the rebels, Clinton was initially reluctant, as was Obama, to back calls being made in various quarters for imposition of a Libyan no-fly zone. However, as the prospects of a Gaddafi victory and possible subsequent bloodbath that would kill many thousands emerged, and as Clinton travelled Europe and North Africa and found support for military intervention increasing among European and Arab leaders,
Hillary Clinton Says Bernie Sanders "voted for regime change with respect to Libya. [SEP] Bernie Sanders // has handled the crisis. In September 2017, Sanders said that Saudi Arabia is "an undemocratic country that has supported terrorism around the world, it has funded terrorism. ... They are not an ally of the United States." In an October 2018 column for "The New York Times", Sanders called on the United States to end its backing of the Saudi Arabian-led intervention in Yemen, saying that US support for this war makes it complicit in crimes against humanity and is unconstitutional because its participation has not been authorized by Congress. Sanders supports banning assault weapons, universal federal background checks, and
Hillary Clinton Says Bernie Sanders "voted for regime change with respect to Libya. [SEP] Hillary Clinton // with Ambassador to the UN Susan Rice and National Security Council figure Samantha Power and was a key turning point in overcoming internal administration opposition from Defense Secretary Gates, security advisor Thomas E. Donilon and counterterrorism advisor John Brennan in gaining the backing for and Arab and U.N. approval of, the 2011 military intervention in Libya. Secretary Clinton testified to Congress that the administration did not need congressional authorization for its military intervention in Libya, despite objections from some members of both parties that the administration was violating the War Powers Resolution and the State Department's legal advisor argued the
Hillary Clinton Says Bernie Sanders "voted for regime change with respect to Libya. [SEP] Bernie Sanders 2016 presidential campaign // to "deflect attention from the real issues" facing voters, he proposed a constitutional amendment to undo the ruling. "We now have a political situation where billionaires are... able to buy elections and candidates", he said. Sanders supported Israel's right to exist and supported a two-state solution. In July 2014, Sanders formed part of the "unanimous consent" on the Senate Resolution in support of Operation Protective Edge, a military operation Israel launched on July 8, 2014. Sanders said that Israel must have a right to live in peace and security. He compared himself to the first Israeli Prime Minister, David Ben-Gurion.
Hillary Clinton Says Bernie Sanders "voted for regime change with respect to Libya. [SEP] Bernie Sanders // been cited as the legal justification for controversial military actions since the September 11 attacks. Sanders voted for a non-binding resolution expressing support for troops at the outset of the invasion of Iraq, but gave a floor speech criticizing the partisan nature of the vote and the George W. Bush administration's actions in the run-up to the war. Regarding the investigation of what turned out to be a leak of CIA agent Valerie Plame's identity by a State Department official, Sanders stated: "The revelation that the President authorized the release of classified information in order to discredit an Iraq war
Hillary Clinton Says Bernie Sanders "voted for regime change with respect to Libya. [SEP] Bernie Sanders 2016 presidential campaign // could establish in terms of international law and the role of the United Nations." Sanders called the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS) "a barbaric organization" and "a growing threat", but did not believe that the U.S. should lead the fight against it, saying, "the United States should be supportive, along with other countries, but we cannot and we should not be involved in perpetual warfare in the Middle East—the Muslim countries themselves must lead the effort". Drawing figures from a OECD report that ranks the U.S. 33rd out of 36 nations in reading literacy, 27th in mathematical literacy,
Hillary Clinton Says Bernie Sanders "voted for regime change with respect to Libya. [SEP] Hillary Clinton // from an early assessment that the government of Hosni Mubarak was "stable", to a stance that there needed to be an "orderly transition [to] a democratic participatory government", to a condemnation of violence against the protesters. Obama came to rely upon Clinton's advice, organization and personal connections in the behind-the-scenes response to developments. As Arab Spring protests spread throughout the region, Clinton was at the forefront of a U.S. response that she recognized was sometimes contradictory, backing some regimes while supporting protesters against others. As the Libyan Civil War took place, Clinton's shift in favor of military intervention aligned her
Hillary Clinton Says Bernie Sanders "voted for regime change with respect to Libya. [SEP] Political positions of Bernie Sanders // had "an administration right now that still considers climate change to be a hoax" and that the issue was not up for debate given climate change's verification by the science community. In an April 7, 2017 statement, Sanders expressed disapproval of Trump's ordered airstrike on Syria from the previous day: "If there's anything we should've learned from the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, in which the lives of thousands of brave American men and women and hundreds of thousands of Iraqi and Afghan civilians have been lost and trillions of dollars spent, it's that it's easier to get into a
The actor Nora Kirkpatrick "played" a victim as part of a fake terrorist bomb attack at Parsons Green in London. [SEP] Nora Kirkpatrick // with a degree in Theatre, Film, and Television. After graduating, Kirkpatrick went to Africa to volunteer and teach in Nakuru, Kenya. Nora Kirkpatrick Nora Kirkpatrick (born December 6, 1984) is an American actress, writer and musician. She is probably best known for her role as Katherine, the stern president of Panhellenic, on the ABC Family TV series "Greek", or for her recurring role on the ninth season of "The Office" as Esther Bruegger, a neighboring farmer's daughter who becomes Dwight's girlfriend. Kirkpatrick starred in the 2015 film "Pink Grapefruit", which won the SXSW Grand Jury Award. She has played many
The actor Nora Kirkpatrick "played" a victim as part of a fake terrorist bomb attack at Parsons Green in London. [SEP] Nora Kirkpatrick // Nora Kirkpatrick Nora Kirkpatrick (born December 6, 1984) is an American actress, writer and musician. She is probably best known for her role as Katherine, the stern president of Panhellenic, on the ABC Family TV series "Greek", or for her recurring role on the ninth season of "The Office" as Esther Bruegger, a neighboring farmer's daughter who becomes Dwight's girlfriend. Kirkpatrick starred in the 2015 film "Pink Grapefruit", which won the SXSW Grand Jury Award. She has played many other roles in film and TV, including "Men at Work", "Jennifer Falls", "Don't Trust the B", and "Chasing Life". She was
The actor Nora Kirkpatrick "played" a victim as part of a fake terrorist bomb attack at Parsons Green in London. [SEP] Nora Kirkpatrick // one of the leads of the popular mockumentary web series "Dorm Life", in which she played Courtney Cloverlock. in 2016, Kirkpatrick created a TV show for Comedy Central entitled "Best-Seller", which she wrote with "Saturday Night Live" alum Dennis McNicholas. The show was produced by Olivia Wilde, Jessica Elbaum, Will Ferrell, and Adam McKay from Gloria Sanchez Productions. In 2017, Kirkpatrick created, wrote and directed "Virtually Mike and Nora", the first virtual reality comedy series for Hulu, with collaborator Mike O'Brien. The first two episodes of the series played at the 2017 Sundance Film Festival. In a 2017 "Forbes" article,
The actor Nora Kirkpatrick "played" a victim as part of a fake terrorist bomb attack at Parsons Green in London. [SEP] Nora Kirkpatrick // Kirkpatrick mentions virtual reality's ability to cause "spatial un-comfortability," and her aim to make the viewer the lead character of the story. Kirkpatrick studies and performs at the Upright Citizens Brigade theater in Los Angeles. She is also a founding member and accordion player for the band Edward Sharpe and the Magnetic Zeros, with whom she won a Grammy in 2013. In 2017, Kirkpatrick appeared in Adam Sandler's film "Sandy Wexler" and in Paul Lieberstein's debut feature "Song of Back and Neck". Kirkpatrick was born in Peru, Illinois, and attended high school in La Quinta, California. She graduated from UCLA
The actor Nora Kirkpatrick "played" a victim as part of a fake terrorist bomb attack at Parsons Green in London. [SEP] Catherine McCormack // quickly. Then everyone comes in and shoots it." McCormack was one of the original 2006 London cast of Patrick Barlow's play of "The 39 Steps". In 2008, she performed the role of Nora in "A Doll's House", directed by Peter Hall at the Theatre Royal, Bath, and also the role of Isabel Archer in a stage adaptation of "The Portrait of a Lady", both of which commenced their runs in July 2008, ending in August, before transferring to the Rose Theatre in Kingston later that year. In 2009, she appeared in the British tour of Headlong's adaptation of "Six Characters
The actor Nora Kirkpatrick "played" a victim as part of a fake terrorist bomb attack at Parsons Green in London. [SEP] Liza Pulman // London Underground train which was bombed in the 7 July 2005 London bombings; her mobile phone footage of the experience was broadcast on international television and her article published in the G2 section of "The Guardian". Pulman appeared in "The Gondoliers" and "The Coffee House" at the Chichester Festival Theatre. Her previous acting credits include her portrayal of Violet in the London Palladium's production of "Chitty Chitty Bang Bang", and she starred opposite Phillip Schofield and Russ Abbot in the British national tour of "Doctor Dolittle". She has also played Cathy in "Wuthering Heights" (European tour), Eurydice in the world
The actor Nora Kirkpatrick "played" a victim as part of a fake terrorist bomb attack at Parsons Green in London. [SEP] Lord Baltimore (The Blacklist) // victim of Lord Baltimore. Further investigation into Mills reveals that she is actually Rowan's twin sister, Nora Mills, a covert operative who suffers from an engineered dissociative identity disorder, and is also revealed to be the actual Lord Baltimore. Red learns during his brief captivity by a Mossad agent, Samar Navabi (Mozhan Marnò), that Baltimore's intended target is his ex-wife, Naomi Hyland (special guest star Mary-Louise Parker). Liz attempts to evacuate Naomi, but her team is ambushed by a kidnapping group led by Mills. While Liz successfully captures Mills, Red attempts to rescue Naomi at a designated apartment only to
The actor Nora Kirkpatrick "played" a victim as part of a fake terrorist bomb attack at Parsons Green in London. [SEP] Angie Bolen // she was enrolled as an engineering major, and joined a band of eco-terrorists, led by Patrick Logan (John Barrowman), with whom she became romantically involved. Patrick asked her to build a bomb that would be used against a corporate company. On November 10, 1991, the eco-terrorist group bombed a building that was supposedly empty; however, they unintentionally killed a man named Shawn. Angela sustained a large scar on her back as a result of the explosion. Consumed with guilt over having killed an innocent man, Angela agreed to run away with a private investigator (Jeffrey Nordling) who had been pursuing
The actor Nora Kirkpatrick "played" a victim as part of a fake terrorist bomb attack at Parsons Green in London. [SEP] Ayesha Dharker // begun playing Nina Karnik in a returning role on long running BBC drama Holby City. Ayesha Dharker Ayesha Dharker (born 16 March 1977) is a British-Indian actress. She is known for her performance in the Tamil film "The Terrorist" (1997), for which she was awarded Best Artistic Contribution by an Actress at the Cairo International Film Festival and nominated for a National Film Award for Best Actress. She has also appeared in Hollywood films such as "", "Outsourced" and "The Mistress of Spices", television series such as "Arabian Nights", the West End and Broadway musical "Bombay Dreams". Ayesha Dharker was
The actor Nora Kirkpatrick "played" a victim as part of a fake terrorist bomb attack at Parsons Green in London. [SEP] Parsons Green train bombing // elderly couple who were never told of his extremist links. In a statement after the incident, the Prime Minister, Theresa May, said: "My thoughts are with those injured at Parsons Green and the emergency services who, once again, are responding swiftly and bravely to a suspected terrorist incident". Mayor of London Sadiq Khan said: "As London has proven again and again, we will never be intimidated or defeated by terrorism. I am in close contact with the Metropolitan Police, Transport for London (TfL), Government and other emergency services who are responding at the scene and leading the investigation. I will
'Do we really want to close schools?' U.S. authorities resist coronavirus closures. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic in the United States by state // of the disease that does not appear life-threatening. Three high schools in Riverside County were closed April 29 after two teenage girls, from Corona and Indio respectively, were confirmed to have contracted the virus. Branham High School in San Jose was closed that day for a week after one teenage girl was confirmed to be a probable case. Rucker Elementary School in Gilroy is set to be closed on Friday, May 1 after at least one student was being tested after exhibiting flu-like symptoms. Three students at the Grizzly Youth Academy in San Luis Obispo are confirmed cases of swine
'Do we really want to close schools?' U.S. authorities resist coronavirus closures. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic in the United States // based on previous CDC guidance related to this outbreak may reopen. By that time at least 726 schools nationwide serving more than 480,000 students had closed for at least some period of time. The CDC amended its advice citing, new information on disease severity and the limiting effectiveness of school closure as a control measure. The new advice given stated, "Decisions about school closure should be at the discretion of local authorities based on local considerations, including public concern and the impact of school absenteeism and staffing shortages." The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) authorized emergency use of medicines and
'Do we really want to close schools?' U.S. authorities resist coronavirus closures. [SEP] Ebola virus cases in the United States // on a previous flight. Another school in the Cleveland Metropolitan School District was disinfected overnight due to similar concerns but remained open. In both cases, affected staff were sent home until cleared by health officials. School officials said that they had been assured by city health officials that there was no risk and that the disinfection was "strictly precautionary". Three schools in the Belton Independent School District in Belton, Texas, were also closed. Infectious disease experts considered these closures to be an overreaction and were concerned that it would frighten the public into believing that Ebola is a greater danger
'Do we really want to close schools?' U.S. authorities resist coronavirus closures. [SEP] Dougherty Valley High School // million yearly. During the 2009 flu pandemic in the United States, one tenth grade student at Dougherty was known to have been infected with the Influenza A/H1N1 virus; however, closure of the school did not occur, as it was found to be unnecessary and inconvenient. According to Principal Hibbard, "We just have to make sure we educate parents", and the school administration reacted to the outbreak by sending out an email to parents with advice from the Center for Disease Control. In the summer of 2011, SunPower began construction and installation of solar panels in the school parking lot. The
'Do we really want to close schools?' U.S. authorities resist coronavirus closures. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic in the United States by state // first confirmed swine flu case April 30, in a child in Plano; the student attended Wilson Middle School in the Plano Independent School District, and the district decided to close the Collin County school until May 11. Navo Middle School and Lee Elementary School, of Denton Independent School District were also closed after three students at both schools respectively were diagnosed with type A influenza. As of May 2, the rest of Denton ISD officially closed for the following week, but as of May 5, all schools are officially reopening on May 7. The Superintendent of Keller Independent School District
'Do we really want to close schools?' U.S. authorities resist coronavirus closures. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic in the United States by state // refused to close despite protests from parents, teachers and students alike. On October 9, 32% of all students were absent out of over 1,600. The school has continued to stay open despite advisement by the Johnson County Health Department even as more and more of the student population falls ill. There are serious concerns of students passing along the virus to the community, creating a large local outbreak. As of October 15 the school is still open. Health officials in Kansas announced April 25 that two new cases of swine flu had been confirmed in Dickinson County, after both were
'Do we really want to close schools?' U.S. authorities resist coronavirus closures. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // said virus. The Evangelista Medical Hospital in San Pedro, Laguna, the facility where the patient was first admitted, was temporarily closed by DOH for fourteen days. On 17 February 2015, all those who had exposure or had contact with the said nurse were tested negative of the said virus. On 6 March 2015, The Department of Foreign Affairs confirmed three Filipino female healthcare workers in Saudi Arabia who were infected with MERS-CoV. On 6 July 2015, DOH confirmed the second detected case of MERS-CoV in the country. The patient who had contracted the virus was from the Middle East and
'Do we really want to close schools?' U.S. authorities resist coronavirus closures. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic in the United States // closed in many states in response to local flu outbreaks. By April 30, 2009, 300 U.S. schools and school districts had announced closures in response to the outbreak, giving 169,000 students time off. On May 4, 2009, about 533 schools in 24 states in the U.S. were closed, affecting about 330,000 students. On September 25, 2009, 42 schools were closed in eight states as the second wave of the pandemic began. On May 5, Kathleen Sebelius stated in a CDC news conference that school closures for single confirmed cases of H1N1 influenza were unnecessary, but that parents keep their child
'Do we really want to close schools?' U.S. authorities resist coronavirus closures. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic in the United States by state // until May 8. The district was the biggest in the nation to close resulting in 80,000 students out of school and 11,000 staff members out of their jobs for that time. During the next week 6 school districts in Dallas-Fort Worth shut down. Including Cleburne, Lewisville, Decatur, Denton, Fort Worth, and Ponder. Other schools in Plano, Dallas, and Richardson were also closed, but did not result in a district wide shut down. Other smaller districts also shut down. Also that day, a probable case caused the closure of Lucy Read Pre-Kindergarten Demonstration School in north Austin. Denton County reported its
'Do we really want to close schools?' U.S. authorities resist coronavirus closures. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic in the United States by state // influenza. As many as 73 students are exhibiting flu-like symptoms at The Academy and are assumed to have the virus. All are being isolated. The Academy is set to stay open. On May 3, 2009, parent of students attending King Middle School in Berkeley were notified that their school would be closed down due to a swine flu outbreak involving students at the school. Days later, other schools were closed down because of students or staff exhibiting flu-like symptoms; for example, Sunnyside Elementary School and Woodville Elementary School, both in Tulare County. On June 1, 2009, the first two deaths
Judge dismisses lawsuit against New Mexico health provider. [SEP] Santa Fe Reporter // which investigated health care in New Mexico prisons, was instrumental in governor Bill Richardson's decision to end New Mexico's contract with Wexford. In 2013, the "Santa Fe Reporter" filed a lawsuit against New Mexico Governor Susana Martinez, alleging violations of the state's Inspection of Public Records Act as well as a violation of the Free Press clause of the New Mexico Constitution. Attorneys for the newspaper and the government argued in court in March of 2017, and Judge Sara Singleton ruled in the case from her retirement in December of that year that the governor had broken the records law,
Judge dismisses lawsuit against New Mexico health provider. [SEP] Michelle Lujan Grisham // suit against her husband's physician, which was dismissed. Michelle Lujan Grisham Michelle Lynn Lujan Grisham (; born October 24, 1959) is an American lawyer and politician serving as the U.S. Representative for New Mexico's 1st congressional district since 2013. A member of the Democratic Party, she is the governor-elect of New Mexico. On November 6, 2018, she became the first Democratic woman elected as governor of New Mexico, as well as the first Democratic Latina elected state chief executive in the history of the United States. Lujan Grisham previously served as Secretary of Health of New Mexico (2004–2007) and Bernalillo
Judge dismisses lawsuit against New Mexico health provider. [SEP] Ted Cruz // judge's jurisdiction expired thirty days after the case was dismissed following an out-of-court settlement, but later won on a second appeal using the same argument. Cruz defended two record-setting $54-million personal injury awards in New Mexico at the appellate level, including one which had been thrown out by a lower court. Cruz represented a mentally disabled man who was allegedly raped by an employee of the facility where he lived. And in the other case Cruz represented the family of a 78-year-old resident of an Albuquerque nursing home who died of internal bleeding. The settlements were sealed in both cases.
Judge dismisses lawsuit against New Mexico health provider. [SEP] Susana Martinez // hotel security referring to the governor as "inebriated." Using a provision of Obamacare requiring the freeze of Medicaid payments to healthcare providers when a credible allegation of fraud exists, the New Mexico Human Services Department suspended payments to 15 behavioral health organizations after Attorney General Gary King accepted the Departments referrals. The subsequent investigations, completed years later by Attorney General Hector Balderas uncovered record keeping discrepancies at each organization, but did not find "an intentional pattern of fraud." Some of the organizations shut down because they were not able to sustain operations without Medicaid funds and were replaced by La
Judge dismisses lawsuit against New Mexico health provider. [SEP] Corizon // million to settle lawsuits brought by the state. Most of the suits, press reports indicate were related to a single doctor who was accused of sexually abusing inmates at the Guadalupe County Correctional Facility in Santa Rosa and the Northeast New Mexico Detention Facility in Clayton. Other payments were for two deaths of inmates. Corizon Corizon Health, Inc., formed by a 2011 merger of Correctional Medical Services, Inc. (CMS) and Prison Health Services, Inc. (PHS), is the "foremost" privately held prison healthcare contractor in the United States. The company provides healthcare and pharmacy services (PharmaCorr) to approximately 98 clients in
Judge dismisses lawsuit against New Mexico health provider. [SEP] Moses H. Cone Memorial Hospital v. Mercury Construction Corp. // the district judge did not expect all the issues to be resolved in state court. Having settled that question, Brennan began a lengthy discussion of the abstention issue. He revisited the "Colorado River" opinion he had written, emphasizing its reliance on "wise judicial administration". Here he clarified that "the decision whether to dismiss a federal action because of parallel state court litigation does not rest on a mechanical checklist, but on a careful balancing of the important factors as they apply in a given case, with the balance heavily weighted in favor of the exercise of jurisdiction." The hospital had
Judge dismisses lawsuit against New Mexico health provider. [SEP] Laura's Law // suffered from abusing this right — so much so that reform laws in the 1970s and 1980s took the profession's right away from them to confine people against their will. Such forced treatment now requires a judge's signature. But over time, that judicial oversight — which is supposed to be the check in our checks-and-balance system — has largely become a rubber stamp to whatever the doctor thinks is best. The patient's voice once again threatens to become silenced, now under the guise of "assisted outpatient treatment" (just a modern, different term for forced treatment)." The New Mexico Court of
Judge dismisses lawsuit against New Mexico health provider. [SEP] Camran Nezhat // July 21, 1998, after not being able to find a medical expert to corroborate her claims. The judge ruled that the claims were baseless and/or frivolous and dismissed Manov's entire case. The judge imposed a fine against Manov's attorney for filing a frivolous lawsuit. Another former patient, Mary (Stacey) Mullen, and her attorney, Jim Neal, claimed that Nezhat's surgery caused her permanent damage to her bowel. Mullen and Neal (and later Mullen's new attorney, Byrne) also accused Nezhat of battery and of being involved in RICO offenses (Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations). The judge found these and several other claims
Judge dismisses lawsuit against New Mexico health provider. [SEP] Susana Martinez // subject to flooding, and Martinez asked the Obama administration for federal relief funding. In 2012 the chief medical officer for the New Mexico Department of Health and the deputy secretary both resigned. The individuals allege that Martinez ordered their termination for promoting birth control to the public. Martinez and the New Mexico Department of Health denied any connection between the resignations and an interview concerning condom use. Many Republicans speculated as to whether Martinez would be the vice presidential nominee on the Republican ticket in 2012 and 2016, but she said numerous times that she would not run. On May
Judge dismisses lawsuit against New Mexico health provider. [SEP] Dismissed U.S. attorneys summary // prosecutions in New Mexico history, a record number of overall prosecutions and a 95 percent conviction rate. (In one of the documents released this week, I was deemed a "diverse up and comer" in 2004. Two years later I was asked to resign with no reasons given.)...[the fired U.S. attorneys] had apparently been singled out for political reasons." In addition, Iglesias responded to critics about his failure to pursue voter fraud cases: "As this story has unfolded these last few weeks, much has been made of my decision to not prosecute alleged voter fraud in New Mexico. Without the benefit
The COVID-19 pandemic was planned by the Rockefeller Foundation in "Operation Lockstep. [SEP] Max Theiler // War II. Subculturing the particularly virulent Asibi strain from West Africa in chicken embryos, a technique pioneered by Ernest Goodpasture, the Rockefeller team sought to obtain an attenuated strain of the virus that would not kill mice when injected into their brains. It took until 1937, and more than 100 subcultures in chicken embryos, for Theiler and his colleague Hugh Smith to obtain an attenuated strain, which they named "17D". Animal tests showed the attenuated 17D mutant was safe and immunizing. Theiler's team rapidly completed the development of a 17D vaccine, and the Rockefeller Foundation began human trials in South
The COVID-19 pandemic was planned by the Rockefeller Foundation in "Operation Lockstep. [SEP] United States biological weapons program // were commissioned on Plum Island. The other four programs researched included RVF, rinderpest, African swine fever, plus eleven miscellaneous exotic animal diseases. The eleven miscellaneous pathogens were: Blue tongue virus, bovine influenza, bovine virus diarrhea (BVD), fowl plague, goat pneumonitis, mycobacteria, "N" virus, Newcastle disease, sheep pox, Teschers disease, and vesicular stomatitis. Work on delivery systems for the U.S. bioweapons arsenal led to the first mass-produced biological weapon in 1952, the M33 cluster bomb. The M33's sub-munition, the pipe-bomb-like cylindrical M114 bomb, was also completed and battle-ready by 1952. Other delivery systems researched and at least partially developed during the
The COVID-19 pandemic was planned by the Rockefeller Foundation in "Operation Lockstep. [SEP] Virus (novel) // death in the closing stages of the pandemic. The two American officers admit that the ARS was borne out of hardline anti-Soviet policies; a new regime that took office in 1969 was working towards a nuclear disarmament deal with the Soviets around the time of the pandemic. The Soviet contingent admits that some of their missiles may be targeted at a now-decommissioned US rocket base in Antarctica. In a special mission codenamed Operation Fireman, Yoshizumi and Major Carter volunteer to go to the ARS command bunker underneath the White House; two Soviet volunteers go to Moscow aboard the "T-232" to
The COVID-19 pandemic was planned by the Rockefeller Foundation in "Operation Lockstep. [SEP] Operation Infektion // in 1962 for the sheer purpose of publishing disinformation. An anonymous letter was sent to the editor in July 1983 from a "well-known American scientist and anthropologist" who claimed that AIDS was manufactured at Fort Detrick by genetic engineers. The "scientist" claimed that "that deadly mysterious disease was believed to be the results of the Pentagon's experiments to develop new and dangerous biological weapons," and implicated CDC scientists sent to Africa and Latin America to find dangerous viruses alien to Asia and Europe. These results were purportedly analyzed in Atlanta and Fort Detrick and thus the "most likely course of
The COVID-19 pandemic was planned by the Rockefeller Foundation in "Operation Lockstep. [SEP] Views of Lyndon LaRouche and the LaRouche movement // "Larouche to Rumsfeld: FDR Defeated the Nazis, While Bushes Collaborated". In 1974, an organisation affiliated to LaRouche predicted that there would be pandemics in Africa. When AIDS was first recognized as a medical phenomenon in the early 1980s, LaRouche activists were convinced that this was the pandemic about which the task force had warned. LaRouche and his followers stated that HIV, the AIDS virus, could be transmitted by casual contact, citing as supporting evidence the high incidence of the disease in Africa, the Caribbean and southern Florida. LaRouche said that the transmission by insect bite was "thoroughly established". John Grauerholz,
The COVID-19 pandemic was planned by the Rockefeller Foundation in "Operation Lockstep. [SEP] Rainbow Six (novel) // Iran during its biological attack on the U.S. (depicted in "Executive Orders"). After the epidemic starts at the conclusion of the games, Brightling's company would then distribute a vaccine that actually contains the virus itself, effectively killing the rest of the world's population that are not infected with Shiva. The "chosen few", having been provided with the real vaccine, would then inherit the emptied world, convinced of their justification for mass murder as "saving the world" from the encroachment of destructive humanity. Popov, oblivious of the Project, learns about the existence of Rainbow. He is later tasked by Brightling and
The COVID-19 pandemic was planned by the Rockefeller Foundation in "Operation Lockstep. [SEP] Rockefeller Foundation // the Foundation's program. Another significant program was its Medical Sciences Division, which extensively funded women's contraception and the human reproductive system in general. Other funding went into endocrinology departments in American universities, human heredity, mammalian biology, human physiology and anatomy, psychology, and the studies of human sexual behavior by Dr. Alfred Kinsey. In 1950 the Foundation mounted a major program of virus research, establishing field laboratories in Poona, India; Port of Spain, Trinidad; Belém, Brazil; Johannesburg, South Africa; Cairo, Egypt; Ibadan, Nigeria; and Cali, Colombia. In time, major funding was also contributed by the countries involved, while in Trinidad the
The COVID-19 pandemic was planned by the Rockefeller Foundation in "Operation Lockstep. [SEP] Amir Attaran // in "The Lancet" that the editors of that journal credited as the "blueprint" for fighting the global HIV/AIDS pandemic on a large scale. Attaran and Sachs proposed a new, multibillion-dollar fund that would be "based on grants, not loans, for the poorest countries", and which would be "judged as having epidemiological merit ... by a panel of independent scientific experts." Attaran and Sachs' policy innovations were widely championed by advocates, and incorporated into the design of the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria which launched later that year. The Fund has since saved over 20 million lives. In
The COVID-19 pandemic was planned by the Rockefeller Foundation in "Operation Lockstep. [SEP] Kurt Blome // must be attacked simultaneously with various human and animal epidemic pathogens as well as plant pests." According to Kliewe, plague, typhoid, cholera and anthrax were being developed as weapons, as well as a new "synthetic medium for the spread of these bacteria" which would allow them to remain virulent for eight to twelve weeks. As part of the Nazi biological warfare program code-named "Blitzableiter" (Lightning Rod), Blome's institute was therefore "a camouflaged operation for the production of biological warfare agents", and its construction was overseen by Karl I. Gross, an S.S. officer and specialist in tropical diseases, who had conducted
The COVID-19 pandemic was planned by the Rockefeller Foundation in "Operation Lockstep. [SEP] Rainbow Six (novel) // master plan to wipe out the majority of the human race, called "the Project". Dr. John Brightling, a staunch environmentalist who heads a biotechnology firm called the Horizon Corporation, had orchestrated the attacks through ex-KGB officer Dimitri Popov in order to raise awareness of terrorism, which then helps former FBI agent and co-conspirator Bill Henriksen's security firm land a contract during the Olympic Games in Sydney, Australia. From within the Olympic security apparatus, Henriksen plans to launch a sophisticated bioweapon attack using nanocapsules containing the Shiva virus, a mutated form of the Ebola virus that had been previously used by
Donald Trump Says Hillary Clinton "wants to go to a single-payer plan" for health care [SEP] Political positions of Hillary Clinton // insurance or contribute to the costs of their employees' health insurance coverage; tax credits will be provided to companies with fewer than 25 employees to help cover costs. In order to pay for the program's estimated $110 billion per year cost, Clinton favored repealing some of the Bush tax cuts for those earning more than $250,000. In January 2016, Clinton said that single-payer healthcare "will never, ever come to pass." She does not disagree with the idea of single-payer healthcare (which she has advocated in the past), finding it instead impractical. She proposes to defend the Affordable Care Act from
Donald Trump Says Hillary Clinton "wants to go to a single-payer plan" for health care [SEP] Political positions of Hillary Clinton // care reform cannot be done when access to care depends on skin color or the neighborhood they live in or the amount of money in their wallet. Let's continue to work toward universal affordable, quality health care." Reportedly, Clinton expressed support when she was First Lady for universal single-payer health care in the U.S. during multiple private conversations, while sometimes indicating that she believed such an approach would not be politically tenable. Clinton later said that health care coverage improvements need to be made incrementally, in contrast to the more ambitious, wide-ranging plan that failed in 1993 to 1994. In
Donald Trump Says Hillary Clinton "wants to go to a single-payer plan" for health care [SEP] Donald Trump // opposition to Trump's criticisms, saying that the bureaucracy exists to protect people against well-organized, well-funded interest groups. In 1999, Trump told "Larry King Live": "I believe in universal healthcare." Trump's 2000 book, "The America We Deserve", argued strongly for a single-payer healthcare system based on the Canadian model, and he has voiced admiration for the Scottish National Health Service. During his campaign, Trump repeatedly vowed to repeal and replace Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (ACA or "Obamacare"). Shortly after taking office, he urged Congress to repeal and replace it. In May of that year, the House of Representatives voted
Donald Trump Says Hillary Clinton "wants to go to a single-payer plan" for health care [SEP] Political positions of Donald Trump // subsequently said at various points that he believes that the government should have limited involvement of health care, but has also said that "at the lower end, where people have no money, I want to try and help those people," by "work[ing] out some sort of a really smart deal with hospitals across the country." and has said "everybody's got to be covered." At a February 2016 town hall on CNN, Trump said that he supported the individual health insurance mandate of the ACA, which requires all Americans to have health insurance, saying "I like the mandate. So here's where
Donald Trump Says Hillary Clinton "wants to go to a single-payer plan" for health care [SEP] Political positions of Donald Trump // care." In his 2000 book, "The America We Deserve", Trump reiterated his call for universal health care and focused on a Canadian-style single-payer health care system as a means to achieve it. Though he characterized the Canadian health-care system as "catastrophic in certain ways" in October 2016 during the second presidential debate, the Trump campaign website wrote in June 2015 about his support for "a system that would mirror Canada's government-run healthcare service" under the title "What does Donald Trump believe? Where the candidate stands on 10 issues". In 2015, Trump also expressed admiration for the Scottish health-care system, which
Donald Trump Says Hillary Clinton "wants to go to a single-payer plan" for health care [SEP] Political positions of Donald Trump // don't even know about will be devised because we're going to come up with plans—health care plans—that will be so good. And so much less expensive both for the country and for the people. And so much better." His plan has been criticized by Republican health experts as "a jumbled hodgepodge of old Republican ideas, randomly selected, that don't fit together" (Robert Laszewski) providing nothing that "would do anything more than cover a couple million people," (Gail R. Wilensky). In 1999, during his abortive 2000 Reform Party presidential campaign, Trump told TV interviewer Larry King, "I believe in universal health
Donald Trump Says Hillary Clinton "wants to go to a single-payer plan" for health care [SEP] Political positions of Elizabeth Warren // to move us forward with health-care coverage by using a conservative model that came from one of the conservative think tanks that had been advanced by a Republican governor in Massachusetts. Now it’s time for the next step. And the next step is single payer.” In September 2017, Warren said she would support Bernie Sanders' single-payer plan that would expand Medicare to all Americans. Warren said that the plan would guarantee medical care for all at the lowest prices. In a message to her supporters she said, "Health care is a basic human right and it’s time to fight for
Donald Trump Says Hillary Clinton "wants to go to a single-payer plan" for health care [SEP] Hillary Clinton 2008 presidential primary campaign // 2007, Clinton revealed her new American Health Choices Plan, an "individual mandate" universal health care plan that would require health care coverage for all individuals. Clinton explained individuals can keep their current employer-based coverage, or choose an expanded version of Medicare or federal employee health plans. The projected cost of the plan is $110 billion annually and will require all employers to cover their employees' health insurance or contribute to the costs of their employees' health insurance coverage; tax credits will be provided to companies with fewer than 25 employees to help cover costs. She proposed to pay for the
Donald Trump Says Hillary Clinton "wants to go to a single-payer plan" for health care [SEP] Political positions of Donald Trump // insurance coverage for between zero and 10 million people while increasing the deficit in a range from zero to $90 billion in 2018. According to the report, low-income individuals and sicker people would be most adversely affected by his proposed policies, although it was pointed out that not all policy proposals have been modeled. As the 2016 campaign unfolded, Trump stated that he favors repealing the Affordable Care Act (ACA or "Obamacare")—which Trump refers to as a "complete disaster"—and replacing it with a "free-market system." On his campaign website, Trump says, "on day one of the Trump Administration, we will
Donald Trump Says Hillary Clinton "wants to go to a single-payer plan" for health care [SEP] Political positions of Donald Trump // I'm a little bit different [from other Republican candidates]." In March 2016, Trump reversed himself, saying that "Our elected representatives must eliminate the individual mandate. No person should be required to buy insurance unless he or she wants to." In March 2016, Trump released his health care plan, which called for allowing health-insurance companies to compete across state lines and for making Medicaid into a block grant system for the states. He also called for elimination of the individual mandate for health insurance, for allowing health insurance premiums to be deducted on tax returns, and for international competition in the
Parking lot carjackers are placing flyers or $100 bills on the windows of automobiles, then taking the cars when drivers step out of their vehicles to remove them. [SEP] Federal Reserve Bank of New York // 1974 film "The Taking of Pelham One Two Three" hijackers take over a subway train car and demand $1 million for release of the car and 19 passengers, and the city must deliver it to the train car within one hour or the hijackers will start executing passengers at the rate of one per minute until it's delivered. The money for the ransom, to be provided in bundles of used $50 and $100 bills, is frantically assembled by workers at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York while a police cruiser waits at the front entrance for it to be
Parking lot carjackers are placing flyers or $100 bills on the windows of automobiles, then taking the cars when drivers step out of their vehicles to remove them. [SEP] The No Asshole Rule // researcher who picked up the flyer on their car and threw it on the ground. Watching this one driver litter affected the subject as “drivers who saw the 'norm violation' were less likely to throw their handbill into a clean parking lot (6 percent vs. 14 percent) but more likely to throw it into a messy lot (54 percent vs. 32 percent)”. This study shows when one person is caught breaking a rule others are more likely to follow it whereas if everyone seems to be breaking the rule we are more likely to break it as well. Sutton has
Parking lot carjackers are placing flyers or $100 bills on the windows of automobiles, then taking the cars when drivers step out of their vehicles to remove them. [SEP] Monopoly (game) // Tax, Chance and Community Chest goes to the center of the board instead of the bank. Many people add $500 to start each pile of Free Parking money, guaranteeing a minimum payout. When a player lands on Free Parking, they may take the money. Another rule is that if a player lands directly on Go, they collect double the amount, or $400, instead of $200. House rules that slow or prevent money being returned to the bank in this way may have a side effect of increasing the time it takes for players to become bankrupt, lengthening the game considerably,
Parking lot carjackers are placing flyers or $100 bills on the windows of automobiles, then taking the cars when drivers step out of their vehicles to remove them. [SEP] Parking lot // ticket and pays the fee required before returning to their car, then drives to the exit terminal and presents the ticket. If the ticket has not been paid for, the boom barrier will not raise, which will force the customer to either press the intercom and speak to a staff member, or reverse out to pay at the pay station or cashier booth. At the parking lots of some major airports in the United States, a driver can choose to swipe a credit card at the entry ticket dispenser instead of taking a ticket. When the driver swipes the same
Parking lot carjackers are placing flyers or $100 bills on the windows of automobiles, then taking the cars when drivers step out of their vehicles to remove them. [SEP] United States two-dollar bill // the upper right corner "2" was sometimes torn off to increase the luck. The relative scarcity of the $2 bill in everyday circulation has led to confusion at points of sale, as well as overreaction and prosecution of the individual attempting to tender the bill. In 2005, a man in Baltimore, Maryland, was jailed for attempting to use $2 bills to pay a car stereo installation fee that Best Buy originally agreed to waive in the first place. In 2016, a 13-year-old girl in Texas was detained by police at Fort Bend Independent School District's Christa McAuliffe Middle School and
Parking lot carjackers are placing flyers or $100 bills on the windows of automobiles, then taking the cars when drivers step out of their vehicles to remove them. [SEP] 2010 Times Square car bombing attempt // reportedly exchanged the cash for the car at a Connecticut shopping center parking lot, where he inspected the interior and cargo area (but not the engine) and declined the offer of a bill of sale. He later had the car windows tinted, which made it harder to peer inside. A surveillance tape from the parking lot shows Shahzad test-driving the car, according to the FBI. He bought a second vehicle through Craigslist (a black Isuzu Rodeo) from a mechanic in Stratford, Connecticut. Shahzad reportedly watched streaming videos online to determine the day of the week and time that Times Square
Parking lot carjackers are placing flyers or $100 bills on the windows of automobiles, then taking the cars when drivers step out of their vehicles to remove them. [SEP] Twenty Bucks // to claim some items the police recovered. The police officer (William H. Macy) unwittingly includes the $20 bill. After flying out of the box from the back seat of Emily's convertible, the bill floats around town, and is picked up by a homeless man who uses it to buy groceries. (In this scene, Angeline is again unable to buy a lottery ticket.) The bill is given as change to a wealthy woman who uses it to snort cocaine off the back of her stretch limousine, although she leaves it on her car, where it is picked up by the drug
Parking lot carjackers are placing flyers or $100 bills on the windows of automobiles, then taking the cars when drivers step out of their vehicles to remove them. [SEP] Carjacking // spots do arise occasionally, and that since the late 1990s, "[Sydney]] has experienced a number of carjacking clusters ... each lasting around three to six months and occurring in different locations including the eastern suburbs, the inner city and the south-west." Carjacking Carjacking is a robbery in which the item taken over is a motor vehicle. The word is a portmanteau of car and hijacking. The term was coined by EJ Mitchell, an editor with "The Detroit News". "The News" first used the term in a 1991 report on the murder of Ruth Wahl, a 22-year-old Detroit drugstore cashier who
Parking lot carjackers are placing flyers or $100 bills on the windows of automobiles, then taking the cars when drivers step out of their vehicles to remove them. [SEP] Jack Muller // he took the Chicago Police exam and passed. In 1946 a Chicago Police officer's salary was $2900 per year. The first parking ticket Jack wrote was for an illegally parked car on Argyle Street; as he was tucking the ticket under the wiper blade, the man that owned the car ran up and tried to persuade him to tear it up. He was a small political figure in the city, and when the court case came up, the judge threw it out. This incident had a profound impact on Muller and set the stage of fighting with corrupt city officials
Parking lot carjackers are placing flyers or $100 bills on the windows of automobiles, then taking the cars when drivers step out of their vehicles to remove them. [SEP] Parking lot // credit card at the exit terminal upon leaving the lot, the applicable parking fee is automatically calculated and charged to the credit card used. In some parking lots, drivers present their tickets to and pay the cashiers at a separate cashier's office or counter (which are often located elsewhere from the entrances and exits of carparks). Such cashier's offices are called shroff offices or simply shroff in some parking lots in Hong Kong and other parts of East Asia influenced by the Hong Kong usage. If a ticket has not been paid, the barrier will not raise. In recent years,
Fight against malaria could be set back 20 years, WHO warns. [SEP] Malaria // to eradicate it worldwide. In 2006, the organization Malaria No More set a public goal of eliminating malaria from Africa by 2015, and the organization plans to dissolve if that goal is accomplished. Several malaria vaccines are in clinical trials, which are intended to provide protection for children in endemic areas and reduce the speed of transmission of the disease. , The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria has distributed 230 million insecticide-treated nets intended to stop mosquito-borne transmission of malaria. The U.S.-based Clinton Foundation has worked to manage demand and stabilize prices in the artemisinin market. Other
Fight against malaria could be set back 20 years, WHO warns. [SEP] Mosquito net // after 7 years. When calculating the cost of LLINs for large-scale malaria prevention campaigns, the cost should be divided by the number of years of expected life: A more expensive net may be cheaper over time. In addition the logistical costs of replacing nets should be added to the calculation. A review of 22 randomized controlled trials of ITNs found (for "Plasmodium falciparum" malaria) that ITNs can reduce deaths in children by one fifth and episodes of malaria by half. More specifically, in areas of stable malaria "ITNs reduced the incidence of uncomplicated malarial episodes by 50% compared to no
Fight against malaria could be set back 20 years, WHO warns. [SEP] PATH (global health organization) // in 2011 showed the vaccine provided about 50 percent protection against malaria for young children ages 5 to 17 months. Interim study results released in 2012 showed RTS,S reduced cases of malaria among infants by 33 percent. In October 2013, GlaxoSmithKline reported that the experimental vaccine reduced the amount of cases amongst young children by almost 50 percent and among infants by around 25 percent, following the conclusion of an 18-month clinical trial. GlaxoSmithKline is set to submit an application for a marketing license with the European Medicines Agency (EMA) in 2014. The new vaccine has the backing of the
Fight against malaria could be set back 20 years, WHO warns. [SEP] Jeffrey Sachs // to combat malaria. The economic impact of malaria has been estimated to cost Africa $12 billion per year. Sachs estimates that malaria can be controlled for $3 billion per year, thus suggesting that anti-malaria projects would be an economically justified investment. The Millennium Villages Project, which he directs, operates in more than a dozen African countries and covers more than 500,000 people. The MVP has engendered considerable controversy associated as critics have questioned both the design of the project and claims made for its success. In 2012 "The Economist" reviewed the project and concluded "the evidence does not yet support
Fight against malaria could be set back 20 years, WHO warns. [SEP] PATH (global health organization) // UN's Swiss-based WHO which states that it will recommend the use of RTS,S for use starting in 2015, providing it gets approval. Another PATH initiative to address malaria is the Malaria Control and Evaluation Partnership in Africa (MACEPA), which focuses on controlling malaria through the use of insecticide-treated bednets, indoor spraying of insecticides, new diagnostic tools to find infection, and effective medicines for treatment. In Zambia, this work has helped decrease the rate of malaria among children younger than age 5 by 50 percent in two years. In December 2012, PATH received an award from the US President's Malaria Initiative
Fight against malaria could be set back 20 years, WHO warns. [SEP] Silent Spring // on their genetic traits to their offspring, which replace the pesticide-slain insects relatively rapidly. Agricultural spraying of pesticides produces pesticide resistance in seven to ten years. Some experts have said that restrictions placed on the agricultural use of DDT have increased its effectiveness for malaria control. According to pro-DDT advocate Amir Attaran, the result of the (activated in 2004) Stockholm Convention banning DDT's use in agriculture "is arguably better than the status quo ... For the first time, there is now an insecticide which is restricted to vector control only, meaning that the selection of resistant mosquitoes will be slower
Fight against malaria could be set back 20 years, WHO warns. [SEP] Malaria // people visiting areas where malaria exists usually start taking the drugs one to two weeks before arriving and continue taking them for four weeks after leaving (except for atovaquone/proguanil, which only needs to be started two days before and continued for seven days afterward). The use of preventative drugs is often not practical for those who live in areas where malaria exists, and their use is usually only in pregnant women and short-term visitors. This is due to the cost of the drugs, side effects from long-term use, and the difficulty in obtaining anti-malarial drugs outside of wealthy nations. During
Fight against malaria could be set back 20 years, WHO warns. [SEP] EcoHealth // plantations at night. Several preventive actions have been taken. The scientists have proposed a new insecticide that, unlike DDT, does not persist in the environment. They have also developed a more effective pump that can spray 40 homes a day instead of 8, and uses less insecticide. A new malaria testing kit now detects the presence or absence of parasites in a patient's blood in only a few minutes, unlike laboratory tests that take three to four weeks to confirm a diagnosis. Previously, the need to wait for test results forced the authorities to treat everyone who showed vague symptoms
Fight against malaria could be set back 20 years, WHO warns. [SEP] Mass drug administration // for two years. In two small village clusters, house spraying was supplemented with larvicide and MDA every two weeks. With biweekly MDA, parasite prevalence fell to 1% in the dry season and to 5% in the rainy season. MDA given every 10 weeks resulted in a parasite prevalence of 2% in the dry season and 28% in the rainy season. Transmission was not interrupted with either MDA regime. The authors concluded that spraying of residual insecticides and MDA did not result in a sustainable interruption of malaria transmission. In 1999 in The Gambia residents living in 33 of 42 villages
Fight against malaria could be set back 20 years, WHO warns. [SEP] Malaria prophylaxis // they are only effective at killing the malaria parasite once it has entered the erythrocytic stage (blood stage) of its life cycle, and therefore have no effect until the liver stage is complete. That is why these prophylactics must continue to be taken for four weeks after leaving the area of risk. Mefloquine, doxycycline, and atovaquone-proguanil appear to be equally effective at reducing the risk of malaria for short-term travelers and are similar with regard to their risk of serious side effects. Mefloquine is sometimes preferred due to its once a week dose, however mefloquine is not always as well
Isles’ Lehner thrives after confronting mental health issues. [SEP] Robin Lehner // alcohol and drug addiction before seeking help and getting sober during the 2018 offseason. Robin Lehner Robin Lehner (born 24 July 1991) is a Swedish professional ice hockey goaltender for the New York Islanders of the National Hockey League (NHL). He has also played for the Ottawa Senators and Buffalo Sabres. Lehner was selected by the Ottawa Senators in the second round, 46th overall, of the 2009 NHL Entry Draft and was the recipient of the Jack A. Butterfield Trophy as MVP of the 2011 Calder Cup playoffs with the champion Binghamton Senators, Ottawa's American Hockey League (AHL) affiliate. Lehner
Isles’ Lehner thrives after confronting mental health issues. [SEP] Debra Lampshire // Debra Lampshire Debra Lampshire is a trainer, educator, advocate and experience-based expert on mental health. Lampshire is project manager for the Psychological Interventions for Enduring Mental Illness Project at the Auckland District Health Board (ADHB). She is the first non-clinician to hold this position. She is also a senior tutor with the Centre for Mental Health Research and Policy Development at the University of Auckland. She is chairperson for International Society for Psychological and Social Approaches to Psychosis (ISPS) New Zealand. At the age of 17, she was committed to the former Kingseat Psychiatric Hospital in Karaka, having episodes of
Isles’ Lehner thrives after confronting mental health issues. [SEP] Robin Lehner // Robin Lehner Robin Lehner (born 24 July 1991) is a Swedish professional ice hockey goaltender for the New York Islanders of the National Hockey League (NHL). He has also played for the Ottawa Senators and Buffalo Sabres. Lehner was selected by the Ottawa Senators in the second round, 46th overall, of the 2009 NHL Entry Draft and was the recipient of the Jack A. Butterfield Trophy as MVP of the 2011 Calder Cup playoffs with the champion Binghamton Senators, Ottawa's American Hockey League (AHL) affiliate. Lehner started playing hockey relatively late at ten years old. He had previously played soccer.
Isles’ Lehner thrives after confronting mental health issues. [SEP] Gail Hornstein // of survivors of the mental health system and their stories. In 2017, she attracted criticism for publishing an article in the "Chronicle of Higher Education" in which she described why she encouraged students with emotional disabilities to develop coping skills and community support for rather than always rely on the accommodations which they are legally afforded. Further, she describes how she reaches out to support students when aware of a possible emotional crisis. Gail Hornstein Gail Hornstein is an American psychologist and author. She is a professor of psychology and education at Mount Holyoke College. She doesn't see mental disorders
Isles’ Lehner thrives after confronting mental health issues. [SEP] Ginger Lerner-Wren // criminal justice system. In December 2013, The HiiL Foundation (The Hague, Netherlands) selected Judge Ginger Lerner-Wren and Broward's Mental Health Court 'Top Finalist' - 2013 Innovating Justice Awards. In March 2018, Judge Lerner-Wren will publish A Court of Refuge - a book that tells the story of how the court grew from an offshoot of her criminal division held during lunch hour without the aid of any federal funding, to a revolutionary institution that has successfully diverted more than 20,000 people with serious mental illness from jail and into treatment facilities and other community resources. For full list of publications,
Isles’ Lehner thrives after confronting mental health issues. [SEP] Robin Lehner // in the Islanders' history to post a shutout in his debut with the team, leading them to a 4–0 win over the San Jose Sharks. Lehner has competed internationally for Sweden in the 2009 IIHF World U18 Championships in Fargo, North Dakota, and Moorhead, Minnesota, where Sweden placed fifth. He competed for starting goaltender at the 2011 World Junior Ice Hockey Championships in Buffalo, New York. Lehner is a butterfly-style goalie who uses his large frame to his advantage. Despite his size, he remains quite mobile with good lateral movement. Following the 2009 NHL Entry Draft, Senators' scouting staff described
Isles’ Lehner thrives after confronting mental health issues. [SEP] Alan I. Leshner // Director of the National Institute of Mental Health. He went to NIMH from the National Science Foundation (NSF), where he held a variety of senior positions, focusing on basic research in the biological, behavioral and social sciences, science policy and science education. Leshner was the Chief Executive Officer of the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS) and Executive Publisher of the journal Science from December 2001-February 2015. AAAS, founded in 1848, is the world's largest, multi-disciplinary scientific and engineering society. Leshner is an elected fellow of AAAS, the National Academy of Public Administration, the American Academy of Arts
Isles’ Lehner thrives after confronting mental health issues. [SEP] Kevin Love // revealed–in response to DeMar DeRozan's public discussion of his struggles with depression–that he had been seeing a therapist for several months following a panic attack during a game in November 2017. He wrote of "creating a better environment for talking about mental health" and the need to remember that "Everyone is going through something that we can't see." In August 2018, Love continued his advocacy for mental health awareness, discussing his family's history of depression, along with his own struggles with anxiety, rage, and "dark times" where he would hide in his room and not talk to anyone. Love says
Isles’ Lehner thrives after confronting mental health issues. [SEP] Robin Lehner // the goaltending coach for Frölunda HC, Lundqvist's and Robin Lehner's former team. When longtime Senators captain Daniel Alfredsson signed with the Detroit Red Wings in 2013, he sold his house in Ottawa to Lehner. Lehner is a fan of melodic death metal and in particular Swedish band In Flames, who originate from Lehner's home town of Gothenburg. The band influenced the design on Lehner's mask. Lehner and his wife, Donya ("née" Naini) have two children: a son, Lennox, and a daughter, Zoe. Donya is of Persian descent. Lehner has been diagnosed with Bipolar disorder, ADHD, and PTSD and struggled with
Isles’ Lehner thrives after confronting mental health issues. [SEP] Aletha Maybank // Mental Hygiene in 2014. She is the founding director of the department's new Center of Health Equity. She is a weekly television contributor on ARISE America, a program on ARISE TV – the recently launched global news channel anchored in Johannesburg, London, and New York. She has appeared or been profiled on MSNBC’s Melissa Harris-Perry show, BET's 106 & Park, HuffPost Live, Our World with Black Enterprise, FOX 5 NY Good Day Street Talk, and various other outlets. Aletha Maybank Karen Aletha Maybank (born April 24, 1974 in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania) is an American physician, with family roots in Antigua. She
EU suspends delivery of 10 million masks over quality issues. [SEP] Euro coins // their indiscriminate and long-term effects on civilians. The CCM prohibits the use, produce, retain or transfer cluster munitions as well as assistance with these acts. After parliamentary questions were posed, the Dutch government stated that the Royal Dutch Mint had ordered around 40 million 'coin blanks' between 2011 and 2016, and that Poongsan was on a list of vetted suppliers of the European Commission's Mint Directors Working Group. Since then, both the Royal Dutch Mint and the Norwegian Mint have excluded Poongsan as a coin blank supplier due to its involvement in cluster munitions. In the European Parliament, questions were
EU suspends delivery of 10 million masks over quality issues. [SEP] Government procurement in the European Union // states who had failed to notify the Commission of their transposition of one or more of the three new directives into their national law by the due date. The Commission's letter of formal notice was sent to Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Cyprus, Estonia, Ireland, Greece, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, the Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovenia, Finland, Spain and Sweden. The European Commission estimates that the elimination of trade barriers resulting from discriminatory and preferential procurement practices may bring about savings to the European economy of about 0.5% of EU GDP, which would be about USD 92 billion
EU suspends delivery of 10 million masks over quality issues. [SEP] Gas mask // Kurd. Iran was unprepared for chemical warfare. In 1984, Iran received gas masks from the Republic of Korea and East Germany, but the Korean masks were not suited for the faces of non-East Asian people and the filter only lasted for 15 minutes, and the 5,000 masks bought from East Germany proved to be not gas masks but spray painting goggles. As late as 1986, Iranian diplomats still traveled in Europe to buy active charcoal and models of filters in order to produce defensive gear domestically. In April 1988, Iran started domestic production of gas masks by the Iran Yasa
EU suspends delivery of 10 million masks over quality issues. [SEP] 2013 Southeast Asian haze // masks to constituencies and the remaining 3 million to retailers. The Manpower Ministry refrained from issuing a stop-work order, saying that the Government would do so only if the haze worsened severely. On 22 June 2013, the haze started giving way to clear skies as the PSI dropped from 326 at 10am in the "Hazardous" range to 73 at 5pm in the "Moderate" range. The next day, the improvement was sustained in the morning, with the PSI in the "Moderate" range. The improvement in the air quality was due to a change in the direction of the low level winds
EU suspends delivery of 10 million masks over quality issues. [SEP] Basic (cigarette) // also were or still are sold in Luxembourg, Sweden, Germany, France, Austria, Spain, Czech Republic, Hong Kong and Japan. In May 1995, it was reported that a $100 million recall involving more than eight billion filtered cigarettes, including its Marlboro, Virginia Slims and Benson & Hedges brands. The company said manufacturing defects in filters could cause smokers ""temporary discomfort"" from an irritant similar to a commercial pesticide. Since there was no way to identify the defective cigarettes by scrutinizing their boxes or cartons, the company asked all smokers of 36 of its product lines to return them to retailers immediately
EU suspends delivery of 10 million masks over quality issues. [SEP] Effects of the April 2010 Eyjafjallajökull eruption // ban, with later figures suggesting 107,000 flights cancelled during an 8-day period, accounting for 48% of total air traffic and roughly 10 million passengers. Following Air France-KLM's and British Airways' requests to the European Union, and additionally in the latter's case to the British government, for compensation, Gordon Brown announced that the EU Solidarity fund, designed to aid EU member states in the event of large-scale disasters, could be a possible source of compensation. The EU's competition commissioner, Joaquin Almunia, also said the EU was considering easing its rules on governmental subsidies to airlines. Late in April 2010, EU Transport
EU suspends delivery of 10 million masks over quality issues. [SEP] Operation N // that breaking it could result in injury or death. Later that year a notice informed Germans that gas-masks would be distributed on some days of the week only because of an insufficient supply of masks. It caused chaos and panic among the addressees of the message. On 30 April 1942 a false order was sent out to 209 factories under German administration, ordering that all workers be granted a fully paid day off work, due to the celebration of the day the NSDAP came to power. In February 1944 a false order was issued specifying the sequence of evacuation of
EU suspends delivery of 10 million masks over quality issues. [SEP] Extreme ultraviolet lithography // into the EUV mask layers. Once trapped, bulge defects were produced. These defects arise after a sufficient number of EUV mask exposures in the hydrogen environment. The resolution of EUV lithography for the future faces challenges in maintaining throughput, i.e., how many wafers are processed by an EUV tool per day. These challenges arise from smaller fields, additional mirrors, and shot noise. In order to maintain throughput, the power at intermediate focus (IF) must be continually increased. Preparation of an anamorphic lens with an NA between 0.5 and 0.6 is underway as of 2016. The demagnification will be 8X in
EU suspends delivery of 10 million masks over quality issues. [SEP] European Anti-Fraud Office // world's four largest tobacco manufacturers. The companies agreed to pay a collective total of $2.15 billion to the EU and Member States. With the agreements, the manufacturers have also committed themselves to comprehensive rules concerning sales and distribution practices to promote compliance with EU and national rules as well as to ensure that their genuine cigarettes are sold, distributed, stored and shipped in accordance with all legal requirements. While OLAF is a largely successful organisation, it is not without faults and challenges. Most notably is how reliant it is on the cooperation of European Member States. OLAF is not a
EU suspends delivery of 10 million masks over quality issues. [SEP] EC Regulation 1223/2009 on cosmetics // has now updated the regulation to prohibit the use of these three fragrance allergens. This Regulation enter into force from August 23, 2017. TIMELINE for Compliance: · From August 23, 2019, only cosmetic products which comply with the Regulation shall be Placed on the European Union market. · From August 23, 2021, only cosmetic products which comply with the Regulation shall be made available on the European Union market. SOURCE of Information: EC Regulation 1223/2009<ref name="EC-1223/2009"></ref> was created by the European Parliament and Council with the intent of establishing standards for cosmetic products that are available on the market. Compliance
Research finds talc doesn’t cause cancer; juries disagree. [SEP] Talc // some studies have found a link, but other studies have not. The studies discuss pulmonary issues, lung cancer, and ovarian cancer. One of these, published in 1993, was a US National Toxicology Program report, which found that cosmetic grade talc containing no asbestos-like fibres was correlated with tumor formation in rats forced to inhale talc for 6 hours a day, five days a week over at least 113 weeks. A 1971 paper found particles of talc embedded in 75% of the ovarian tumors studied. Research published in 1995 and 2000 concluded that it was plausible that talc could cause ovarian
Research finds talc doesn’t cause cancer; juries disagree. [SEP] Talc // verdict of Eva Echeverria against Johnson & Johnson and its talc-containing consumer products for causing cancer. The judge stated that Eva Echeverria proved there is "an ongoing debate in the scientific and medical community about whether talc more probably than not causes ovarian cancer and thus (gives) rise to a duty to warn", but not enough to sustain the jury's imposition of liability against Johnson & Johnson stated, and concluded that Echeverria did not adequately establish that talc causes ovarian cancer. In July 2018, a court in St. Louis awarded a $4.7bn claim ($4.14bn in punitive damages and $550m in
Research finds talc doesn’t cause cancer; juries disagree. [SEP] Talc // cancer, but no conclusive evidence was shown. In the United States, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration and National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health have set occupational exposure limits to respirable talc dusts at 2 mg/m over an eight-hour workday. At levels of 1000 mg/m, inhalation of talc is considered immediately dangerous to life and health. The United States Food and Drug Administration considers talc (magnesium silicate) to be generally recognized as safe (GRAS) for use as an anticaking agent in table salt in concentrations smaller than 2%. One particular issue with commercial use of talc is its frequent
Research finds talc doesn’t cause cancer; juries disagree. [SEP] Talc // of fluid in the space between the lungs and the thoracic wall). It is inserted into the space via a chest tube, causing it to close up, so fluid cannot collect there. The finished product has been sterilized by gamma irradiation. Talc powder is a household item, sold globally for use in personal hygiene and cosmetics. Suspicions have been raised that its use contributes to certain types of disease, mainly cancers of the ovaries and lungs. It is classified as a group 3 agent in the IARC listing. Reviews by Cancer Research UK and the American Cancer Society conclude that
Research finds talc doesn’t cause cancer; juries disagree. [SEP] Ovarian cancer // to ovarian cancer. Other factors that have been investigated, such as smoking, low levels of vitamin D in the blood, presence of inclusion ovarian cysts, and infection with human papilloma virus (the cause of some cases of cervical cancer), have been disproven as risk factors for ovarian cancer. The carcinogenicity of perineal talc is controversial, because it can act as an irritant if it travels through the reproductive tract to the ovaries. Case-control studies have shown that use of perineal talc does increase the risk of ovarian cancer, but using talc more often does not create a greater risk. Use
Research finds talc doesn’t cause cancer; juries disagree. [SEP] Johnson's Baby // 2016, J&J was ordered to pay $72 million in damages to the family of Jackie Fox, a 62-year-old woman who died of ovarian cancer in 2015. She had used Johnson's Baby Powder for many years. J&J claimed that the safety of cosmetic talc is supported by decades of scientific evidence and it plans to appeal the verdict. The British charity, Ovacome was quoted as saying that while there were 16 studies which showed that using talc increased the risk of ovarian cancer by around a third, and a 2013 review of US studies had similar results for genital, but not
Research finds talc doesn’t cause cancer; juries disagree. [SEP] Talc // female genital area. Yet no federal agency in the US acted to remove talcum powder from the market or add warnings. In February 2016, as the result of a lawsuit against Johnson & Johnson (J&J), a St. Louis jury awarded $72 million to the family of an Alabama woman who died from ovarian cancer. The family claimed that the use of talcum powder was responsible for her cancer. In May 2016, a South Dakota woman was awarded $55 million as the result of another lawsuit against J&J. The woman had used Johnson & Johnson's Baby Powder for more than 35
Research finds talc doesn’t cause cancer; juries disagree. [SEP] Talc // co-location in underground deposits with asbestos ore. Stringent quality control since 1976, including separating cosmetic- and food-grade talc from "industrial" grade talc, has eliminated this issue, but it remains a potential hazard requiring mitigation in the mining and processing of talc. A 2010 US FDA survey failed to find asbestos in a variety of talc-containing products. A 2018 Reuters investigation has asserted that pharmaceuticals company Johnson & Johnson knew for decades that there was asbestos in its baby powder. In 2006 the International Agency for Research on Cancer classified talcum powder as a possible human carcinogen if used in the
Research finds talc doesn’t cause cancer; juries disagree. [SEP] Asbestos // fibers actually were found in the samples." Multiple studies by mineral chemists, cell biologists, and toxicologists between 1970 and 2000 found neither samples of asbestos in talc products nor symptoms of asbestos exposure among workers dealing with talc, but more recent work has rejected these conclusions in favor of "same as" asbestos risk. On July 12, 2018, a Missouri jury ordered Johnson & Johnson to pay a record $4.69 billion to 22 women who alleged the company’s talc-based products, including its baby powder, contain asbestos and caused them to develop ovarian cancer. Six mineral types are defined by the United
Research finds talc doesn’t cause cancer; juries disagree. [SEP] Talc // years before being diagnosed with ovarian cancer in 2011. In October 2016, a St. Louis jury awarded $70.1 million to a Californian woman with ovarian cancer who had used Johnson's Baby Powder for 45 years. In August 2017, a Los Angeles jury awarded $417 million to a Californian woman, Eva Echeverria, who developed ovarian cancer as a "proximate result of the unreasonably dangerous and defective nature of talcum powder", her lawsuit against Johnson & Johnson stated. At least 1,200 to 2,000 other talcum powder-related lawsuits are pending. On 20 October 2017, Los Angeles Superior Court judge Maren Nelson, dismissed the
US senators ask federal government to address youth vaping. [SEP] 42nd Canadian Parliament // the "Tobacco Act" to the "Tobacco and Vaping Products Act" and introduced provisions relating to vaping products, such as a prohibition to selling or marketing to minors, plain packaging requirements and restrictions on advertising. Among the other bills initiated in the senate that were adopted by the parliament, Bill S-208 made May 20 of each year National Seal Products Day, Bill S-211 made June 19 of each year National Sickle Cell Awareness Day, Bill S-218 made October of every year Latin American Heritage Month, Bill S-232 made May of every year Canadian Jewish Heritage Month, and Bill S-236 simply states
US senators ask federal government to address youth vaping. [SEP] JUUL // on youth vaping cessation. In April 2018, the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) requested that JUUL Labs turn over documents to "better understand the reportedly high rates of youth use and the particular youth appeal of these products." The FDA's request included asking the company to provide documents about the design and marketing of the JUUL, research on the safety of the products, and whether certain features of the device's design appeal to specific age groups. FDA also asked eBay to remove several listings of JUUL products, which eBay complied with. FDA commissioner Dr. Scott Gottlieb expressed concern about
US senators ask federal government to address youth vaping. [SEP] Youth smoking // prohibits free samples of cigarettes. An additional act passed was the Prevent All Cigarette Trafficking (PACT) Act of 2010 that has also helped limit youth access to tobacco via the internet. This act uses strict identification tactics, both at the time of purchase and upon delivery of tobacco products, to deter underage youths from purchasing cigarettes. Numerous additional measures at the state and community level to prevent adolescent cigarette use include increasing tobacco excise taxes, local support for tobacco laws, and prohibiting cigarette smoking in areas such as restaurants, schools, workplaces, and hospitals. Youth who begin smoking pass through various
US senators ask federal government to address youth vaping. [SEP] STATES Act // introduced the bill in the U.S. Senate and Representative David Joyce introduced a companion bill in the U.S. House of Representatives. The Senate bill was referred to the Senate Judiciary Committee and the House bill was referred to the House Judiciary Committee and the House Energy and Commerce Committee. President Donald Trump said he "probably will end up supporting" the bill on June 8. The same day, twelve governors, from West Coast states that had legalized cannabis for adult use, plus Maryland, New Jersey, New York, North Dakota and Pennsylvania, sent a letter to Congress urging passage of the measure.
US senators ask federal government to address youth vaping. [SEP] Youth PROMISE Act // Youth PROMISE Act The Youth Prison Reduction through Opportunities, Mentoring, Intervention, Support, and Education Act, or Youth PROMISE Act (H.R.1064) was proposed in the 111th Congress on February 13, 2009 by Democratic Rep. Robert C. Scott (VA-3), referred to the House Committee on the Judiciary. The measure seeks to amend the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act of 1974 with the intent to prevent and intervene against criminal delinquency and youth gang activity through assessing and developing standards and evidence-based practices. The proposed legislation also calls for data-collection from designated geographic areas to assess the needs and extant resources for
US senators ask federal government to address youth vaping. [SEP] Children's Health Insurance Program // or testify before Congress on behalf of the bill. An initial objection of Republicans in the Senate was that proposing to pay for the services by raising the federal tax on cigarettes, from 24 cents a pack to 67 cents a pack, ignored the likely consequence that sale of tobacco products would decrease and tax revenues would increasingly fall short of those needed to pay for the expansion of benefits. Kennedy and Hatch scoffed at the objection, with the former saying, "If we can keep people healthy and stop them from dying, I think most Americans would say 'Amen; isn't
US senators ask federal government to address youth vaping. [SEP] Ending Federal Marijuana Prohibition Act // ATF as the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Marijuana, Firearms and Explosives; and (2) the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau as the Alcohol, Tobacco, and Marijuana Tax and Trade Bureau. Finally, the bill would direct the Comptroller General to review federal laws, regulations, and policies to determine if changes are desirable in light of this Act. The Ending Federal Marijuana Prohibition Act of 2013 was introduced into the United States House of Representatives on February 5, 2013 by Rep. Jared Polis (D, CO-2). It was referred to the United States House Committee on the Judiciary, the United States House
US senators ask federal government to address youth vaping. [SEP] The Center to Prevent Youth Violence // we need to first understand the causal relationships and the effects such violence has on our communities.” HELP Senate Committee leaders lauded the report’s findings. “There is so much we can and absolutely should be doing to address gun violence—but as this report makes clear, one simple, critical step is to gain a better understanding of how to encourage the safe storage of guns,” said Senator Patty Murray (D-WA).“I’m hopeful that every Senator will take a close look at the findings in this nonpartisan report, and join families nationwide in pushing for stronger investments in gun violence research.” "If we
US senators ask federal government to address youth vaping. [SEP] Youth smoking // passed restricting distribution of cigarettes and smokeless tobacco to protect children and adolescents by giving ultimate jurisdiction to the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). However, in 2000 the Supreme Court ruled that Congress, as opposed to the FDA, was ruled to have authority in to regulate tobacco. A major act passed more recently in 2009 was the Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act. This act exerts many stipulations on cigarette distribution, but specifically for youth it prohibits the sale of flavored cigarettes which may be particularly salient to youth. This act also limits tobacco product advertising to youth and
US senators ask federal government to address youth vaping. [SEP] Tobacco 21 // through their own statements or through endorsement of Senate Bill 2100, the federal act to raise the tobacco age to 21: Hawaii’s Tobacco 21 bill was signed by Governor David Ige and raised the legal age to purchase tobacco products, including electronic smoking devices, to 21, beginning on January 1, 2016. The legislation of this bill arose after the Institute of Medicine released a report explaining that raising the age to 21 would have significant public health benefits. The report estimated that making the minimum age 21 would result in avoiding nearly 250,000 premature deaths and 50,000 fewer deaths from
Our spending has caught up with us, and our debt soon will eclipse the entire size of our national economy. [SEP] Abdul Hassan (lawyer) // "because the national debt and deficit are so large it is impossible to solve the deficit and debt problem with spending cuts and/or tax increases without destroying our way of life. The significant tax increases or spending cuts needed to solve the debt problem would have such a huge negative impact on our standard of living that any politician voting for such measures would be voted out of office." Under his plan, all budget deficits will be funded by bonds purchased by the Federal Reserve Bank. He said "We will no longer sell bonds to other countries or to Wall
Our spending has caught up with us, and our debt soon will eclipse the entire size of our national economy. [SEP] National debt of the United States // 42 percent of GDP in 2039. By comparison, such debt comprised 35 percent of GDP in 2007 and has averaged 39 percent of GDP during the past 40 years. The CBO reported in September 2011: "The nation cannot continue to sustain the spending programs and policies of the past with the tax revenues it has been accustomed to paying. Citizens will either have to pay more for their government, accept less in government services and benefits, or both." The CBO reported several types of risk factors related to rising debt levels in a July 2010 publication: Many American and other
Our spending has caught up with us, and our debt soon will eclipse the entire size of our national economy. [SEP] Addison Wiggin // Dollar Era. We're in an unsustainable trend right now," Wiggin told me, ticking off the miscalculations that have brought us to the brink of an economic apocalypse. To begin with, the U.S. has become the world's biggest debtor, with three outstanding obligations at alarming highs: consumer debt, or our mortgages and credit cards; the federal deficit; and our current account deficit with foreign countries. Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan, Wiggin continued, has simply shifted one bubble -- the 90's bubble in stocks and bonds -- into another, in real estate and "overconsumption," or the American propensity to pay for an
Our spending has caught up with us, and our debt soon will eclipse the entire size of our national economy. [SEP] Douglas Elmendorf // covers tax policy, it covers regulatory policy and it covers health policy." He noted that New figures released 30 June 2011 by the CBO show debt rising to 190 percent of the gross domestic product by 2035. Economists have warned that exceeding 90 percent of gross domestic product (GDP) is a prescription for a debt crisis. "The current level of debt is reducing our output, our incomes relative to what would be the case if we had a lower level of debt, leaving aside the effects of this particular recession, which complicate that," Elmendorf said. As of 2011 debt to
Our spending has caught up with us, and our debt soon will eclipse the entire size of our national economy. [SEP] National debt of the United States // jobs, we are doing far more harm to future generations than merely passing along debt: "Fiscal policy is, indeed, a moral issue, and we should be ashamed of what we're doing to the next generation's economic prospects. But our sin involves investing too little, not borrowing too much." Young workers face high unemployment and studies have shown their income may lag throughout their careers as a result. Teacher jobs have been cut, which could affect the quality of education and competitiveness of younger Americans. The US has never fully defaulted. In April 1979, however, the United States may have technically
Our spending has caught up with us, and our debt soon will eclipse the entire size of our national economy. [SEP] Economy of the United States // budget, total national debt will grow to nearly 100% of GDP, versus a level of approximately 80% in early 2009. The White House estimates that the government's tab for servicing the debt will exceed $700 billion a year in 2019, up from $202 billion in 2009. The U.S. Treasury statistics indicate that, at the end of 2006, non-US citizens and institutions held 44% of federal debt held by the public. , China, holding $1.26 trillion in treasury bonds, is the largest foreign financier of the U.S. public debt. The overall financial position of the United States as of 2014 includes
Our spending has caught up with us, and our debt soon will eclipse the entire size of our national economy. [SEP] Economy of the United States // the Great Recession and its aftermath. It is expected to continue rising as the country ages towards 100% GDP by 2028. The U.S. public debt was $909 billion in 1980, an amount equal to 33% of America's gross domestic product (GDP); by 1990, that number had more than tripled to $3.2 trillion—or 56% of GDP. In 2001 the national debt was $5.7 trillion; however, the debt-to-GDP ratio remained at 1990 levels. Debt levels rose quickly in the following decade, and on January 28, 2010, the U.S. debt ceiling was raised to $14.3 trillion. Based on the 2010 United States federal
Our spending has caught up with us, and our debt soon will eclipse the entire size of our national economy. [SEP] National debt of the United States // could not be sustained indefinitely. By 2039, the deficit would equal 6.5 percent of GDP, larger than in any year between 1947 and 2008, and federal debt held by the public would reach 106 percent of GDP, more than in any year except 1946—even without factoring in the economic effects of growing debt. The "extended alternative fiscal scenario" assumes the continuation of present trends, which result in a more unfavorable debt position and adverse economic consequences relative to the baseline scenario. The CBO reported in July 2014 that under this scenario: [C]ertain policies that are now in place but are
Our spending has caught up with us, and our debt soon will eclipse the entire size of our national economy. [SEP] National debt of the United States // under the extended baseline with economic feedback, and that interest rates would be about three-quarters of a percentage point higher. Reflecting the budgetary effects of those economic developments, federal debt would rise to 183 percent of GDP in 2039. Over the long-term, the CBO projects that interest expense and mandatory spending categories (e.g., Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security) will continue to grow relative to GDP, while discretionary categories (e.g., Defense and other Cabinet Departments) continue to fall relative to GDP. Debt is projected to continue rising relative to GDP under the above two scenarios, although the CBO did also offer
Our spending has caught up with us, and our debt soon will eclipse the entire size of our national economy. [SEP] National debt of the United States // measure of the total size and output of the economy. One measure of the debt burden is its size relative to GDP, called the "debt-to-GDP ratio." Mathematically, this is the debt divided by the GDP amount. The Congressional Budget Office includes historical budget and debt tables along with its annual "Budget and Economic Outlook." Debt held by the public as a percentage of GDP rose from 34.7% GDP in 2000 to 40.5% in 2008 and 67.7% in 2011. Mathematically, the ratio can decrease even while debt grows if the rate of increase in GDP (which also takes account of inflation)
France's coronavirus death rate accelerates, cases near 100,000. [SEP] Coronavirus // 2013, a case of contamination from human to human in France was confirmed by the French Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. In addition, cases of person-to-person transmission have been reported by the Ministry of Health in Tunisia. Two confirmed cases seem to have caught the disease from their late father, who became ill after a visit to Qatar and Saudi Arabia. By Oct. 30 2013, there were 124 cases and 52 deaths in Saudi Arabia. After the Dutch Erasmus Medical Centre sequenced the virus, the virus was given a new name, Human Corona Virus-Erasmus Medical Centre (HCoV-EMC). The final
France's coronavirus death rate accelerates, cases near 100,000. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // the same room as the first patient was confirmed by French Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. France reported its first death from MERS near the end of May 2013. On 28 May 2013, a report by the Associated Press said a French patient died of the novel coronavirus related to SARS. Fifty percent of those infected have died. On 20 April 2014, Greece reported its first MERS-CoV case. The infected individual was a 69-year-old Greek male who had returned to Greece on April 17 from Saudi Arabia. People with close contact with the infected man were identified and are
France's coronavirus death rate accelerates, cases near 100,000. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // United Kingdom, France, Germany, and the United Arab Emirates. According to a European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) publication, on April 2014, Tunisia had a total of 3 cases with 1 fatality. In May 2015, the first case in South Korea was confirmed in a man who had visited several Middle Eastern countries. As of 16 June 2015, a total of 150 cases has been infected, including 18 deaths, according to the World Health Organization (WHO). As of 29 June 2015, 32 people in South Korea have died from this outbreak, with 182 confirmed cases of infection. There
France's coronavirus death rate accelerates, cases near 100,000. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // MERS had infected at least 60 people with cases reported in Jordan, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates (UAE), Tunisia, Germany, the United Kingdom (UK), France and Italy, with a death toll of 38. Saudi officials expressed great concern that millions of Muslims from around the world would potentially be exposed to the virus during the autumn Hajj, or pilgrimage to Mecca. In May 2014, the WHO said it was monitoring the situation as global cases of MERS appeared to be on the rise, but said the situation did not yet constitute a health emergency. On 3 June 2014,
France's coronavirus death rate accelerates, cases near 100,000. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // Saudi Arabia revised the country's total cases of MERS to date to 688 cases after re-examining the data as part of an effort to better understand the disease. A total of 282 people had died from MERS. The numbers represented a jump of 113 cases and 92 deaths. Despite the jump in reported cases, the number of new cases was on the decline according to Tariq Madany, head of the medical advisory council. At the same time, the Saudi deputy health minister was fired, the second high level health official fired within two months. On 4 June 2014, a study
France's coronavirus death rate accelerates, cases near 100,000. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // 73 to 85 years, but they have all chronic diseases." With this announcement, the unofficial global case count reached 49 while the death toll stands at 24 according to the CDC. As of 26 June 34 deaths have been recorded in the kingdom. On 1 August 2013, the World Health Organization announced three new MERS-CoV cases in that Saudi Arabia, all of them in women, two of whom were healthcare workers. "With the three new cases, Saudi Arabia's posted MERS tally increases to 74 cases with 39 deaths. The cases raise the WHO's MERS count to 94 cases and 46
France's coronavirus death rate accelerates, cases near 100,000. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // and from that family at least one additional person presented similar symptoms but tested negative for the novel coronavirus. On 21 February 2013, WHO stated that there had been 13 laboratory-confirmed cases, 6 cases (4 fatal) from Saudi Arabia, 2 cases (both fatal) from Jordan, 2 cases from Qatar, and 3 from the UK. In March 2013, the Saudi Arabia Ministry of Health reported the death of a 39-year-old man, the 15th case and 9th death reported to WHO. On 2 May 2013, the Saudi Ministry of Health announced five people died and two other people were in critical condition
France's coronavirus death rate accelerates, cases near 100,000. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // deaths." On 31 October 2013, the WHO announced that three patients in Saudi Arabia died of MERS. The patients were one woman and two men and "all had underlying medical conditions but all reported having had no contact with animals before falling ill". Early of 23 April 2014, 11 new cases including a first case for Mecca were reported by the Health Ministry. An additional 13 cases were reported on the same day. With the additional reported cases, there are now a total of 285 cases with 83 deaths in the Kingdom. A hospital-related outbreak in Riyadh brought the total
France's coronavirus death rate accelerates, cases near 100,000. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // Saudi Arabia. In the latest cluster of infections, 15 cases had been confirmed, and nine of those patients had died. Ten of the 22 people who died and 22 of 44 cases reported were in Saudi Arabia. An unconfirmed case in another Saudi citizen, for which no clinical information was available, was also reported around this time. On 22 September 2012, the Saudi Ministry of Health (MOH) announced that the two cases involving Saudi citizens, caused by what they termed a "rare pattern of coronavirus," had both proven fatal. Two of the Saudi Arabia cases were from the same family
France's coronavirus death rate accelerates, cases near 100,000. [SEP] 2012 Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus outbreak // a nurse who came in contact with the deceased patient are suspected to have contracted the disease. The victim's son-in-law is also reported to have been infected. According to Dr. Gooya, the infection of 1 out of the 3 suspected patients is confirmed and more tests are under way to determine the situation of the other two patients. On 7 May 2013, a case was confirmed in Nord departement of France in a man who had previously traveled to Dubai, United Arab Emirates. On 12 May 2013, in a case of human to human transmission, a man previously hospitalized in
$150K grant will help unravel mysterious panther illness. [SEP] African trypanosomiasis // $1.02 billion US dollars towards the neglected disease discovery efforts. For kinetoplastid infections specifically, they have donated an average of $28.15 million US dollars annually between the years 2007 to 2011. They have labeled human African trypanosomiasis a high-opportunity target meaning it is a disease that presents the greatest opportunity for control, elimination, and eradication, through the development of new drugs, vaccines, public-health programs, and diagnostics. They are the second highest funding source for neglected diseases, immediately behind the US National Institutes of Health. At a time where public funding is decreasing and government grants for scientific research are harder
$150K grant will help unravel mysterious panther illness. [SEP] African trypanosomiasis // yearly. For kinetoplastid infections, the total global research and development funding was approximately $136.3 million in 2012. Each of the three diseases, African sleeping sickness, Chagas' disease, and Leishmaniasis each received approximately a third of the funding, which was about $36.8 million US dollars, $38.7 million US dollars, and $31.7 million US dollars, respectively. For sleeping sickness, funding was split into basic research, drug discovery, vaccines, and diagnostics. The greatest amount of funding was directed towards basic research of the disease; approximately $21.6 million US dollars was directed towards that effort. As for therapeutic development, approximately $10.9 million was invested.
$150K grant will help unravel mysterious panther illness. [SEP] Michelson Prize and Grants in Reproductive Biology // Michelson Prize and Grants in Reproductive Biology Michelson Prize and Grants for Reproductive Biology makes $75 million (USD) available for research in pursuit of a safe and effective, single dose, non-surgical sterilant for male and female cats and dogs. The grants provide approximately $250,000 per year per grant for research pursuing approaches to non-surgical sterilization technology for companion animals. The prize was established in October 2008 by the Found Animals Foundation, a 501(c)(3), non-profit organization dedicated to minimizing shelter euthanasia. It focuses on developing cost-effective, scalable, and sustainable animal welfare business models. Funded by Dr. Gary K. Michelson, an orthopedic
$150K grant will help unravel mysterious panther illness. [SEP] The Grand Challenges in Global Health // Committee of the scientific board and staff members from FNIH and BMGF reviewed the projects to move into the negotiations for grants. In May 2005, The Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation gave an additional $250 million to fund research for the initiative, bringing the foundation's commitment to $450 million. In June 2005, the initiative announced grants for 43 new projects, attracting international partners. Today, the work towards revolutionary advances in global health continues. 44 separate research projects are currently being managed, and solving even one of the 14 challenges could potentially improve the lives of millions. Goal 1: Improve Vaccines
$150K grant will help unravel mysterious panther illness. [SEP] Dravet Syndrome Foundation // 19 researchers DSF invested in through 2015, 6 of them went on to receive large NIH grants, for a return rate of 32%. Research Awards can be broken down in the following categories for total funding of $3,698,000: SUDEP - $300,000; Gene Therapy - $703,000; Drug Discovery, Screening, or Treatment - $1,063,000; Genetics - $714,000; Epidemiology -$273,000; Neuronal Network - $345,000; Other - $300,000 Dravet Syndrome Foundation The Dravet Syndrome Foundation (DSF) is a volunteer run, non-profit organization based in the United States. The mission of the foundation is to raise research funds for Dravet's syndrome and related epilepsies, while
$150K grant will help unravel mysterious panther illness. [SEP] Henipavirus // NSW governments will boost research funding into the Hendra virus by $6 million to be spent by 2014–2015. This money will be used for research into ecological drivers of infection in the bats and the mechanism of virus transmission between bats and other species. A further 6 million dollars was allocated by the federal government with the funds being split, half for human health investigations and half for animal health and biodiversity research. Three main approaches are currently followed to reduce the risk to humans. Flying foxes experimentally infected with the Hendra virus develop a viraemia then excrete the virus
$150K grant will help unravel mysterious panther illness. [SEP] Morris Animal Foundation // Foundation has invested more than $118 million toward more than 2,600 studies to improve the health and quality of life for dogs, cats, horses and wildlife around the world. These studies have led to better preventions, diagnostic tools, treatment protocols and even cures for animal diseases and other health challenges. They also provide critical funding to aspiring researchers in animal health fields, including support for two- and four-year training programs for post-doctoral students and a Scholars Program which allows veterinary students to do research early in their careers. The foundation has awarded over 400 grants to various veterinary students, at
$150K grant will help unravel mysterious panther illness. [SEP] Panthera Corporation // in international wildlife practice. The organization also awards a number of grants to support promising field conservationists. These grant programs include the Kaplan Graduate Awards, the Research and Conservation Grants, the Small Cat Action Fund, and the Liz Claiborne Art Ortenberg Jaguar Small Grants. Panthera was founded by American entrepreneur Thomas S. Kaplan; he serves as its executive chairman. Alan Rabinowitz is the CEO. He started the world's first jaguar preserve in 1986, in Belize. and was the main driving force behind the Jaguar Corridor that connects Mexico and Argentina. Michael Cline serves as a director and chairman of Tigers
$150K grant will help unravel mysterious panther illness. [SEP] Neglected tropical disease research and development // Foundation is launching a competition for high speed, point-of-care diagnostics for tuberculosis. A more widely defined annual "Global Health EnterPrize" for neglected tropical diseases has been proposed to reward health innovators, particularly those based in countries where NTDs represent a serious health burden. The Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation offers the Grand Challenges Explorations Opportunities on a rolling basis. This grant program allows individuals from any organization or background to apply to address priority global health issues. Each project award is $100,000 dollars and is drawn from a Foundation funding pool of $100 million. Awardees have tended to offer research
$150K grant will help unravel mysterious panther illness. [SEP] Jon Blais // reaching eligibility for her first Ironman event in 2011. The San Francisco athlete said the disease hit home with her in 2009 when a beloved basketball coach was diagnosed with ALS. Research funding from the foundation has been awarded to Wake Forest University Baptist Medical Center ($11,300 in 2011), Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine ($400,000 committed through 2012 ), and the University of Maryland, where the organization will be supporting the university's Brain and Tissue Bank in setting up a program for ALS patients to donate their tissue postmortem for research. Jon Blais Jon Blais (August 30, 1971 –
Merck says thousands file for Vioxx payments. [SEP] Merck & Co. // market, and it publicly announced the withdrawal on September 30. An analysis for the period 1999-2004, based on U.S. Medical Expenditure Survey data, reported that Vioxx was associated with 46,783 heart attacks, and along with the other popular COX-2 inhibitor Celebrex, an estimated 26,603 deaths from both. About 50,000 people sued Merck, claiming they or their family members had suffered medical problems such as heart attacks or strokes after taking Vioxx. In November 2007, Merck agreed to pay $4.85 billion to settle most of the pending Vioxx lawsuits. The settlement required that claimants provide medical and pharmacy records confirming the
Merck says thousands file for Vioxx payments. [SEP] Rofecoxib // million in punitive damages. The same jury found Merck not liable for the heart attack of 60-year-old Thomas Cona, a second plaintiff in the trial, but was liable for fraud in the sale of the drug to Cona. In March 2010, an Australian class-action lawsuit against Merck ruled that Vioxx doubled the risk of heart attacks, and that Merck had breached the Trade Practices Act by selling a drug which was unfit for sale. By November 2007 Merck announced that it agreed on a mass tort settlement of $4.85 billion between Merck and the lawyers of 27,000 individual lawsuits with
Merck says thousands file for Vioxx payments. [SEP] Rofecoxib // subject include "The Vioxx Litigation: A Critical Look at Trial Tactics, the Tort System, and the Roles of Lawyers in Mass Tort Litigation" and "10 Years of Tort Reform in Texas Bring Fewer Suits, Lower Payouts." In November 2011, Merck announced a civil settlement with the US Attorney's Office for the District of Massachusetts, and individually with 43 US states and the District of Columbia, to resolve civil claims relating to Vioxx. Under the terms of the settlement, Merck agreed to pay two-thirds of a previously recorded $950 million reserve charge in exchange for release from civil liability. Litigation with
Merck says thousands file for Vioxx payments. [SEP] Merck & Co. // occurrence of a heart attack, ischemic stroke, or sudden cardiac death; the receipt of at least 30 Vioxx pills within 60 days prior to the injury or death; and confirmation of Vioxx being used within 14 days of the Vioxx-related event. The settlement was generally viewed by industry analysts and investors as a victory for Merck, considering that original estimates of Merck's liability reached between $10 billion and $25 billion. In fact, as of mid-2008, when the plaintiff class had reached the threshold percentage required by Merck to go through with the settlement, plaintiffs had prevailed in only three of
Merck says thousands file for Vioxx payments. [SEP] Merck & Co. // the twenty cases that had reached juries, all with relatively small awards.. Merck has refused to consider compensation for Vioxx victims and their families outside the US. This is particularly true in the UK where there are at least 400 victims and the legal protection afforded to the victims and their families is particularly weak. According to internal e-mail traffic released at a later lawsuit, Merck had a list of doctors critical of Vioxx to be "neutralized" or "discredited". "We may need to seek them out and destroy them where they live," wrote an employee. A Stanford Medical School professor
Merck says thousands file for Vioxx payments. [SEP] Merck & Co. // rebates to Medicaid and other health care programs and paid illegal remuneration to health care providers. On February 7, 2008 Merck agreed to pay more than $650 million to settle charges that it routinely overbilled Medicaid for its most popular medicines. The settlement was one of the largest pharmaceutical settlements in history. The federal government received more than $360 million, plus 49 states and Washington, DC, received over $290 million. One whistleblower received a $68 million reward. Merck made the settlement without an admission of liability or wrongdoing. Merck & Co. once used methylene chloride, an animal carcinogen on the
Merck says thousands file for Vioxx payments. [SEP] W. Mark Lanier // eventually be sued by thousands of consumers claiming to have suffered heart attacks and strokes because of the drug. Lanier argued that Merck continued to market the drug, despite knowing about its negative side effects. The case was eventually decided in Ernst's favor, with Lanier securing a $253 million verdict. Later, Lanier obtained consumer fraud findings against Merck, who was found to have misled doctors and patients by concealing information about Vioxx and its risks. Lanier has taken on several lawsuits against Johnson & Johnson and DePuy Synthes, which Johnson & Johnson acquired in 1998. The lawsuits allege that DePuy
Merck says thousands file for Vioxx payments. [SEP] Rofecoxib // to operate honestly throughout the process. Any mistakes that were made regarding the mishandling of clinical trial results and withholding of information was the result of oversight, not malicious behavior. The Martin Report did conclude that the Merck's marketing team exaggerated the safety of Vioxx and replaced truthful information with sales tactics. The report was published in February 2006, and Merck was satisfied with the findings of the report and promised to consider the recommendations contained in the Martin Report. By March 2006, there were over 10,000 cases and 190 class actions filed against Merck over adverse cardiovascular events associated
Merck says thousands file for Vioxx payments. [SEP] Rofecoxib // increased risk of heart attack and stroke associated with long-term, high-dosage use. Merck withdrew the drug after disclosures that it withheld information about rofecoxib's risks from doctors and patients for over five years, resulting in between 88,000 and 140,000 cases of serious heart disease. Rofecoxib was one of the most widely used drugs ever to be withdrawn from the market. In the year before withdrawal, Merck had sales revenue of US$2.5 billion from Vioxx. Merck reserved $970 million to pay for its Vioxx-related legal expenses through 2007, and has set aside $4.85bn for legal claims from US citizens. Rofecoxib was
Merck says thousands file for Vioxx payments. [SEP] Merck & Co. // year. Vioxx became one of the most prescribed drugs in history. Thereafter, studies by Merck and by others found an increased risk of heart attack associated with Vioxx use when compared with naproxen. Merck adjusted the labeling of Vioxx to reflect possible cardiovascular risks in 2002. On September 23, 2004, Merck received information about results from a clinical trial it was conducting that included findings of increased risk of heart attacks among Vioxx users who had been using the medication for over eighteen months. On September 28, 2004, Merck notified the FDA that it was voluntarily withdrawing Vioxx from the
Literally lousy: Parasite plagues world salmon industry. [SEP] Fish disease and parasites // Adult salmon may survive otherwise critical numbers of sea lice, but small, thin-skinned juvenile salmon migrating to sea are highly vulnerable. On the Pacific coast of Canada, the louse-induced mortality of pink salmon in some regions is commonly over 80%. In 1972, Gyrodactylus salaris, also called salmon fluke, a monogenean parasite, spread from Norwegian hatcheries to wild salmon, and devastated some wild salmon populations. In 1984, infectious salmon anemia (ISAv) was discovered in Norway in an Atlantic salmon hatchery. Eighty percent of the fish in the outbreak died. ISAv, a viral disease, is now a major threat to the viability
Literally lousy: Parasite plagues world salmon industry. [SEP] Sea louse // salmonis" characterized by epithelial hyperplasia and inflammation. This results in rejection of the parasite within the first week of infection in these species of salmonids. Heavy infections of farmed Atlantic salmon and wild sockeye salmon ("Oncorhynchus nerka") by "L. salmonis" can lead to deep lesions, particularly on the head region, even exposing the skull. Some evidence indicates that sea lice flourishing on salmon farms can spread to nearby wild juvenile salmon and devastate these populations. Sea lice, particularly "L. salmonis" and various "Caligus" species, including "C. clemensi" and "C. rogercresseyi", can cause deadly infestations of both farm-grown and wild salmon.
Literally lousy: Parasite plagues world salmon industry. [SEP] Salmon louse // Salmon louse The salmon louse, Lepeophtheirus salmonis, is a species of copepod in the genus "Lepeophtheirus". It is a sea louse, a parasite living mostly on salmon, particularly on Pacific and Atlantic salmon and sea trout, but is also sometimes found on the three-spined stickleback. It lives off the mucus, skin and blood of the fish. They are natural marine parasites of fish such as adult salmon. Once detached they can be blown by wind across the surface of the sea, like plankton. When they encounter a suitable marine fish host they may adhere themselves to the skin, fins, the
Literally lousy: Parasite plagues world salmon industry. [SEP] Sea louse // been a condition of tenure license for farm operators. Many sea louse species are specific with regard to host genera, for example "L. salmonis" which has high specificity for salmonids, including the widely farmed Atlantic salmon ("Salmo salar"). "Lepeophtheirus salmonis" can parasitize other salmonids to varying degrees, including brown trout (sea trout: "Salmo trutta"), Arctic char ("Salvelinus alpinus"), and all species of Pacific salmon. In the case of Pacific salmon, coho, chum, and pink salmon ("Oncorhynchus kisutch", "O. keta", and "O. gorbuscha", respectively) mount strong tissue responses to attaching "L. salmonis", which lead to rejection within the first week of
Literally lousy: Parasite plagues world salmon industry. [SEP] Salmon louse // attached to the abdomen. The salmon louse uses its feet to move around on the host or to swim from one host to another. This parasite is one of the major threats to salmon farmers. Salmon are stocked usually for a 14 - 18 month cycle. Salmon farms are an unusual, but ideal environment for the sea lice to breed. The infestations of sea lice in salmon farms increases the number of lice in the rest of the surrounding water dramatically if the eggs from the gravid louse are allowed to disperse. Sea lice can also affect juvenile salmon while
Literally lousy: Parasite plagues world salmon industry. [SEP] Diseases and parasites in salmon // concentrations of sea lice; when exposed in river estuaries containing large numbers of open-net farms, many young wild salmon are infected, and do not survive as a result. Adult salmon may survive otherwise critical numbers of sea lice, but small, thin-skinned juvenile salmon migrating to sea are highly vulnerable. On the Pacific coast of Canada, the louse-induced mortality of pink salmon in some regions is commonly over 80%. In 1972, "Gyrodactylus", a monogenean parasite, spread from Norwegian hatcheries to wild salmon, and devastated some wild salmon populations. Enteric redmouth disease is a bacterial infection of freshwater and marine fish caused
Literally lousy: Parasite plagues world salmon industry. [SEP] Salmon louse // £300m in control efforts. In small numbers, salmon lice cause little damage to a fish although if populations increase on a fish, this can lead to death. The parasites can cause physical damage to the fish's fins, skin erosion, constant bleeding, and open wounds creating pathways for other pathogens. The sea lice may also act as a vector for diseases between wild and farmed salmon. These copepod vectors has caused infectious salmon anemia (ISA) along the Atlantic coast. An outbreak of ISA occurred in Chile during 2007 where it spread quickly from one farm to another, destroying the salmon farms.
Literally lousy: Parasite plagues world salmon industry. [SEP] Salmon louse // salmon from the rivers migrating to the ocean if on the way they pass by fish farms, the early stage and mature stages of sea lice may attaches onto them as well. These young salmon are smaller than a size of a key and still developing. When sea lice attach to the young salmon they can kill them. The Salmon louse currently infests nearly half of Scotland’s salmon farms. In 2016 Guardian news stated that the lice killed thousands of tonnes of farmed fish, caused skin lesions and secondary infections in millions more, and cost the Scottish salmon industry around
Literally lousy: Parasite plagues world salmon industry. [SEP] Sea louse // ectoparasites of farmed and wild Atlantic salmon. Several antiparasitic drugs have been developed for control purposes. "L. salmonis" is the best understood in the areas of its biology and interactions with its salmon host. "Caligus rogercresseyi" has become a major parasite of concern on salmon farms in Chile, and studies are under way to gain a better understanding of the parasite and the host-parasite interactions. Recent evidence is also emerging that "L. salmonis" in the Atlantic has sufficient genetic differences from "L. salmonis" from the Pacific to suggest that Atlantic and Pacific "L. salmonis" may have independently co-evolved with Atlantic
Literally lousy: Parasite plagues world salmon industry. [SEP] Salmon louse // combat salmon lice infection. The intensity of inflammatory response controls how fast the parasites are rejected from the body. Intensity is determined by recognition of and regulation by salmon lice secretory/excretory products (SEP), which includes proteases and prostaglandin E2. The marine parasite secretes SEP into the damaged skin of the salmon which inhibits proteolytic activity. Proteolytic activity increases the amount of host peptides and amino acids that can be used as a source of nutrition and lowers the intensity of inflammatory responses. Salmon louse The salmon louse, Lepeophtheirus salmonis, is a species of copepod in the genus "Lepeophtheirus". It is
Citizens Property Insurance has "over $500 billion worth of risk, with less than $10 billion worth of surplus. [SEP] Citizens Property Insurance Corporation // Fidelity Property & Casualty can remove 10,000 each. Private insurers have taken out more than 312,000 Citizens policies this year. [Citizens] President Barry Gilway has said the goal is to trim Citizens down to about 800,000 policies." As of April 2014, Citizen policies fell below one million, to 940,000. Cash reserves totaled $7.6 billion, a record. Since the 2005 pull back by insurance giants Allstate, State Farm, etc., small, in-state companies have been taking a larger share of policies. These start-ups have not followed the traditional insurance model by accumulating cash reserves to cover expenses in high claim years. Instead,
Citizens Property Insurance has "over $500 billion worth of risk, with less than $10 billion worth of surplus. [SEP] Citizens Property Insurance Corporation // age of structure, and construction type". Florida House Bill 1495, passed in 2009, allows Citizens to raise rates gradually over five years to become actuarially sound. This was intended to shift the risk from taxpayers to the private sector. In the spring of 2012, Florida Governor Rick Scott stated in a survey with the Florida Council of 100 that Citizens Insurance had $504.8 billion in risk and just $6.1 billion in cash reserves. PolitiFact Florida, a fact checker of the Tampa Bay Times and Miami Herald, researched Scott's claims. They concluded that while the company did have $500 billion in
Citizens Property Insurance has "over $500 billion worth of risk, with less than $10 billion worth of surplus. [SEP] Citizens Property Insurance Corporation // exposure, storms would have to damage or destroy every Citizens-insured home in all 67 Florida counties. A "century storm", with a 1% chance of occurring in any year, would generate no more than $21 billion in claims. Regarding the resources available to pay claims, the Citizen's own website states that their "Claims‐Paying Ability" is $19.5 billion. There is a $1.5 billion disparity, prompting the governor to order Citizens to reduce its risk. Barry Gilway was hired on June 18, 2012 as President and Chief Executive Officer of Citizens Property Insurance Corporation, replacing Tom Grady. With 42 years of experience in
Citizens Property Insurance has "over $500 billion worth of risk, with less than $10 billion worth of surplus. [SEP] Citizens Property Insurance Corporation // major hurricanes during that time frame. Florida taxpayers were forced to cover $400 million in losses. Despite concerns about the OIR, "State regulators have approved six property insurers to remove up to 151,000 policies from state-run Citizens Property Insurance Corp. in February [2014]. [...] Florida's Office of Insurance Regulation last month approved First Community Insurance Co. to take out as many as 51,249 Citizens policies, while Safepoint Insurance Co. may remove up to 40,000 policies. Elements Property Insurance Co. and Heritage Property Casualty Insurance Co. each have been approved for up to 20,000 policies. Southern Fidelity Insurance Co. and Southern
Citizens Property Insurance has "over $500 billion worth of risk, with less than $10 billion worth of surplus. [SEP] Citizens Property Insurance Corporation // 3.5 million Florida homes in 2010. That same year, Japan-based Tokio Millennium Re Ltd. became an approved Florida reinsurance vendor. As of 2011, Citizens had cash and investment totaling $11.3 billion and 1.3 million policyholders. The Florida Council of 100 published a position paper in 2010 entitled, ""Into the Storm: Framing Florida's Looming Property Insurance Crisis"". Chief among problems identified was that Citizens Insurance was undercapitalized and charges "rates that are not actuarially sound". The study also found that low-risk property owners were subsidizing high risk policies. They concluded that rates must be based on risk factors, including "geographical location,
Citizens Property Insurance has "over $500 billion worth of risk, with less than $10 billion worth of surplus. [SEP] Citizens Property Insurance Corporation // FWUA were close to shifting most of their 711,000 policies to private insurers. In 2002, the Florida Legislature passed legislation to merge the Florida Residential Property and Casualty Joint Underwriting Association (FRPCJUA) and the Florida Windstorm Underwriting Association (FWUA). This resulted in the creation of Citizens Property Insurance Corporation (Citizens), whose goal is to more efficiently and effectively provide insurance to, and serve the needs of, home-owners in high-risk areas and others who cannot find coverage in the open, private insurance market. There were four major storms in 2004 that made landfall in Florida, with total damages exceeding $57 billion.
Citizens Property Insurance has "over $500 billion worth of risk, with less than $10 billion worth of surplus. [SEP] Citizens Property Insurance Corporation // over by the state, who paid off remaining claims. As the 2013 season started, pressure on insurers to lower rates was high because reinsurance costs fell by 15% since 2012, which also had lower costs. Claim expenses were down thanks to seven years without a major hurricane, and rate hikes during those years increased revenue from premiums. Citizens Property Insurance Corporation Citizens Property Insurance Corporation (Citizens) was created in 2002 from the merger of two other entities to provide both windstorm coverage and general property insurance for home-owners who could not obtain insurance elsewhere. It was established by the Florida
Citizens Property Insurance has "over $500 billion worth of risk, with less than $10 billion worth of surplus. [SEP] Citizens Property Insurance Corporation // The following year brought five major storms, including Katrina, the most expensive Atlantic hurricane of all time. Once again, several companies pulled out of the Florida market due to an extraordinary number of hurricane and new sinkhole related claims. Citizens became not just the insurer of last resort, but the insurer of only resort for many Floridians. As of 2005, Florida owed almost $5 billion, which would be recovered through insurance policy assessments. The cost of insurance and its availability became an important "hot button" issue in Florida, especially in the 2006 elections. Through 2006, Citizens Insurance charged its customers
Citizens Property Insurance has "over $500 billion worth of risk, with less than $10 billion worth of surplus. [SEP] Citizens Property Insurance Corporation // Citizens Property Insurance Corporation Citizens Property Insurance Corporation (Citizens) was created in 2002 from the merger of two other entities to provide both windstorm coverage and general property insurance for home-owners who could not obtain insurance elsewhere. It was established by the Florida Legislature in Section 627.351(6) of Florida Statutes as a not-for-profit insurer of last resort, headquartered in Tallahassee, Florida, and quickly became the largest insurer in the state. The company has no connection to Louisiana Citizens Property Insurance Corporation, the equivalent entity in Louisiana, or several similarly named "for-profit" subsidiaries in the Hanover Insurance Group. Hurricane Andrew in
Citizens Property Insurance has "over $500 billion worth of risk, with less than $10 billion worth of surplus. [SEP] Citizens Property Insurance Corporation // 1992 was the costliest storm the United States had experienced, with $26.5 billion in damage. It took a huge bite out of the reserves for claims held by 30 insurance companies doing business in Florida. Eleven insurance companies were bankrupted, while others stopped writing or renewing property insurance policies in the state. Those that remained raised premiums and deductibles across the board and limited the number of high-risk policies they wrote. Almost 1 million coastal homeowners were unable to find any company willing to insure their homes, so the Florida Legislature authorized the formation of the Florida Residential Property and
Eighty-five percent of every dollar donated to the Clinton Foundation ended up either with the Clintons or with their staff to pay for travel, salaries, and benefits. Fifteen cents of every dollar actually went to some charitable beneficiary. [SEP] Clinton Foundation // officer Craig Minassian explained that it is a "false choice to suggest that people who may be interested in supporting political causes wouldn’t also support philanthropic work." A subsequent "Washington Post" inquiry into donations by foreign governments to the Clinton Foundation during the Secretary's tenure found, in addition to six cases where such governments continued making donations at the same level they had before Clinton became Secretary as envisioned under the agreement, one instance of a new donation, $500,000 from Algeria for earthquake relief in Haiti, that was outside the bounds of the continuation provision and should have received a
Eighty-five percent of every dollar donated to the Clinton Foundation ended up either with the Clintons or with their staff to pay for travel, salaries, and benefits. Fifteen cents of every dollar actually went to some charitable beneficiary. [SEP] Clinton Foundation // from foreign governments once Secretary Clinton's tenure had ended. Contributions from foreign donors, which are prohibited by law from contributing to political candidates in the U.S., constitute a major portion of the foundation's income. A "Washington Post" investigation in 2014 showed that there was "substantial overlap between the Clinton political machinery and the foundation". The investigation revealed that almost half of the major donors who had backed Ready for Hillary, a group which supported her 2016 presidency bid, had given at least $10,000 to the foundation, either personally or through foundations or companies they run. The Clinton Foundation's chief communications
Eighty-five percent of every dollar donated to the Clinton Foundation ended up either with the Clintons or with their staff to pay for travel, salaries, and benefits. Fifteen cents of every dollar actually went to some charitable beneficiary. [SEP] Clinton Foundation–State Department controversy // a controversial story based on logs of meetings Clinton took as Secretary of State. In the story, the AP stated that at least 85 of 154 people from private interests that Clinton met or had phone conversations with while Secretary of State donated to the Clinton Foundation. In total, the 85 donors contributed as much as $156 million to the Foundation. The AP described the number as an "extraordinary proportion indicating her possible ethics challenges if elected president". The AP promoted its story with a tweet claiming that "more than half those who met Clinton as Cabinet secretary gave money
Eighty-five percent of every dollar donated to the Clinton Foundation ended up either with the Clintons or with their staff to pay for travel, salaries, and benefits. Fifteen cents of every dollar actually went to some charitable beneficiary. [SEP] Hillary Clinton // large donations from foreign citizens who were sometimes linked to their governments. She began work on another volume of memoirs and made appearances on the paid speaking circuit. There she received $200,000–225,000 per engagement, often appearing before Wall Street firms or at business conventions. She also made some unpaid speeches on behalf of the foundation. For the fifteen months ending in March 2015, Clinton earned over $11 million from her speeches. For the overall period 2007–14, the Clintons earned almost $141 million, paid some $56 million in federal and state taxes and donated about $15 million to charity. , she
Eighty-five percent of every dollar donated to the Clinton Foundation ended up either with the Clintons or with their staff to pay for travel, salaries, and benefits. Fifteen cents of every dollar actually went to some charitable beneficiary. [SEP] Clinton Foundation // been confused with the Clinton Family Foundation, which is reserved for the Clintons' private philanthropy. The two foundations have sometimes been conflated by news sources. The significantly smaller Clinton Family Foundation is a traditional private foundation that serves as the vehicle for their personal charitable giving. Headquartered in Chappaqua, New York, it received nearly all of the approximately $14 million the Clintons gave to charity from 2007–13. Around 2007, the Clinton Foundation was criticized for a lack of transparency. Although U.S. law did not require charities, including presidential foundations, to disclose the identities of their contributors, critics said that the
Eighty-five percent of every dollar donated to the Clinton Foundation ended up either with the Clintons or with their staff to pay for travel, salaries, and benefits. Fifteen cents of every dollar actually went to some charitable beneficiary. [SEP] Clinton Foundation // Clinton was Secretary of State. The foundation has been criticized for receiving donations from Middle-Eastern countries which are seen to oppress women (stoning for adultery, not being able to drive, requiring a male guardian, etc.). These countries include Saudi Arabia ($10–25 million), UAE, and Qatar. The foundation accepted these donations even though Hillary Clinton's 2016 Presidential campaign platform guaranteed to break down barriers that held women back. In November 2016, Reuters reported that "The Clinton Foundation has confirmed it accepted a $1 million gift from Qatar while Hillary Clinton was U.S. Secretary of State without informing the State Department, even
Eighty-five percent of every dollar donated to the Clinton Foundation ended up either with the Clintons or with their staff to pay for travel, salaries, and benefits. Fifteen cents of every dollar actually went to some charitable beneficiary. [SEP] Clinton Foundation–State Department controversy // State, the Clinton Foundation accepted several million dollars in donations from seven foreign governments, in compliance with the MOU it had signed with the State Department. One donation of $500,000 from Algeria to the Clinton Foundation's Haiti relief fund was found to have not been vetted by the State Department, in violation of Clinton’s agreement with the administration. The "Post" noted that the donation "coincided with a spike" in lobbying efforts by Algeria of the State Department regarding their human rights record. From 2009–13, the Russian atomic energy agency (Rosatom) acquired Uranium One, a Canadian company with global uranium mining
Eighty-five percent of every dollar donated to the Clinton Foundation ended up either with the Clintons or with their staff to pay for travel, salaries, and benefits. Fifteen cents of every dollar actually went to some charitable beneficiary. [SEP] Clinton Foundation–State Department controversy // UBS's donations to the Clinton Foundation increased significantly. Through 2008, the bank had donated $60,000 cumulatively to the Foundation. By 2014, the total had grown to $600,000. The bank also paid Bill Clinton $1.5 million for a series of question-and-answer sessions with its CEO, which was the top source of corporate speech income for Clinton between 2001 and 2014. A number of emails released by Judicial Watch in August 2016 from Clinton's tenure as Secretary of State included dialogue between Doug Band, an official at the Clinton Foundation and personal aide to Bill Clinton, and top aides of Hillary Clinton.
Eighty-five percent of every dollar donated to the Clinton Foundation ended up either with the Clintons or with their staff to pay for travel, salaries, and benefits. Fifteen cents of every dollar actually went to some charitable beneficiary. [SEP] Clinton Foundation // September 2016, it gave it its highest possible rating, four out of four stars, after its customary review of the Foundation's financial records and tax statements. A different charity monitor, CharityWatch, said that 88% of the foundation's money goes toward its charitable mission and gave the foundation an A rating for 2016. In 2015, based on revenue of $223 million and an expense ratio of 12% the foundation spent in excess of $26 million to complete its mission. The Clinton Foundation is a public organization to which anyone may donate. Due to their similar names, the public foundation has sometimes
Eighty-five percent of every dollar donated to the Clinton Foundation ended up either with the Clintons or with their staff to pay for travel, salaries, and benefits. Fifteen cents of every dollar actually went to some charitable beneficiary. [SEP] Clinton Foundation–State Department controversy // denied that the State Department took any actions based on contributions to the Clinton Foundation. The Clinton Foundation has been praised as a force for good, and condemned as a "slush fund". The fact-checking organization Politifact says it is mostly true that the Clintons take from the foundation no salary, no other money, and no personal benefit. Supporters of the Clintons say that the controversy obscures valuable work done by the foundation. while others assert that the foundation made it possible for donors to gain access to Secretary Clinton, and influence her official actions. In 2016, the Associated Press published
Pakistan psychologists issue conflict health warning. [SEP] Domestic violence in Pakistan // health was also a high prevalence of mental health disorders with anxiety and depression being the most common. In particular, physical violence has long-term, negative psychological impacts on women with stigma against mental health serving as an impediment to treatment. At times, physical violence may cause permanent disfiguration of the body causing physical ailments that lead to a variety of psychological disorders like depression. Furthermore, women are often unable to receive treatment for psychological disorders as mental health within the cultural realm of Pakistan is not considered a health matter. Mental health illiteracy leads to treatment of mental health disorders
Pakistan psychologists issue conflict health warning. [SEP] Gaza Community Mental Health Programme // a variety of psychosocial phenomena. Research papers published in international journals include "The Relations between Traumatic Experiences, Activity, and Cognitive and Emotional Responses Among Palestinian Children," "Relationships between Traumatic Events, Children's Gender, and Political Activity, and Perceptions of Parenting Styles," "Home Demolition and Mental Health: Victims and Witnesses," and "Mental Health of Palestinian Women." GCMHP is funded by a consortium of overseas donors including the Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Netherlands, the Rehabilitation and Research Centre for Torture Victims – Denmark (RCT), and the Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency (SIDA). There are
Pakistan psychologists issue conflict health warning. [SEP] Muhammad Ajmal // in the department of Philosophy at Government College. Psychology was not recognised or established as a separate subject. This became his lifelong passion, to introduce and establish psychology in Pakistan, starting with the Government College Lahore. His efforts ultimately yielded results and a separate psychology department was established and he became its first head and professor. He established the first ever counselling center in Pakistan, in his department and established the Lahore Mental Health Society. His popularity increased due to his scholarship and charisma. He was admired and loved by his students because of his enchanting teaching style. He was
Pakistan psychologists issue conflict health warning. [SEP] Tobacco packaging warning messages // 6 months. The health warnings are to be in Urdu and in English. Here are the English versions: 1. WARNING: Protect children. Do not let them breathe your smoke. Ministry of Health. 2. WARNING: Smoking causes mouth and throat cancer. Ministry of Health. 3. WARNING: Quit smoking; live longer life. Ministry of Health. 4. WARNING: Smoking severely harms you and the people around you. Ministry of Health. The warnings shall cover at least 30% on both sides of the packet, and located at the top portions of the face (in Urdu) and back (in English) of the packet. In Paraguay,
Pakistan psychologists issue conflict health warning. [SEP] Children in the military // conflict face a markedly elevated risk of debilitating psychiatric illness, poor literacy and numeracy, and behavioural problems. Research in Palestine and Uganda, for example, has found that more than half of former child soldiers showed symptoms of post-traumatic stress disorder and nearly nine in ten in Uganda screened positive for depressed mood. Researchers in Palestine also found that children exposed to high levels of violence in armed conflict were substantially more likely than other children to exhibit aggression and anti-social behaviour. The combined impact of these effects typically includes a high risk of poverty and lasting unemployment in adulthood. Further
Pakistan psychologists issue conflict health warning. [SEP] Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology and Neuroscience // Medical and Dental Schools of Guy's and St Thomas' Hospitals. Psychiatric geneticist Peter McGuffin was awarded a fellowship at the Institute. The Department of Psychological Medicine, chaired by Professor Ulrike Schmidt, addresses many of the commonest mental disorders which affect adults including depression, anxiety, post traumatic stress disorder, eating disorders, somatoform disorders, and medically unexplained symptoms and syndromes. Its research spans basic science, experimental medicine, epidemiology and public policy. It includes the King's Centre for Military Health Research, led by the Department's former chair, Professor Simon Wessely, and is responsible for studying the psychological impacts of the 2003 Iraq War.
Pakistan psychologists issue conflict health warning. [SEP] Emergency psychiatry // associated with an increased risk of completed suicide or suicide attempts. Mental health professionals in these settings are expected to predict acts of violence patients may commit against themselves (or others), even though the complex factors leading to a suicide can stem from many sources, including psychosocial, biological, interpersonal, anthropological, and religious. These mental health professionals will use any resources available to them to determine risk factors, make an overall assessment, and decide on any necessary treatment. Aggression can be the result of both internal and external factors that create a measurable activation in the autonomic nervous system. This activation
Pakistan psychologists issue conflict health warning. [SEP] Peace psychology // In conflicts one has to distinguish between (overt) positions (e.g., " we don't negotiate with X") and underlying interests (e.g., power, spheres of influence and wealth) as well as between current triggers (e.g., violence at a political protest) and systematic, enduring, structural causes (e.g., deprivation of a group's political participation or access to professional employment). Although conflicts are inevitable and can lead to positive change when dealt with constructively, the escalation of conflicts and in particular the occurrence of violence are preventable. Psychological processes of information processing (attention, perception, memory, thinking, judgment), emotion, and motivation influence substantially how a conflict
Pakistan psychologists issue conflict health warning. [SEP] Healthcare in Pakistan // population, more than 14 million, suffers from mild to moderate psychiatric illness, majority of which are women. The figures probably do not include a large number of people who have never seen a psychiatrist and who strongly deny the need for psychiatric consultation. The incidence and prevalence have both increased tremendously in the background of growing insecurity, terrorism, economical problems, political uncertainty, unemployment, stressful working conditions, gender discrimination, unhealthy lifestyle, physical ill health, genetic factors, unrestricted urbanisation, and disruption of the social fabric and loss of protective family networks. Sinking below poverty line by almost 39% of the individuals is
Pakistan psychologists issue conflict health warning. [SEP] Peace psychology // Nations and the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe [OSCE]). Peace psychology focuses on the psychological aspects of the formation, escalation, reduction, and resolution of conflicts. A conflict exists when the expectations, interests, needs, or actions of at least two parties to the conflict are perceived by at least one of the parties to be incompatible. Peace psychology is mainly concerned with conflicts between social groups (intergroup conflicts, such as between ethnic groups, clans, religious groups, states etc.), in terms of domains like power, wealth, access to raw materials and markets, cultural or religious values, honor, dignity, or recognition.
New regulation requires motorcycle owners to install 75 MPH governor by January 2017 [SEP] Electric bicycle laws // Vehicle Code. New legislation became effective January 2016. The current regulations define an "electric bicycle", a bicycle equipped with fully operable pedals and an electric motor of less than 750 watts, separated into three classes: Beginning January 1, 2017, manufacturers and distributors of electric bicycles will be required to apply a label that is permanently affixed, in a prominent location, to each electric bicycle, indicating its class. Should a user "tamper with or modify" an electric bicycle, changing the speed capability, they must replace the label indicating the classification. Driver's licenses, registration, insurance and license plate requirements do not apply.
New regulation requires motorcycle owners to install 75 MPH governor by January 2017 [SEP] Motorcycle safety // ABS, stopping the motorcycle is both easier and safer, allowing for a shorter stop range and reduced risk of skidding. Accident data from the EU suggest that widespread adoption of ABS could reduce motorcycle fatalities by as much as a third. All motorcycles receiving type approval in the EU were required to have ABS systems available from 1st January 2016 and all new motorcycles with an engine displacement >125cc sold from 2017 onwards are required to have ABS fitted. This followed pressure from the British IAM with support from the FIA. In regions of the world that do not mandate
New regulation requires motorcycle owners to install 75 MPH governor by January 2017 [SEP] Anti-lock braking system // ABS are 37 percent more likely to be involved in fatal crashes and a study of the Swedish Road Administration came to the conclusion that 48 percent of all severe and fatal motorcycle accidents above 125 cm could be avoided due to motorcycle ABS. These studies caused the EU commission to initiate a legislative process in 2010 that was passed in 2012 and led to ABS for motorcycles above 125 cm becoming mandatory from 2016 onwards. Organizations like the Federation International de l’Automobile and the Institute of advanced Motorists (IAM) demanded the implementation of this legislation already for 2015. On
New regulation requires motorcycle owners to install 75 MPH governor by January 2017 [SEP] Speed limiter // with unified European Union licensing regulations. To comply with this, mopeds typically include some method of onboard speed restriction to prevent the machine exceeding the prescribed speed (on a flat road, in still air, with a rider of standard height and weight). Older models such as the Honda C50 used a simple centrifugal governor as part of the transmission, which progressively and severely advanced the ignition as speed rose past a set point, causing engine power to fall off rapidly at higher rpm and road speed, but maintaining the low- and moderate-speed hill climbing ability of the unrestricted version. Other
New regulation requires motorcycle owners to install 75 MPH governor by January 2017 [SEP] Speed limits in the United States by jurisdiction // 2017. The new 75 mph (121 km/h) speed limit doesn't apply to trucks. Trucks will still be limited to 70 mph. (Fact check, this provision was removed from act 1097.) As of October 31, 2017, the speed limit law is being broken into four categories: rural interstates, Urban Interstates, rural divided unlimited access highways, and two lane highways. There are studies being made to increase rural interstate speed limits to 75 mph (121 km/h), urban interstate speed limits to a uniform 65 mph (105 km/h) speed limit, rural divided unlimited access highways to 65 mph (105 km/h) unless the DOT
New regulation requires motorcycle owners to install 75 MPH governor by January 2017 [SEP] Governor (device) // often have a legislated top speed. Scheduled coach services in the United kingdom (and also bus services) are limited to 65 mph. Urban public buses often have speed governors which are typically set to between and . All heavy vehicles in Europe and New Zealand have law/by-law governors that limits their speeds to or . Fire engines and other emergency vehicles are exempt from this requirement. Aircraft propellers are another application. The governor senses shaft RPM, and adjusts or controls the angle of the blades to vary the torque load on the engine. Thus as the aircraft speeds up (as
New regulation requires motorcycle owners to install 75 MPH governor by January 2017 [SEP] Tire code // European Union, tires that are not fit for a car's or motorcycle's particular maximum speed are illegal to mount. The sole exception are M+S tires, where a warning sticker stating the allowed maximum speed must be placed within clear sight of the driver inside the vehicle. Some manufacturers will install a speed governor if a vehicle is ordered with tires rated below the vehicle's maximum speed. In some parts of the European Union, e.g. Germany, it is allowed to mount tires with a lower speed rating code if the car manufacturer specifies tires with a very high speed rating in
New regulation requires motorcycle owners to install 75 MPH governor by January 2017 [SEP] Electric bicycle laws // least 27 inches off the ground. New Brunswick's Policy on Electric Motor Driven Cycles and Electric Bicycles The Registrar will permit an electric motor driven cycle to be registered if it meets Canada Motor Vehicle Safety Standards (CMVSS) as a Limited Speed Motorcycle, or Scooter as is done with gas powered motor driven cycles. If the vehicle was manufactured after 1988 it will bear a compliance label stating that it meets these standards. The operator will be subject to all the requirements placed on operators of motor driven cycles. If the vehicle is able to powered by human force and
New regulation requires motorcycle owners to install 75 MPH governor by January 2017 [SEP] Zero Motorcycles // revised to reduce heat produced during high output. For 2017, all models have the interior-permanent-magnet (IPM) motor. All models also received a larger capacity controller which provides an increase in maximum torque and horsepower output, up to 116 ft/lbs on the SR and DSR models. All models but the S ZF13.0 (Already Installed) receive a wider, high-torque carbon fiber reinforced belt. Other changes for 2017 include a locking tank box and more durable paint on S/DS/SR/DSR models, and the ability for owners to update their bike's firmware through the mobile app. Zero Motorcycles also produces a line of electric motorcycles
New regulation requires motorcycle owners to install 75 MPH governor by January 2017 [SEP] Freeway motorcycling restrictions in East Asia // governments, the amendment permitting red-plate motorcycles on freeways has not been implemented on schedule When the Legislative Yuan amended Article 92 of the Act Governing the Punishment of Violation of Road traffic Regulations on 12 January 2007 and the Executive Yuan ordered on 13 September 2007 to validate that amendment on Thursday, 1 November 2007, a motorcycle with a cylinder capacity of at least 550 cc may be driven on most expressways. While motorcycles are still banned from freeways, the Legislative Yuan has asked the Ministry of Transportation and Communications in 2007 to study the feasibility to allow powerful motorcycles
FDA Panel Backs Novartis Drug For Treating Parkinson’s Dementia [SEP] Tamas Bartfai // for 'heartburn', as a consultant to Roche, the catechol-O-methyltransferase inhibitor (Tasmar-tolcapone) used in Parkinson's Disease, the first benzodiazepine–antagonist (flunitrazepam) for treatment of benzodiazepine overdoses, and as a consultant to Novartis the sphingosine 1-phosphate agonist gilenya-fingolimod as the first oral multiple sclerosis drug. He has also worked on four current drug candidates that as of 2015, are in phase 2 and 3 clinical trials. One of the most promising ones is the amyloid Αβ antibody that the Banner Alzheimer's Institute, Roche and the U.S. government are testing in Colombia for prevention of Alzheimer's disease in a large cohort with a familial
FDA Panel Backs Novartis Drug For Treating Parkinson’s Dementia [SEP] Pimavanserin // people with Parkinson's disease on April 29, 2016. In July 2018 the FDA approved a new capsule dose formulation and tablet strength of pimavanserin to treat hallucinations and delusions associated with Parkinson’s disease psychosis in a 34-mg single capsule formulation. On April 9, 2018, CNN reported that some in the FDA were concerned that Nuplazid was "risky" when it was approved and noted there have been a substantial number of deaths reported by those using the drug. The story further noted that the drug was approved based on a "six-week study of about 200 patients". The FDA began post-market monitoring
FDA Panel Backs Novartis Drug For Treating Parkinson’s Dementia [SEP] Donepezil // Eisai received approval from the United States Food and Drug Administration (USFDA) for donepezil under the brand "Aricept", which it co-marketed with Pfizer. The team at Eisai was led by Hachiro Sugimoto As of 2011, Aricept was the world's best-selling Alzheimer's disease treatment. The first generic donepezil became available in November 2010 with the USFDA approval of a formulation prepared by Ranbaxy Labs. In April 2011 a second generic formulation, from Wockhardt, received tentative USFDA marketing approval. Donepezil has been tested in other cognitive disorders, including Lewy body dementia, and vascular dementia, but it is not currently approved for these
FDA Panel Backs Novartis Drug For Treating Parkinson’s Dementia [SEP] Nilotinib // 2011 that it was discontinuing a phase III trial of Tasigna (nilotinib) for investigational use in the first-line treatment of gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST) based on the recommendation of an independent data monitoring committee. Interim results showed Tasigna is unlikely to demonstrate superiority compared to Novartis's Gleevec (imatinib)*, the current standard of care in this setting. The use of low doses of nilotinib is being investigated for use for Parkinson's, and Alzheimer's disease, as well as for ALS, dementia and Huntington's disease. Beginning in 2015, nilotinib was being trialed in people with Parkinson's disease as it appeared to be able
FDA Panel Backs Novartis Drug For Treating Parkinson’s Dementia [SEP] Rasagiline // share the costs and obtained the joint right to market the drug in Europe. In 2003 Teva partnered with Eisai, giving Eisai the right to jointly market the drug for Parkinson's in the US, and to co-develop and co-market the drug for Alzheimers and other neurological diseases. It was approved by the European Medicines Agency for Parkinson's in 2005 and in the US in 2006. Rasagiline was tested for efficacy in people with multiple system atrophy in a large randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind disease-modification trial; the drug failed. Teva conducted clinical trials attempting to prove that rasagiline did not just treat
FDA Panel Backs Novartis Drug For Treating Parkinson’s Dementia [SEP] Neurolixis // Parkinson's UK announced that it had awarded Neurolixis a grant to advance development of befiradol up to clinical phase in Parkinson's disease patients. F-15599 (also known as NLX-101) was awarded Orphan Drug Status by the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in October 2013 and Orphan Medicinal Product designation by the European Medicines Agency in March 2014. In collaboration with researchers at the University of Bristol, Neurolixis has been awarded a grant by the International Rett Syndrome Foundation to study F-15599 in animal models of Rett syndrome. In June 2015, Neurolixis was awarded a grant by the Rett Syndrome
FDA Panel Backs Novartis Drug For Treating Parkinson’s Dementia [SEP] Neurocrine Biosciences // the treatment of pediatric patients with Tourette syndrome. In February 2017, Neurocrine announced an exclusive licensing agreement for the development and commercialization of the Parkinson's disease drug, opicapone, in North America with the Portugal-based pharmaceutical company Bial. As part of the agreement, Neurocrine provided an upfront payment of $30 million and agreed to fund development activities for FDA approval in the United States. Bial is eligible to receive additional milestone payments of up to $115 million and a percentage of net sales. In September 2017, AbbVie submitted a NDA to the FDA for elagolix for the management of endometriosis and
FDA Panel Backs Novartis Drug For Treating Parkinson’s Dementia [SEP] Kenneth L. Davis // Mount Sinai Health System. Davis has weighed in on the intersection of health and public policy, arguing that the National Institutes of Health should receive more funds to fight disease and calling drug prices 'outrageous' and a fair trade issue. Davis participated in breakthrough proof-of-concept studies and clinical trials of cholinesterase inhibitors. These trials (the first multicenter ones for cholinesterase inhibitors) established efficacy and ultimately led the first four of the five FDA-approved compounds for treating the symptoms of Alzheimer's: tacrine, rivastigmine, galantamine, donepezil and memantine In 1978, Davis, together with Richard Mohs, conducted the first well-controlled study of a
FDA Panel Backs Novartis Drug For Treating Parkinson’s Dementia [SEP] Memory and aging // years. There are four drugs currently approved by the FDA for the treatment of Alzheimer’s, and they all act on the cholinergic system: Donepezil, Galantamine, Rivastigmine, and Tacrine. Although these medications are not the cure for Alzheimer’s, symptoms may be reduced for up to eighteen months for mild or moderate dementia. These drugs do not forestall the ultimate decline to full Alzheimer's. Also, modality is important in determining the strength of the memory. For instance, auditory creates stronger memory abilities than visual. This is shown by the higher recency and primacy effects of an auditory recall test compared to that
FDA Panel Backs Novartis Drug For Treating Parkinson’s Dementia [SEP] Etanercept // disorders. The company's April 17, 2013 press release claimed that the biosimilar will cost 30% less as compared to the innovator. In January 2015, Samsung and Biogen's joint venture "Samsung Bioepis" successfully submitted Benepali, a biosimilar version of the drug, for review to the European Medicines Agency (EMA), and announced that it will seek regulatory approvals in other territories as well. Later the same year, the European Medicines Agency also accepted Sandoz’s application for review of its etanercept biosimilar Erelzi which will be marketed by Novartis. In the U.S., Sandoz submitted a biologics license application (BLA) for the proposed etanercept
Tumor-free flounder: Study underscores Boston Harbor rebirth. [SEP] Sarah Fraser Robbins // the swim was sponsored by the Massachusetts Audubon Society. In that year its name was changed to “Celebrate the Clean Harbor,” since the conditions had immensely improved. The Weld family sponsored a harbor cleanup research and monitoring program under the auspices of the Massachusetts Society to ensure that the federal funding necessary that the program was spent wisely. Currently, the race is sponsored by the New England Marathon Swimming Association. Robbins swam it for many years, and her daughter Sarah has succeeded her. In 1970, the University of Massachusetts Amherst bought the defunct Consolidated Lobster Company buildings at Hodgkins Cove
Tumor-free flounder: Study underscores Boston Harbor rebirth. [SEP] Menemsha Pond // of Lobsterville and Squibnocket, both of whom would never recover. The new dredging of Menemsha harbor, with its added depth and dock space, made it ideal for the newly innovated motor-powered fishing and leisure boats. The pond is dually administered by the towns of Aquinnah and Chilmark. Each town has their own harbormaster. Menemsha Pond supports commercial oyster farming. The towns also seed bay scallops, quahogs, and oysters in the pond. In addition, the Wampanoag Tribe of Gay Head runs a hatchery on the southwest side of the pond. In the past, the hatchery conducted flounder spawning programs. Currently, there
Tumor-free flounder: Study underscores Boston Harbor rebirth. [SEP] John Todd (Canadian biologist) // first trials, I knew that it was possible to do good things in bad places; in short, to heal the planet." By 1990 a full-scale project was being planned for Harwich's Flax Pond, a 15 acre site. The pond suffered from significant contamination due to leachates from a nearby landfill and septage lagoons. Oxygen levels in the water were low and coliform bacteria counts were high. Sediment deposits included high levels of ammonia, up to 300 times the usual levels of phosphorus, and 80 times the usual concentration of iron. A floating construction called a Pond Restorer was completed in
Tumor-free flounder: Study underscores Boston Harbor rebirth. [SEP] Massachusetts Water Resources Authority // bonds that financed major capital improvement projects. Since its creation in 1985, MWRA has completed $6.8 billion worth of upgrades to its water and sewer systems. These projects have all but reversed the effects of neglect and underfunding of the previous decades. With the sewer treatment facilities on Deer Island complete, the clean-up of Boston Harbor has gained national acclaim as one of the greatest environmental success stories of our time. On the drinking water side, massive upgrades to water infrastructure, including a state-of-the-art ozone disinfection plant and covered storage tanks throughout the district guarantee some of the best drinking
Tumor-free flounder: Study underscores Boston Harbor rebirth. [SEP] Boston Harbor // polluted that The Standells released a song in 1965 called "Dirty Water" which referred to the sorry state of the Charles River. Neal Stephenson, who attended Boston University from 1977 to 1981, based his second novel, "Zodiac", around pollution of the harbor. Since the writing of the song, the water quality in both the Harbor and the Charles River has significantly improved, and the projects have dramatically transformed Boston Harbor from one of the filthiest in the nation to one of the cleanest. Today Boston Harbor is safe for fishing and for swimming nearly every day, though there are still
Tumor-free flounder: Study underscores Boston Harbor rebirth. [SEP] Provincetown Harbor // resulted in the demise of native wildlife populations, occasionally in the form of fish kills. In 2004, tidal flow was successfully restored by the National Park Service, working together with other local, state, and federal agencies. In the following year, for the first time since Abraham Lincoln was president, legal-size clams were found in East Harbor. In 2008, the USGS officially renamed Pilgrim Lake, restoring the original appellation of East Harbor. The Portland gale of 1898 destroyed several wharves and fishing vessels within the harbor. In 2002, Provincetown Harbor Beach was selected by the US Environmental Protection Agency as one
Tumor-free flounder: Study underscores Boston Harbor rebirth. [SEP] Cysview // The results of the trial demonstrate that Hexvix identified lesions, including residual tumours, that were not detected with white light alone in 49% of the patients. It also demonstrated that the improved detection of lesions resulted in a significant reduction in tumour recurrence within 12 months. May 12, 2011 - Results announced from a clinical study which included retrospective follow up from 526 patients in a prospective randomized Phase III trial in 28 centers in EU and North America. After the follow-up period up to 5.5 years, the number of patients who have experienced recurrence of their bladder cancer is
Tumor-free flounder: Study underscores Boston Harbor rebirth. [SEP] William B. Golden // directly into the harbor, greatly improving the beach ecosystem and economy in the area. Accordingly, in January 1985, State Senator Golden went on to form the nonprofit environmental group Save the Harbor/Save the Bay with Judge Paul Garrity and Boston Globe columnist Ian Menzies, to lobby for the restoration and preservation of Boston Harbor and Massachusetts Bay. The Environmental Protection Agency now calls the Boston Harbor a "great American jewel." Golden serves as the Executive Director of the National Institute for Coastal and Harbor Infrastructure (NICHI). The website for the non-profit organization states that "NICHI is committed to building a
Tumor-free flounder: Study underscores Boston Harbor rebirth. [SEP] Brentuximab vedotin // by targeted cells. The vesicle containing the drug is fused with lysosomes and lysosomal cysteine proteases, particularly cathepsin B, start to break down valine-citrulline linker and MMAE is no longer bound to the antibody and is released directly into the tumor environment. In a 2010 clinical trial, 34% of patients with refractory Hodgkin Lymphoma achieved complete remission and another 40% had partial remission. Tumor reductions were achieved in 94% of patients. In ALCL, 87% of patients had tumors shrink at least 50% and 97% of patients had some tumor shrinkage. Reports in 2013 showed interim results from a Phase II,
Tumor-free flounder: Study underscores Boston Harbor rebirth. [SEP] Moon Island (Massachusetts) // Quincy's beaches, the City of Quincy filed a lawsuit in state court against the MDC. As a result, the Massachusetts Water Resources Authority (MWRA) was created to manage the cleanup of Boston Harbor. Judge Troy made a judicial decision that prohibited the attachment of any new buildings or homes to the existing sewer system until a plan was established to solve the sewerage overflow problem in Boston Harbor. In 1985, the MWRA assumed control of all of the MDCs water and sewer systems. Because these systems were below federal standards, a federal court order mandated the construction of a new
Montana joins other states with vaping product bans . [SEP] Cannabis in Montana // as a qualifying condition; Glendive journalist Anthony Varriano's proposal to legalize recreational cannabis for adults 21 and over; and Billings businessman Steve Zabawa's proposal to require Montana's drug policy to follow federal policy, which would put an end to the state's medical marijuana program.. On November 6, 2016, Initiative I-182 passed with 58% approval. Montana’s Department of Public Health and Human Services (DPHHS) oversees the state’s medical marijuana program, and they opted to use the Marijuana Enforcement Tracking Regulation and Compliance system.In May 2017 Governor Steve Bullock signed into law SB333, which further regulates the medical cannabis industry by adding
Montana joins other states with vaping product bans . [SEP] Cannabis in Montana // Cannabis in Montana In the US state of Montana, cannabis is legal for medical uses, but has been illegal for recreational use since 1929. Medical cannabis was legalized by ballot initiative in 2004. The senate and congress passed a repeal to tighten Montana Medical Marijuana (MMJ) laws which failed getting the Governor's signature. However, with the new provisions, providers could not service more than three patients. In November 2016 Bill I-182 was passed, this revised the 2004 law and allowed providers to service more than three patients. Cannabis was banned in Montana in 1929, following a Health Committee meeting which
Montana joins other states with vaping product bans . [SEP] Cannabis in Montana // mandatory testing and seed to sale tracking.. SB 333 also imposes a 4% tax on medical marijuana beginning July 1, 2017 and decreases to 2% beginning on July 1, 2018. Cannabis in Montana In the US state of Montana, cannabis is legal for medical uses, but has been illegal for recreational use since 1929. Medical cannabis was legalized by ballot initiative in 2004. The senate and congress passed a repeal to tighten Montana Medical Marijuana (MMJ) laws which failed getting the Governor's signature. However, with the new provisions, providers could not service more than three patients. In November 2016 Bill
Montana joins other states with vaping product bans . [SEP] Electronic cigarette // some states tax e-cigarettes as tobacco products, and some state and regional governments have broadened their indoor smoking bans to include e-cigarettes. As of 9 October 2015, at least 48 states and 2 territories banned e-cigarette sales to minors. In November 2018 the FDA announced new steps to curb youth vaping while still ensuring the adults who would benefit from electronic cigarettes still had access to a healthier nicotine delivery system. Sales of flavored tobacco products will be limited to adult only stores and online vendors with the exception of tobacco, mint or menthol electronic cigarettes that will remain for
Montana joins other states with vaping product bans . [SEP] Tobacco-Free Pharmacies // force in 1996 when the Quebec Order of Pharmacists ("Ordre des pharmaciens du Québec") directed its members to stop selling cigarettes, declaring the practice to be inconsistent with the professional mandate of pharmacists. The National Assembly of Quebec followed up with a statutory ban in 1998, making it the third province in Canada to do so through legislation. Similar bans were enacted in Nova Scotia (2000), Nunavut (2004), Newfoundland and Labrador (2005), Prince Edward Island (2006), Northwest Territories (2007), Alberta (2009), Yukon (2011), Saskatchewan (2011) and Manitoba (2013). British Columbia is the only remaining jurisdiction in Canada to permit the
Montana joins other states with vaping product bans . [SEP] Vape shop // business. In late November 2015, Bill 44 was passed by the National Assembly, which regulates e-cigarettes as tobacco products. It bans using e-cigarettes in vape shops, bans indoor displays and advertising, and bans sales on their websites. Vape trade shows have an array of product vendors, seminars, social interactions with other vapers, parties, gifts, vaping contests, and other activities. By 2015, the number of vaping trade show organizations arranging vape trade shows had grown to 41. This includes 90 trade shows, with 6 set for 2016 in 8 countries. Vape shows were organized in 26 US states. They ranged from
Montana joins other states with vaping product bans . [SEP] Regulation of electronic cigarettes // branding that resembles food, candy, or beverage items as being misbranded and using false advertising, which is illegal under the Tobacco Control Act of 2009 (specifically sections 903(a)(1) and 903(a)(7)(A) of the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, ). Effective 8 August 2016, all US states will follow the same, uniform federal guidelines. With an absence of federal regulations, many states and cities had adopted their own e-cigarette regulations, most commonly to prohibit sales to minors, including Maryland, Kentucky, Minnesota, New Jersey, New Hampshire, Tennessee, Utah, Wisconsin, and Colorado. Other states are considering similar legislation. Several US cities and states have
Montana joins other states with vaping product bans . [SEP] Frank Artiles // session, Artiles sponsored legislation that made electronic cigarettes illegal for minors to use. Though the bill initially contained a provision that Artiles hoped would result in a statewide ban on e-cigarettes, an amendment sponsored by fellow Republican State Representative Bill Hager stripped the provision from the bill that "would have prevented local governments from creating their own rules on e-cigarettes and tobacco products." Following a unanimous vote in support of the bill, Artiles remarked, "At the end of the day, the state of Florida has acted before the federal government in protecting our children from contaminating their lungs with vaporizing
Montana joins other states with vaping product bans . [SEP] Tobacco-Free Pharmacies // Star Market, Stop & Shop, Target, Walgreens, Walmart and various independent pharmacies. A number of the Massachusetts municipalities listed extend the tobacco sales ban in pharmacies to include the sale of "nicotine delivery products", including electronic cigarettes. "Nicotine delivery products" are defined as manufactured products that contain nicotine, but not tobacco, and are not FDA approved. On February 5, 2014, CVS Pharmacy, (7600 locations) announced that by October 2014 its stores will stop selling all tobacco products including cigarettes and cigars. In a statement explaining the change, CVS President & CEO Larry J. Merlo said, "We came to the decision
Montana joins other states with vaping product bans . [SEP] National Firearms Act // since they cannot be regulated as interstate commerce. However, this law does not apply to a firearm that cannot be carried and used by one person, a firearm that has a bore diameter greater than 1 ½ inches and uses smokeless powder, ammunition that uses exploding projectiles or fully automatic firearms. While it is likely to face a court challenge (and specifically intended to provoke one), this Montana law would put firearms accessories such as silencers actually made in Montana, marked "Made in Montana", and sold only to Montana citizens outside federal jurisdiction and not subject to the $200 federal
Missouri student on Columbia campus has active tuberculosis. [SEP] University of Missouri Hospital // University of Missouri Hospital University Hospital is located in Columbia, Missouri. It has the only Level I trauma center and helicopter service in Mid-Missouri, and the only burn intensive care unit in the region. It also has an accredited chest pain center cardiology program and a multidisciplinary digestive disease program. Physicians throughout the state refer many of their cases to this hospital of the University of Missouri Health Care. The hospital is affiliated with the University of Missouri and the University of Missouri School of Medicine. University Hospital is the 3rd hospital owned and operated by the University of Missouri.
Missouri student on Columbia campus has active tuberculosis. [SEP] University of Missouri School of Medicine // with University of Wisconsin–Madison) and 23rd among schools emphasizing primary care. In 2016, it was reported in "The Columbia Missourian" that "the number of MU School of Medicine students who have reported experiencing gender discrimination is twice as high as the national average." University of Missouri School of Medicine The University of Missouri School of Medicine (also called University of Missouri-Columbia School of Medicine or MU School of Medicine) is located in the southern part of the University of Missouri campus in Columbia, Missouri. It was the first publicly supported medical school west of the Mississippi River. The University of
Missouri student on Columbia campus has active tuberculosis. [SEP] University of Missouri School of Medicine // University of Missouri School of Medicine The University of Missouri School of Medicine (also called University of Missouri-Columbia School of Medicine or MU School of Medicine) is located in the southern part of the University of Missouri campus in Columbia, Missouri. It was the first publicly supported medical school west of the Mississippi River. The University of Missouri School of Medicine is medical school of the University of Missouri. Established in 1872, it was the first publicly supported medical school west of the Mississippi River. The school was organized as a two-year school in 1872. Joseph Norwood, M.D., professor of
Missouri student on Columbia campus has active tuberculosis. [SEP] University of Missouri Health Care // flagship hospital of MU Health Care, University Hospital is a 307-bed facility located in Columbia, Missouri. The hospital's physicians and staff cared for 19,096 hospital patients Fiscal Year 2009. The Frank L. Mitchell Jr., MD Trauma Center located within the hospital is the only American College of Surgeons (ACS) certified Level I trauma center in Mid-Missouri and one of three in the state. University Hospital is a nationally accredited Cycle II Chest Pain Center and a nationally accredited Primary Stroke Center. It has a seven story ICU tower comprising surgical, medical-neurological and cardiac intensive care units, as well as the
Missouri student on Columbia campus has active tuberculosis. [SEP] Columbia, Missouri // referral center for the state, and medical related trips to the city are common. There are three hospital systems within the city and five hospitals with a total of 1,105 beds. The University of Missouri Health Care operates three hospitals in Columbia: the University of Missouri Hospital, the University of Missouri Women's and Children's Hospital (formerly Columbia Regional Hospital), and the Ellis Fischel Cancer Center. Boone Hospital Center is administered by BJC Healthcare and operates several clinics as well as outpatient locations. The Harry S. Truman Memorial Veterans' Hospital, next to University Hospital, is administered by the United States Department
Missouri student on Columbia campus has active tuberculosis. [SEP] Columbia, Missouri // of Veterans Affairs. There are also a large number of medical-related industries in Columbia. The University of Missouri School of Medicine uses university-owned facilities as teaching hospitals. The University of Missouri Research Reactor Center is the largest research reactor in the United States and produces radioisotopes used in nuclear medicine. The center serves as the sole supplier of the active ingredients in two U.S. Food and Drug Administration-approved radiopharmaceuticals and produces Fluorine-18 used in PET imaging with its cyclotron. In accordance with the Columbia Sister Cities Program, which operates in conjunction with Sister Cities International, Columbia has been paired with
Missouri student on Columbia campus has active tuberculosis. [SEP] University of Missouri School of Medicine // Ellis Fischel Cancer Center, among other members of the MU Health System. A new $42.5 million Patient-Centered Care Learning Center opened in Columbia in 2017. A second campus, known as the Springfield Clinical Campus, was opened June 13th, 2016, in partnership with CoxHealth and Mercy Health systems. Eight to twelve MU medical students complete their last two years of training at the Springfield campus. For the entering class in 2016, MU School of Medicine received 2,167 applications for 104 spots. 370 applicants were interviewed, and 164 were accepted. The average accepted applicant's GPA and MCAT percentile were 3.79 and 77.8,
Missouri student on Columbia campus has active tuberculosis. [SEP] Saint Louis University School of Medicine // cancer and molecular biology; liver disease; cardiovascular disease; neurosciences and aging; and vaccine development". Effective April 1, 2008, Philip O. Alderson, former chairman of the radiology department at Columbia University, became the 12th dean of the Medical School. The medical school continues to be a leader in research in many fields, especially in emerging diseases, neuroscience, organ transplantation, vaccine development, cardiac health, and afflictions of the liver. Currently, numerous cutting edge research projects are underway including those examining aging and brain disorders, Alzheimer's disease, multiple sclerosis, biodefense, influenza, respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) and tuberculosis vaccines. Actually, the Saint Louis School
Missouri student on Columbia campus has active tuberculosis. [SEP] Ellis Fischel Cancer Center // erect the hospital in 1937. Columbia was chosen as the site of the hospital because of the central location and the presence of the University of Missouri, a major cancer research center. The seven-story, 104-bed hospital was built on U.S. Route 40 (now Interstate 70) in 1938. Ellis Fischel was expanded in 1975 to increase laboratory space, clinic capability and operating room suites. Ellis Fischel Cancer Center joined University of Missouri Health Care in 1990. All inpatient services were moved to University Hospital; outpatient services, such as radiation clinics and screening services, were still located at the facility off of
Missouri student on Columbia campus has active tuberculosis. [SEP] New Westminster Secondary School // diagnosed with infectious tuberculosis (TB). While the identity of the 9th grade student could not be released, over 200 peers and teachers who came into contact with the individual were notified, and voluntary testing was carried out in room 149 starting on December 11. Responding to the incident, superintendent John Woudzia stated: "It's a significant issue, (but) I'm convinced we have a good plan in place." Most forms of TB are currently treatable with antibiotics, but drug-resistant strains are becoming more common. As a follow-up procedure, the school tested these students and teachers once again on February 13, 2008. New
The proportion of Rhode Islanders entering substance abuse treatment primarily due to marijuana use has reached its highest point in 20 years. [SEP] Cannabis in Rhode Island // "Approved Qualifying Debilitating Medical Conditions" for medical marijuana are: cancer, glacoma, HIV/AIDS, hepatitis C, or a "chronic or debilitating disease or medical condition or its treatment that produces one or more of the following": cachexia (wasting syndrome); "severe, debilitating, chronic pain"; "severe nausea"; epilepsy or other seizures; "severe and persistent muscle spasms, including but not limited to those characteristic of multiple sclerosis or Crohn's disease"; and Alzheimer's disease-related agitation. In June 2009, Rhode Island introduced a cannabis dispensary system, making them the second state nationwide (after California) to do so. In October 2016, there were 15,470 patients in Rhode Island,
The proportion of Rhode Islanders entering substance abuse treatment primarily due to marijuana use has reached its highest point in 20 years. [SEP] Cannabis in Rhode Island // Cannabis in Rhode Island In the U.S. state of Rhode Island, marijuana has been legal statewide for medical use, within state regulations, since 2006. However, the possession of marijuana for recreational use remains illegal. Several proposals to legalize the drug have been advanced in the Rhode Island General Assembly, but none have succeeded. Rhode Island first banned the sale of cannabis without a prescription in 1918. As of 2012, Rhode Island had some of the strictest mandatory minimums for large-scale cannabis possession in the United States. Possession of more than 5 kg results in a sentence of 20 years' imprisonment
The proportion of Rhode Islanders entering substance abuse treatment primarily due to marijuana use has reached its highest point in 20 years. [SEP] Cannabis in Rhode Island // a recent Brown University poll showing 55% of state residents support legalization. A February 2017 poll showed 59% of Rhode Islanders in favor of full legalization. In 2006 Rhode Island legalized medical marijuana, becoming the eleventh state to do so. The legislation was passed the year in 2005, winning approval in the state House by a vote of 52-10 and the state Senate by a vote of 33-1. Republican Governor Don Carcieri vetoed the legislation, but the Legislature overrode the veto, by a vote of 59–13 in the state House and 28-6 in the state Senate. Under Rhode Island law,
The proportion of Rhode Islanders entering substance abuse treatment primarily due to marijuana use has reached its highest point in 20 years. [SEP] Cannabis in Rhode Island // along with three dispensaries (which are permitted to grow marijuana for their patients' use). The Healing Church in Rhode Island is a Rhode Island-based religious sect whose adherents believe that marijuana is a "holy herb" and use it in religious rituals. Cannabis in Rhode Island In the U.S. state of Rhode Island, marijuana has been legal statewide for medical use, within state regulations, since 2006. However, the possession of marijuana for recreational use remains illegal. Several proposals to legalize the drug have been advanced in the Rhode Island General Assembly, but none have succeeded. Rhode Island first banned the sale
The proportion of Rhode Islanders entering substance abuse treatment primarily due to marijuana use has reached its highest point in 20 years. [SEP] Cannabis in Rhode Island // and fines of between $25,000 and $100,000. Bills to legalize marijuana have been introduced in the Rhode Island General Assembly every year since 2011, but have to date been "held for further study" with no action. The group Regulate Rhode Island (the state affiliate of the Marijuana Policy Project) advocates for legalization. Following the success of recreational cannabis ballot initiatives in four states and the District of Columbia in 2012 and 2014, advocates in Rhode Island, where there is no public ballot initiative process, pressed their legislature to allow a public vote on legalizing recreational cannabis. In 2016 advocates cited
The proportion of Rhode Islanders entering substance abuse treatment primarily due to marijuana use has reached its highest point in 20 years. [SEP] Rhode Island Patient Advocacy Coalition // medical reasons. In 2006, the General Assembly overwhelmingly approved the "Medical Marijuana Act" and established the "Rhode Island Medical Marijuana Program." The Edward O. Hawkins and Thomas C. Slater Medical Marijuana Act allows licensed patients to legally possess up to 2.5 ounces of marijuana and 12 plants and 12 seedlings. The Act also allows licensed patients to appoint up to two caregivers to assist them in obtaining and cultivating medical cannabis within the limits set forth in law. In 2009, the law was amended to include the licensing of compassion centers to provide patients with increased access to medical marijuana.
The proportion of Rhode Islanders entering substance abuse treatment primarily due to marijuana use has reached its highest point in 20 years. [SEP] Cannabis use disorder // treatment, lack of motivation and knowledge of treatment facilities, an overall lack of facilities, costs associated with treatment, difficulty meeting program eligibility criteria and transport difficulties. In the US, , cannabis is the most commonly identified illicit substance used by people admitted to treatment facilities. Demand for treatment for cannabis use disorder increased internationally between 1995 and 2002. In the United States, the average adult who seeks treatment has consumed cannabis for over 10 years almost daily and has attempted to quit six or more times. No medications have been found effective for cannabis dependence as of 2014, but psychotherapeutic
The proportion of Rhode Islanders entering substance abuse treatment primarily due to marijuana use has reached its highest point in 20 years. [SEP] Marijuana Policy Project // 2006, the Rhode Island Legislature overwhelmingly overrode Gov. Donald Carcieri’s veto of MPP’s bill to protect medical marijuana patients from arrest, making Rhode Island the 11th medical marijuana state. This was the first state medical marijuana law to be enacted over the veto of a governor. In June 2009, the Rhode Island Legislature again overwhelmingly overrode Gov. Carcieri’s veto of MPP’s bill to create "compassion centers" to provide medical marijuana to qualified patients, making Rhode Island the second state (after New Mexico) to license and regulate medical marijuana dispensing. In June 2012, the Rhode Island Legislature passed and Gov. Lincoln
The proportion of Rhode Islanders entering substance abuse treatment primarily due to marijuana use has reached its highest point in 20 years. [SEP] War on drugs // percent for prevention. The state of New York, in particular, designated 17 percent of its budget towards substance-abuse-related spending. Of that, a mere one percent was put towards prevention, treatment, and research. In a survey taken by Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA), it was found that substance abusers that remain in treatment longer are less likely to resume their former drug habits. Of the people that were studied, 66 percent were cocaine users. After experiencing long-term in-patient treatment, only 22 percent returned to the use of cocaine. Treatment had reduced the number of cocaine abusers by two-thirds.
The proportion of Rhode Islanders entering substance abuse treatment primarily due to marijuana use has reached its highest point in 20 years. [SEP] Healing Church in Rhode Island // Healing Church in Rhode Island The Healing Church in Rhode Island is a Rhode Island-based religious sect whose adherents believe that cannabis (or marijuana) is a "holy herb" and use it in religious rituals. Leaders of the group attracted attention in 2015 for attempting to smoke marijuana in front of the Roger Williams National Memorial (a memorial to Roger Williams, a pioneer of religious freedom and one of the smallest National Parks) as part of a religious service. One of the church members said that bhang was consumed during the service on federal property, to avoid a no-smoking rule. The
A Harvard study proved that “unvaccinated children pose no risk” to other kids. [SEP] Vaccine controversies // where not required by law. Refusal of doctors to treat unvaccinated children may cause harm to both the child and public health, and may be considered unethical, if the parents are unable to find another healthcare provider for the child. Opinion on this is divided, with the largest professional association, the American Academy of Pediatrics, saying that exclusion may be an option under narrowly defined circumstances. Others have questioned whether it is right to punish a child for parents' bad choices. Vaccination has been opposed on religious grounds ever since it was introduced. Some Christian opponents argued, when vaccination was
A Harvard study proved that “unvaccinated children pose no risk” to other kids. [SEP] Letchworth Village // Hilary Koprowski, after he tried it on himself. After the patient suffered no side effects, the vaccine was administered to 19 more of the institution's children. Out of a total of 20 children, 17 developed antibodies to the virus, and none developed any complications. Reports of inadequate funding and improper care of the residents, including children, were present dating back to the 1920s. Accounts surfaced of residents being found unclothed, unbathed, and neglected. In addition to rampant abuse among the institution's residents, staff also suffered abuse at the hands of co-workers, which included incidents of rape. In 1996 the institution
A Harvard study proved that “unvaccinated children pose no risk” to other kids. [SEP] Vaccination // fraud. This Lancet article has sparked a much greater anti-vaccination movement, primarily in the United States. Even though the article was fraudulent and was retracted, 1 in 4 parents still believe vaccines can cause autism. Many parents do not vaccinate their children because they feel that diseases are no longer present due to vaccination. This is a false assumption, since diseases held in check by immunization programs can and do still return if immunization is dropped. These pathogens could possibly infect vaccinated people, due to the pathogen's ability to mutate when it is able to live in unvaccinated hosts. In
A Harvard study proved that “unvaccinated children pose no risk” to other kids. [SEP] Vaccine controversies // to the best available medical care, including vaccines, regardless of parental feelings toward vaccines, saying "Arguments about medical freedom and choice are at odds with the human and constitutional rights of children. When parents won’t protect them, governments must." A review of court cases from 1905 to 2016 found that, of the 9 courts that have heard cases regarding whether not vaccinating a child constitutes neglect, 7 have held vaccine refusal to be a form of child neglect. To prevent the spread of disease by unvaccinated individuals, some schools and doctors' surgeries have prohibited unvaccinated children from being enrolled, even
A Harvard study proved that “unvaccinated children pose no risk” to other kids. [SEP] Willowbrook State School // the children hepatitis, Krugman increased that chance to 100 percent. According to the celebrated vaccinologist Maurice Hilleman, "They [the Willowbrook studies] were the most unethical medical experiments ever performed on children in the United States." Historian David Rothman notes that, "The research was even included in Henry Beecher's 1966 "New England Journal of Medicine" listing of "ethically dubious" experiments." Bioethicist Art Caplan has stated that, "The Willowbrook studies were a turning point in how we thought about medical experiments on retarded children... Children inoculated with hepatitis virus had no chance to benefit from the procedure — only the chance to
A Harvard study proved that “unvaccinated children pose no risk” to other kids. [SEP] Non-specific effect of vaccines // and thus they will tend to be allocated as deaths in unvaccinated children – thus incorrectly inflating the mortality rate among unvaccinated children. This bias has been described before, but in different contexts, as the distinction between 'landmark' and 'retrospective updating' analysis of cohort data. The retrospective updating method can lead to a considerable bias in vaccine studies, biasing observed mortality rate ratios towards zero (a large effect), whereas the landmark method leads to a non-specific misclassification and biases the mortality rate ratio towards unity(no effect). An additional problem with the literature on the nonspecific effects of vaccines has been
A Harvard study proved that “unvaccinated children pose no risk” to other kids. [SEP] Non-specific effect of vaccines // vaccinations were typically collected in periodic surveys, and the information on vaccinations, which occurred between successive home visits, was updated at the time of the second visit. The person-time at risk in unvaccinated and vaccinated states was then divided up according to the date of vaccination during the time interval between visits. This method opens up a potential bias, insofar as the updating of person time at risk from unvaccinated to vaccinated is only possible for children who survive to the second follow-up. Those who die between visits typically do not have vaccinations between the first visit and death recorded,
A Harvard study proved that “unvaccinated children pose no risk” to other kids. [SEP] Robert Sears (physician) // in the 1990s, the party line within the medical community was that vaccines do not cause severe reactions...So the party line has changed to the opinion that such severe reactions are so rare that the general population doesn't (and shouldn't) need to worry about them." In 2014, Sears said that he thinks "the disease danger is low enough where I think you can safely raise an unvaccinated child in today's society." Although he is characterized as an anti-vaccine doctor and a vaccine delayer, he does admit that vaccines work: "Chicken pox, measles, whooping cough, polio, diphtheria, all these diseases that
A Harvard study proved that “unvaccinated children pose no risk” to other kids. [SEP] Risk aversion // a road traffic accident on the way to it), and—some argue—children may attempt more dangerous acts, with confidence in the artificial surface. Shiela Sage, an early years school advisor, observes "Children who are only ever kept in very safe places, are not the ones who are able to solve problems for themselves. Children need to have a certain amount of risk taking ... so they'll know how to get out of situations." A vaccine to protect children against the three common diseases measles, mumps and rubella was developed and recommended for all children in several countries including the UK. However,
A Harvard study proved that “unvaccinated children pose no risk” to other kids. [SEP] Vaccine: The Controversial Story of Medicine's Greatest Lifesaver // results by Thomas Verstraeten which showed that thimerosal might increase children's risk of neurodevelopmental delays were flawed, and how these results were discussed at the 2000 Simpsonwood CDC conference. (p. 404) It received a positive review from David Oshinsky in the "New York Times". It also received a positive review in the "Journal of the Royal Society of Medicine", where Michael Fitzpatrick wrote that Allen "does not ignore the history of vaccine disasters. He includes the fiasco in the US military in 1942, when yellow fever vaccine contaminated with hepatitis B caused 100 deaths, and the mass vaccination against smallpox
Jason Brian Dalton, who as accused of killing six people during a shooting spree in February 2016, is suing Uber for $10 million in damages. [SEP] Electronic harassment // he was being "controlled or influenced by extremely low frequency electromagnetic waves". On November 20, 2014, Myron May shot and injured three people on the campus of Florida State University and was killed by responding police officers. Before the event, he had become increasingly anxious that he was under government surveillance and heard voices. On February 20, 2016, Jason Brian Dalton, an Uber driver, was accused in a deadly shooting spree in which six people were killed and two others were injured in Kalamazoo County, Michigan. He blamed his actions on his Uber mobile app, which uses a symbol that
Jason Brian Dalton, who as accused of killing six people during a shooting spree in February 2016, is suing Uber for $10 million in damages. [SEP] 2016 Kalamazoo shootings // 2016 Kalamazoo shootings On the night of February 20, 2016, a series of apparently random shootings took place at an apartment complex, a car dealership, and outside a restaurant in Kalamazoo County, Michigan. Six people were killed and two others were injured. Police detained a 45-year-old Uber driver, Jason Brian Dalton, as a "strong suspect" in the shootings. He was subsequently charged with murder, assault, and criminal firearm use two days after the shootings. After he was found competent to stand trial, Dalton's lawyers planned a legal insanity defense for their client. Hours before the shootings, Jason Brian Dalton (see
Jason Brian Dalton, who as accused of killing six people during a shooting spree in February 2016, is suing Uber for $10 million in damages. [SEP] Uber // cabs, as major cities don't have much data on taxi-related incidents. Concerns regarding Uber's background checks were raised after reports of sexual abuse of passengers by Uber drivers. In February 2016, Uber was criticized following the 2016 Kalamazoo shootings, purportedly committed by Jason Dalton, an Uber driver in Kalamazoo, Michigan. Dalton is believed to have been driving for Uber while allegedly conducting a shooting spree that left 6 people dead and 2 others wounded. This led to a 7-hour manhunt for the suspect, during which it is believed that Dalton continued to drive and accept fares. Uber was aware of
Jason Brian Dalton, who as accused of killing six people during a shooting spree in February 2016, is suing Uber for $10 million in damages. [SEP] 2016 Kalamazoo shootings // the legislation on June 24. 2016 Kalamazoo shootings On the night of February 20, 2016, a series of apparently random shootings took place at an apartment complex, a car dealership, and outside a restaurant in Kalamazoo County, Michigan. Six people were killed and two others were injured. Police detained a 45-year-old Uber driver, Jason Brian Dalton, as a "strong suspect" in the shootings. He was subsequently charged with murder, assault, and criminal firearm use two days after the shootings. After he was found competent to stand trial, Dalton's lawyers planned a legal insanity defense for their client. Hours before the
Jason Brian Dalton, who as accused of killing six people during a shooting spree in February 2016, is suing Uber for $10 million in damages. [SEP] 2016 Kalamazoo shootings // a BMW office in New Jersey at one point. This allowed him to get jobs as a mechanic and then an insurance adjuster. Dalton worked as a driver for Uber during the two weeks preceding the killing spree and purportedly took fares between shooting incidents. An Uber representative stated that Dalton had passed company background checks. A former coworker of Dalton's at the insurance company recalled seeing Dalton yell at a customer over the phone, slam the phone down, and pace around the desk angrily afterwards. Dalton had previously been counseled about his professionalism towards customers. In an interview, another
Jason Brian Dalton, who as accused of killing six people during a shooting spree in February 2016, is suing Uber for $10 million in damages. [SEP] 2016 Kalamazoo shootings // but ultimately determined to be false. As the police continued the manhunt, Dalton reportedly continued to accept Uber fares. At 12:04 a.m. on February 21, he picked up three people and dropped them off at a dormitory on the WMU campus. The passengers later recalled that their driver wasn't too friendly, but did nothing to alarm them. Later, at 12:12, Dalton picked up four people and drove them to their hotel. During the ride, one passenger, who had been hearing reports of the shooting spree, jokingly asked Dalton, "Are you the shooter?" Dalton simply replied, "No." A few minutes later,
Jason Brian Dalton, who as accused of killing six people during a shooting spree in February 2016, is suing Uber for $10 million in damages. [SEP] 2016 Kalamazoo shootings // would not start, so he took the black Chevrolet HHR that his wife had been driving. As he left, he allegedly told his wife that he could not tell her what was going on, but that it would be on the news. After leaving, Dalton withdrew money from an automated teller machine at 6:44. Then, after driving around for 35 minutes, he allegedly returned to his house and switched handguns. He then left at 7:37 and continued accepting Uber requests, which he carried out without incident. None of the passengers he took noticed anything unusual or alarming about him. Later
Jason Brian Dalton, who as accused of killing six people during a shooting spree in February 2016, is suing Uber for $10 million in damages. [SEP] 2016 Kalamazoo shootings // of the getaway vehicle in the shootings. After his arrest, Dalton confessed to committing the shootings. However, he blamed his actions on his Uber mobile app, claiming that its symbol resembled that of the Order of the Eastern Star, and that it took over his body during the events after he pressed the button of a new app resembling the Devil when it abruptly popped up. He later said that he was no longer experiencing these problems. Police indicated that he had no known criminal history or mental health record. Dalton was raised in Greenfield, Indiana, and went to middle
Jason Brian Dalton, who as accused of killing six people during a shooting spree in February 2016, is suing Uber for $10 million in damages. [SEP] Uber // the issues with Dalton's driving skills, having received multiple complaints, though critics agree that Dalton would not have raised any red flags since he did not have a criminal record. In November 2017, The Colorado Public Utilities Commission fined Uber $8.9 million after discovering that 57 drivers in the state had violations in their background checks. The fine amount equaled $2,500 per day that an unqualified driver worked. When a customer makes a pick-up request, a driver is notified on the Uber driver mobile app and is provided the customer's location. The driver has approximately 15 seconds to tap the
Jason Brian Dalton, who as accused of killing six people during a shooting spree in February 2016, is suing Uber for $10 million in damages. [SEP] 2016 Kalamazoo shootings // wife that the Equinox had been sideswiped by a disgruntled taxi driver in a Chevrolet Impala, who fired a gunshot at him due to rage at having his business taken away by Uber. He then assured her that he called Uber and they were handling the incident. He also provided his wife with a 9 mm Taurus handgun, telling her it was not safe to be at the house without it. In addition, he instructed her not to go to work and not to take their children to school. Dalton then attempted to leave in the Hummer H3, but it
Measles is one of the most common causes of child blindness worldwide. [SEP] Childhood blindness // specifically vitamin A deficiency is a top causes of preventable childhood blindness. Though in measles cases, the administration of the vitamin to offset visual impairment has not been proven effective, as yet. Whether blindness is treatable depends upon the cause. Surgical intervention can be performed in PCG which is childhood glaucoma, usually starting early in childhood. Primary congenital glaucoma is caused by an abnormal drainage of the eye. However, surgical intervention is yet to prove effective. Braille is a universal way to learn how to read and write, for the blind. A refreshable braille display is an assistive learning device
Measles is one of the most common causes of child blindness worldwide. [SEP] Childhood immunizations in the United States // Measles is a respiratory disease caused by the virus of the same name, it normally grows in the cells that line the back of the throat and lungs. In pregnant women in can cause miscarriages or pre-mature births. While measles is almost gone from the United States, it still kills about 164,000 people each year around the world. In developing countries that suffer from malnutrition and vitamin A deficiency, measles has been known to kill as many as 1 out of 4 people and it is the leading cause of blindness among African children. Measles spreads from person to person
Measles is one of the most common causes of child blindness worldwide. [SEP] Melanie's Marvelous Measles // a kid with measles with the rash they were carried into the surgery and the child looked like a rag doll. The mother was terrified. It's still fatal. About one in 10,000 children will die because of encephalitis". "Even in 'industrialized countries', measles can cause encephalitis, seizures, blindness, heart and nervous system disorders, and (rarely) death". Dr. David Gorski, a renowned doctor, writes: "I'm sure children with whooping cough who are coughing so hard that they can't catch their breath for hours on end, with haemophilus influenzae type B who develop pneumonia or meningitis, with polio who develop paralysis, or
Measles is one of the most common causes of child blindness worldwide. [SEP] Vitamin A deficiency // Organization (WHO), VAD is under control in the United States, but in developing countries, VAD is a significant concern. Globally, 65% of all children aged 6 to 59 months received two doses of vitamin A in 2013, fully protecting them against VAD (80% in the least developed countries). The common cause of blindness in developing countries is Vitamin A deficiency (VAD). The WHO estimated in 1995 that 13.8 million children to have some degree of visual loss related to VAD. Night blindness and its worsened condition, xerophthalmia, are markers of Vitamin A deficiency (VAD) and collections of keratin in the
Measles is one of the most common causes of child blindness worldwide. [SEP] Vitamin A deficiency // 500,000 malnourished children in the developing world go blind each year from a deficiency of vitamin A, around half of whom die within a year of becoming blind. The United Nations Special Session on Children in 2002 set a goal of the elimination of VAD by 2010. The prevalence of night blindness due to VAD is also high among pregnant women in many developing countries. VAD also contributes to maternal mortality and other poor outcomes in pregnancy and lactation. VAD also diminishes the ability to fight infections. In countries where children are not immunized, infectious diseases such as measles have
Measles is one of the most common causes of child blindness worldwide. [SEP] Refugee children // and other temporary settlements. Governments and organizations are working to address a number of them, such as measles, rubella, diarrhea, and cholera. Refugee children often arrive in the United States from countries with a high prevalence of infectious disease. Measles has been a major cause of child deaths in refugee camps and among internally displaced people; measles also exacerbates malnutrition and vitamin A deficiency. Some countries, such as Kenya, have developed preventative, detective, and curative programs to specifically target measles within the refugee children population. Kenya has reached over 20 million children with a measles and rubella immunization campaign carried
Measles is one of the most common causes of child blindness worldwide. [SEP] Center for World Health and Medicine // people in developing countries. In African a child dies from Malaria every 45 seconds. Sickle-Cell Disease- is a genetic disorder that causes hemoglobin to mis-fold and distortion of red blood cells. This results in a number of acute and chronic complications, including severe pain to shortened lifespan. Retinitis pigmentosa (RP) –is a group of inherited diseases characterized by progressive loss of photoreceptor cells in the eye leading to blindness. New therapies may be useful not only for RP, but also other ophthalmic disorders such as glaucoma, age-related macular degeneration, and diabetic retinopathy, which are leading causes of blindness worldwide. CWHM
Measles is one of the most common causes of child blindness worldwide. [SEP] Childhood blindness // Childhood blindness Childhood blindness is an important cause contributing to the burden of blindness. Blindness in children can be defined as a visual acuity of <3/60 in the eye with better vision of a child under 16 years of age. This generally means that the child cannot see something three feet (about one meter) away, that another child could see if it was 60 feet (about 20 meters) away. There are many causes of blindness in children. Blindness may be due to genetic mutations, birth defects, premature birth, nutritional deficiencies, infections, injuries, and other causes. Severe retinopathy of prematurity (ROP),
Measles is one of the most common causes of child blindness worldwide. [SEP] Measles // of blindness. A systematic review of trials into its use found no reduction in overall mortality, but it did reduce mortality in children aged under two years. It is unclear if zinc supplementation in children with measles affects outcomes. Complications may include pneumonia, ear infections, bronchitis (either viral bronchitis or secondary bacterial bronchitis), and brain inflammation. Brain inflammation from measles has a mortality rate of 15%. While there is no specific treatment for brain inflammation from measles, antibiotics are required for bacterial pneumonia, sinusitis, and bronchitis that can follow measles. The majority of people survive measles, though in some cases,
Measles is one of the most common causes of child blindness worldwide. [SEP] Childhood blindness // blindness worldwide is approximately 1.4 million. 75% of the world’s blind children live in Africa and Asia. A 2014 review indicated that an estimated of 238,500 children with bilateral blindness (rate 1.2/1,000) in the Eastern Mediterranean region. VISION 2020 is a program launched by the International Agency for the Prevention of Blindness (IAPB) and is supported by the WHO in 1999 that has made controlling blindness in children a high priority. Childhood blindness Childhood blindness is an important cause contributing to the burden of blindness. Blindness in children can be defined as a visual acuity of <3/60 in the eye
Nobel Prize for seeing how life works at molecular level. [SEP] Asian Americans in science and technology // "for groundbreaking achievements concerning the transmission of light in fibres for optical communication." Shuji Nakamura won the 2014 Nobel Prize in Physics for the invention of efficient blue light-emitting diodes. Charles J. Pedersen shared the 1987 Nobel Prize in chemistry for his methods of synthesizing crown ethers. In 2008, biochemist Roger Tsien won the Nobel in Chemistry for his work on engineering and improving the green fluorescent protein (GFP) that has become a standard tool of modern molecular biology and biochemistry. Venkatraman Ramakrishnan won the prize in Chemistry "for studies of the structure and function of the ribosome". Ching W.
Nobel Prize for seeing how life works at molecular level. [SEP] History of science and technology in Japan // hydrocarbons." He later received the 1981 Nobel Prize in Chemistry for his investigations into the mechanisms of chemical reactions, with his prize-winning work focused on the role of frontier orbitals in chemical reactions, specifically that molecules share loosely bonded electrons which occupy the frontier orbitals, that is the Highest Occupied Molecular Orbital (HOMO) and the Lowest Unoccupied Molecular Orbital (LUMO). Ryōji Noyori was awarded the 2001 Nobel Prize in Chemistry for his "work on chirally catalyzed hydrogenation reactions" in 1968. In the 1960s and 1970s, green fluorescent proteins (GFP), along with the separate luminescent protein aequorin (an enzyme that catalyzes
Nobel Prize for seeing how life works at molecular level. [SEP] Kurt Wüthrich // on the USA Science and Engineering Festival's Advisory Board., and a supporter of the Campaign for the Establishment of a United Nations Parliamentary Assembly, an organisation which campaigns for democratic reform in the United Nations. He was awarded the Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize from Columbia University in 1991, the Louis-Jeantet Prize for Medicine in 1993, the Otto Warburg Medal in 1999 and half of the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 2002 for "his development of nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy for determining the three-dimensional structure of biological macromolecules in solution". He received the Bijvoet Medal of the Bijvoet Center for Biomolecular
Nobel Prize for seeing how life works at molecular level. [SEP] John Polanyi // and molecules. Polanyi's work still focuses on the basic workings of chemical reactions, but since his Nobel Prize win in 1986, his methods have changed. While in Sweden for the award ceremony, he encountered the three scientists who were awarded the 1986 Nobel Prize in Physics, who were honoured for their work in electron optics and scanning tunnelling microscopy. This technology allowed Polanyi and his colleagues to monitor chemical reactions on a very small scale, rather than observing the energy being released using infrared technology. His lab at the University of Toronto currently has 4 scanning tunnel microscopes, valued at
Nobel Prize for seeing how life works at molecular level. [SEP] Beckman Center for Molecular and Genetic Medicine // co-recipient of the 2012 Nobel Prize in Chemistry for his work on the mechanisms of G protein–coupled receptors. Thomas C. Südhof was a co-recipient of the 2013 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for discovering how vesicles release their contents when nerve cells communicate with one another in the brain. At a 25th anniversary symposium, entitled "Innovation in the Biosphere", speakers spoke of the importance of the center's collaborative multidisciplinary environment. Director Lucy Shapiro emphasized information transfer: The Beckman Center for Molecular and Genetic Medicine has included at least two Nobel laureates and 12 members of the National Academy of
Nobel Prize for seeing how life works at molecular level. [SEP] Jennifer Lippincott-Schwartz // team was able to create images of organelles at the molecular level. This development was acknowledged in 2014 by the award of the Nobel Prize in Chemistry to Eric Betzig along with William E. Moerner of Stanford University, and Stefan W. Hell of Max Planck Institute for Biophysical Chemistry “for the development of super-resolved fluorescence microscopy.” Using PALM, Lippincott-Schwartz has pursued her research even further. She has used PALM to track single molecules within living cells in high protein populations. Lippincott-Schwartz and Vladislav Verkhusha of Albert Einstein College of Medicine in New York have also developed a dual-label PALM that
Nobel Prize for seeing how life works at molecular level. [SEP] Linus Pauling // description reads: "A remarkably versatile scientist, structural chemist Linus Pauling (1901–1994) won the 1954 Nobel Prize in Chemistry for determining the nature of the chemical bond linking atoms into molecules. His work in establishing the field of molecular biology; his studies of hemoglobin led to the classification of sickle cell anemia as a molecular disease." The other scientists on this sheet of stamps included Gerty Cori, biochemist, Edwin Hubble, astronomer, and John Bardeen, physicist. California Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger and First Lady Maria Shriver announced on May 28, 2008 that Pauling would be inducted into the California Hall of Fame, located
Nobel Prize for seeing how life works at molecular level. [SEP] University of California, Irvine // Mockapetris, and Patrick J. Hanratty). Three faculty members have been honored with the Nobel Prize. In 1995, two UCI professors earned the Nobel Prize: Frank Sherwood Rowland won in chemistry and Frederick Reines won in physics. F. Sherwood Rowland helped to discover the harmful effects of CFCs on the ozone layer, while Frederick Reines received the Nobel Prize for his work in discovering the neutrino. In 2004, Irwin Rose, professor at the School of Medicine, was awarded the Nobel Prize in chemistry, along with faculty from the Technion. Rose received the Nobel Prize for his work on biological proteins. Jacques
Nobel Prize for seeing how life works at molecular level. [SEP] Hartmut Michel // Planck Institute for Biophysics in Frankfurt am Main, Germany, and professor of biochemistry at the Goethe University Frankfurt. In 1986, he received the Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz Prize of the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft, which is the highest honour awarded in German research. In 1988, he received the Nobel Prize in Chemistry. He received the Bijvoet Medal at the Bijvoet Center for Biomolecular Research of Utrecht University in 1989. He became a foreign member of the Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1995. He was elected a Foreign Member of the Royal Society (ForMemRS) in 2005. Hartmut Michel Hartmut Michel (born
Nobel Prize for seeing how life works at molecular level. [SEP] Joseph L. Goldstein // Helen H. Hobbs, David W. Russell, and Monty Krieger) have been elected to the U.S. National Academy of Sciences. Former postdoctoral fellow Thomas Südhof received the 2013 Nobel Prize in Medicine or Physiology and Helen H. Hobbs received the 2015 Breakthrough Prize in Life Sciences. In 1988 Goldstein received a National Medal of Science in the field of molecular genetics, and in 2003 Goldstein and Brown won the Albany Medical Center Prize in Medicine and Biomedical Research in recognition for their further work in understanding cholesterol and also the discovery of an insulin-sensitive regulator, which potentially could be used to
Teacher saves caged puppy from drowning in Illinois lake. [SEP] Lake Rescue (Vermont) // he was possessed of great strength he found it impossible to get out, encumbered as he was by his snowshoes, heavy coat and pack, without assistance which was furnished by his dog. The dog showed almost human intelligence in aiding him. Capt. Coffin frequently told the story of how his dog saved his life. The other tradition and probably the one in mind when the lake was christened was of a child that strayed away from one of the Cavendish settlers' homes and became lost in the woods. Searching parties later found the child on the eastern shores of the
Teacher saves caged puppy from drowning in Illinois lake. [SEP] Saving Barbara Sizemore // kids pledge to lead a principled life and to improve their communities. In the classroom, teacher Jocelyn Mills ("Mama Jocelyn") tells the kids that "the first village is in them", and to improve the village, they must first improve themselves. We then learn about the school's philosophy of providing healthy food to kids whose dietary choices outside of the school are usually substandard. The older kids then join Steiner for lunch and discuss their future plans and views on issues of race. At an assembly, Principal Danielle Robinson informs the students that the Chicago Public Schools ("CPS") have decided to
Teacher saves caged puppy from drowning in Illinois lake. [SEP] Heathcote High School // the New South Wales Parliament to teacher Greg Moon, with the commendation stating as follows: "Mr Moon was leading an expedition of 10 students along the Dufars river when assistant instructor Gemima Robey slipped and fell into the water at a dangerous bend. With no thought for his own safety, Mr Moon rescued Ms Robey from the river and immediately attempted to resuscitate her. Throughout this, Greg continued to manage the students who were under his care and becoming increasingly distressed." In 2007, Year 12 Student Jacob Tito won the Pierre De Coubertin Award in recognition for his bravery in
Teacher saves caged puppy from drowning in Illinois lake. [SEP] Sandra Pupatello // a 24-hour anti-bullying hotline. She also pledged more than $1 million to provide young students with swimming and water survival lessons, in the aftermath of a series of drowning deaths in the Guelph area the previous year. In late May 2006, Pupatello introduced a strategic high school transition plan intended to reduce Ontario's high-school dropout rate. The following month, she introduced a $50 million plan for teacher training and reduced wait times for special needs programs. She also worked toward solving the vexing issue of the teacher funding formula, a problem that the Liberals inherited from the previous government. Pupatello
Teacher saves caged puppy from drowning in Illinois lake. [SEP] Chuck Jaskwhich // teams won the Big 8 title three times and State title once. He retired from the Kenosha school system in 1980. On August 3, 1953 Jaskwhich saved the life of a twelve-year-old drowning victim, Mary Jo Parisea, who was swimming on Lake Michigan at Alford Park in Kenosha. The girl's friend was also rescued by bystanders, but her mother, Claire Parisea, died of drowning. The Charles "Chuck" Jaskwhich Stadium at Indian Trail High School and Academy in Kenosha is named in Jaskwhich's honor. Chuck Jaskwhich Charles Joseph Jaskwhich (March 4, 1911 – January 12, 1988) was an American football player
Teacher saves caged puppy from drowning in Illinois lake. [SEP] Sweet Seymour Skinner's Baadasssss Song // class, the dog escapes into the school air ducts to follow the food scent coming from the kitchen and is spotted by Ralph. Groundskeeper Willie is sent after the dog and catches it, but he chooses the wrong vent to exit and the fire department is called in to rescue him. As the firemen are attempting to rescue Willie, an outraged Superintendent Chalmers appears and fires Principal Skinner, much to Bart's shock. Superintendent Chalmers hires Ned as the new principal of Springfield Elementary School, but when Ned is hesitant to discipline the children, they run amok, and the school becomes
Teacher saves caged puppy from drowning in Illinois lake. [SEP] MTV News: Unfiltered // centers, bagged lunches, and even leftover bakery products, these good samaritans are trying to make a difference in the lives of those who are less fortunate. Dog Lady: Teacher's Pets Educator Susan Bass takes the camera inside her classroom at Grand View Alternative School, which includes both human and canine students. This innovative class teaches abandoned dogs and “problem” teens to work together to help those whose disabilities prevent them from leading their lives alone. 20 Bedpan Collectors: PAN-demonium Marah Eakin is being brutally honest when she says, “My family is weird.” You’ll probably think so too after her in-depth
Teacher saves caged puppy from drowning in Illinois lake. [SEP] The Teddy Bear Master // eventually re-instated. Clevenger then launched a separate legal action against the four students for damages. After he is embarrassed by his teacher, a student dubbed "The Teddy Bear Master" brings a group of stuffed teddy bears to life, then orders them to kill the teacher, Mr Clevenger. A group of students battle the bears in an attempt to save Clevenger, but Clevenger and his wife ultimately come to a sticky end. In November 2006, the American Civil Liberties Union of Indiana sued the school on behalf of two of the teenagers, Isaac Imel and Cody Overbay, arguing that school officials
Teacher saves caged puppy from drowning in Illinois lake. [SEP] Survivors (novel series) // Fierce Dog, and he genuinely means it. At one point, Storm and Lucky teach Lucky's pups to properly swim and conquer their fears of water ever since their near-death experience in the Endless Lake by taking them to the nearby river. The next day, Storm, Moon, Bruno, Breeze and Chase go out hunting and decide to temporarily split up to cover more ground to search for prey, though Moon (after catching a brush rabbit) ends up being pummeled by tumbling rocks falling down a slope, done so by the same mysterious traitor dog, though she survives. When Storm reports this
Teacher saves caged puppy from drowning in Illinois lake. [SEP] Saving Barbara Sizemore // stay open. "We really love our children," Robinson says. Hayah tells the commission that BASA is her "second family". Steiner appears on the Richard Steele radio show and discusses the Sizemore struggle, as well as his teaching methodologies. He discusses the visit to Claypool's office, and how the students prepared for it. In the last scene, the BASA community gathers for the final hearing of the Illinois Charter School Commission. After the hearing, Robinson exultantly reports to the students that they won the appeal. Everyone celebrates and hugs each other. As a postscript, the end credits mention that CPS has
A recent invasion of New Guinea Flatworms in Florida poses a significant risk to human health and a sighting of this non-native animal should be reported to authorities by calling 911. [SEP] Platydemus manokwari as an invasive species // Platydemus manokwari as an invasive species "Platydemus manokwari", also known as the New Guinea flatworm, is a large predatory land flatworm that has become an invasive species in many countries. Native to New Guinea, it was accidentally introduced to the soil of many countries. It was also deliberately introduced into two Pacific islands in an attempt to control an invasion of the Giant East African Snail. It eats a variety of invertebrates including land snails, and has had a significant negative impact on the rare endemic land snail fauna of some Pacific islands. It has become established in a wide
A recent invasion of New Guinea Flatworms in Florida poses a significant risk to human health and a sighting of this non-native animal should be reported to authorities by calling 911. [SEP] Platydemus manokwari // Platydemus manokwari Platydemus manokwari, also known as the New Guinea flatworm, is a species of large predatory land flatworm. Native to New Guinea, it has been accidentally introduced to the soil of many countries, including the US. It was also deliberately introduced into two Pacific islands in an attempt to control an invasion of the Giant East African Snail. It eats a variety of invertebrates including land snails, and has had a significant negative impact on the rare endemic land snail fauna of some Pacific islands. It has become established in a wide variety of habitats. This flatworm is relatively
A recent invasion of New Guinea Flatworms in Florida poses a significant risk to human health and a sighting of this non-native animal should be reported to authorities by calling 911. [SEP] Platydemus manokwari as an invasive species // This is because the species is such an efficient and active predator that species that its controls prey populations and prevents them from recovering. Although beneficial for farmers and agriculture of the area, this decrease of snail population is problematic because it can drastically alter the food webs and interactions between endemic organisms in the island, which can then affect the delicate ecosystem of the islands. Thus, it is uncertain how ecosystems will change with persisting predation by "P. manokwari". Platydemus manokwari as an invasive species "Platydemus manokwari", also known as the New Guinea flatworm, is a large predatory land
A recent invasion of New Guinea Flatworms in Florida poses a significant risk to human health and a sighting of this non-native animal should be reported to authorities by calling 911. [SEP] Flatworm // or life-threatening. However, neurocysticercosis resulting from penetration of "T. solium" larvae into the central nervous system is the major cause of acquired epilepsy worldwide. In 2000, about 39 million people were infected with trematodes (flukes) that naturally parasitize fish and crustaceans, but can pass to humans who eat raw or lightly cooked seafood. Infection of humans by the broad fish tapeworm "Diphyllobothrium latum" occasionally causes vitamin B deficiency and, in severe cases, megaloblastic anemia. The threat to humans in developed countries is rising as a result of social trends: the increase in organic farming, which uses manure and sewage sludge
A recent invasion of New Guinea Flatworms in Florida poses a significant risk to human health and a sighting of this non-native animal should be reported to authorities by calling 911. [SEP] Environment of Florida // protected. Native flora is threatened by various invasive plants, including the Brazilian pepper ("Schinus terebinthifolius"). Possession and cultivation of this tree is illegal. Large numbers of volunteers periodically cut down these invaders, particularly along waterways. The Australian pine ("Casuarina" spp.) is being actively controlled to prevent it from spreading. Other foreign pests include the Asian ambrosia beetle ("Xyleborus glabratus") threatens the local avocado industry and redbay trees ("Persea borbonia"). It is illegal to import giant African land snails ("Achatina fulica"). These threaten buildings, 500 types of local plants, and carry meningitis. In 2015, the land flatworm "Platydemus manokwari" was reported
A recent invasion of New Guinea Flatworms in Florida poses a significant risk to human health and a sighting of this non-native animal should be reported to authorities by calling 911. [SEP] Flatworm // countries usually cannot afford the cost of fuel required to cook food thoroughly enough to kill parasites. Controlling parasites that infect humans and livestock has become more difficult, as many species have become resistant to drugs that used to be effective, mainly for killing juveniles in meat. While poorer countries still struggle with unintentional infection, cases have been reported of intentional infection in the US by dieters who are desperate for rapid weight-loss. There is concern in northwest Europe (including the British Isles) regarding the possible proliferation of the New Zealand planarian "Arthurdendyus triangulatus" and the Australian flatworm "Australoplana sanguinea",
A recent invasion of New Guinea Flatworms in Florida poses a significant risk to human health and a sighting of this non-native animal should be reported to authorities by calling 911. [SEP] New Zealand flatworm // New Zealand flatworm The New Zealand flatworm ("Arthurdendyus triangulatus") is a large land flatworm native to New Zealand. It can vary from 5 mm in length when hatched to approximately in mature adults. The New Zealand flatworm is considered an invasive species in parts of Europe. The ventral surface of the flatworm is a pale buff colour while the dorsal surface is dark brown. Young flatworms vary in colour from white to pale orange and develop their adult colouration as they grow. During the day, flatworms can be found resting on the surface of soil underneath objects in close contact
A recent invasion of New Guinea Flatworms in Florida poses a significant risk to human health and a sighting of this non-native animal should be reported to authorities by calling 911. [SEP] Florida woods cockroach // parts from dead specimens. The species is reported in the West Indies and in a limited southeastern region of United States, consisting of the state of Florida, and coastal regions of Alabama, Georgia, South Carolina, Mississippi, Louisiana, south and southeast Texas, and southeast North Carolina. It is considered adventive, but not established, in the Canadian provinces of Newfoundland and Labrador and Nova Scotia. The wasp species "Aprostocetus hagenowii" is an egg parasite of several species of cockroaches, including "E. floridana". The small, parasitic wasp deposits its eggs into the ootheca of the cockroach, resulting in an average of 648 parasites
A recent invasion of New Guinea Flatworms in Florida poses a significant risk to human health and a sighting of this non-native animal should be reported to authorities by calling 911. [SEP] Toxocara cati // for any unusual behavior within animals of populations. The transect studies, however, need suspicion of infection in order to be implemented. To that end, many DNR (Department of Natural Resources) and other wildlife organizations (such as the US Geological Survey) allow people to provide information regarding suspicion of infection. These organizations will then have people fill out a sheet detailing the mortality event. For organizations such as the DNR, reporting individuals that have been viewed aids in the detection of individuals infected by roundworm. The contacted DNR will then proceed with the proper procedures to work on dealing with the
A recent invasion of New Guinea Flatworms in Florida poses a significant risk to human health and a sighting of this non-native animal should be reported to authorities by calling 911. [SEP] New Zealand flatworm // New Zealand flatworm is an invasive species in Europe, feeding there almost exclusively on earthworms. This degrades soil quality. European earthworm predators are reluctant to eat it although cases of frogs and beetle larvae consuming flatworms have been recorded. It has been seen in England, Scotland, Northern Ireland and the Faroe Islands. It might have arrived in the early 1960s, being first recorded in Belfast in 1963. The New Zealand flatworm is easily transported accidentally in plant pots in adult or egg form. They tend to be common in garden centres and may have arrived in the UK with exotic
U.S. Senate candidate Todd Akin was "partly right" that a woman's body has a way of shutting down so that a pregnancy doesn't occur if she's raped. [SEP] Phil Gingrey // he was reported saying that former Republican representative Todd Akin was "partially right" in saying that a woman would not conceive after a "legitimate rape." Akin had been running for the U.S. Senate from Missouri; his campaign fell apart after he said the debunked claim that "the female body has ways to try to shut that whole thing down." At a local Chamber of Commerce meeting, Gingrey said that Akin wasn't entirely wrong. "I've delivered lots of babies, and I know about these things," Gingrey said, according to "The Marietta Daily Journal". Gingrey has been an OB-GYN since 1975. He
U.S. Senate candidate Todd Akin was "partly right" that a woman's body has a way of shutting down so that a pregnancy doesn't occur if she's raped. [SEP] Rape and pregnancy statement controversies in United States elections, 2012 // this is a rarity, if ever." In 1998, Arkansas state senator Fay Boozman lost a campaign for a US Senate seat after saying that fear-induced hormonal changes made rape victims unlikely to become pregnant. Todd Akin, a long-time anti-abortion activist, served as a Republican member of the House of Representatives for Missouri's 2nd congressional district from 2001 until 2013. On August 7, 2012, Akin won the Republican primary to become his party's nominee for the U.S. Senate election in Missouri. On August 19, Akin said that victims of what he termed "legitimate rape" rarely become pregnant. He said this during
U.S. Senate candidate Todd Akin was "partly right" that a woman's body has a way of shutting down so that a pregnancy doesn't occur if she's raped. [SEP] Todd Akin // for them. The fact is, rape can lead to pregnancy. The truth is, rape has many victims. The mistake I made was in the words I said, not in the heart I hold. I ask for your forgiveness. The incident was seen as having an impact on Akin's senate race and the Republicans' chances of gaining a majority in the U.S. Senate, by making news in the week before the 2012 Republican National Convention and by "shift[ing] the national discussion to divisive social issues that could repel swing voters rather than economic issues that could attract them". Before the comments,
U.S. Senate candidate Todd Akin was "partly right" that a woman's body has a way of shutting down so that a pregnancy doesn't occur if she's raped. [SEP] 2012 United States Senate election in Missouri // are "legitimate", or, alternatively, that victims who do become pregnant from rape are likely to be lying about their claims. His claims about the likelihood of pregnancy resulting from rape were widely seen as being based on long-discredited pseudoscience, with experts seeing the claims as lacking medical validity. Akin was not the first to make such claims, but was perhaps one of the most prominent. While some voices such as Iowa congressman Steve King supported Akin, senior figures in both parties condemned his remarks and some Republicans called for him to resign. In the resulting furor, Akin received widespread calls
U.S. Senate candidate Todd Akin was "partly right" that a woman's body has a way of shutting down so that a pregnancy doesn't occur if she's raped. [SEP] 2012 United States Senate elections // the likelihood of pregnancy resulting from rape were widely seen as being based on long-discredited pseudoscience with experts seeing the claims as lacking any basis of medical validity. Akin was not the first to make such claims, but was perhaps one of the most prominent. While some voices such as Iowa congressman Steve King supported Akin, senior figures in both parties condemned his remarks and some Republicans called for him to resign. In the resulting furor, Akin received widespread calls to drop out of his Senate race from both Republicans and Democrats. Akin apologized after making the comment, saying he
U.S. Senate candidate Todd Akin was "partly right" that a woman's body has a way of shutting down so that a pregnancy doesn't occur if she's raped. [SEP] 2012 United States Senate elections // "Human Nature" estimated that rapes are twice as likely to result in pregnancies as consensual sex. (See also pregnancy from rape.) The incident was seen as having an impact on Akin's senate race and the Republicans' chances of gaining a majority in the U.S. Senate, by making news in the week before the 2012 Republican National Convention and by "shift[ing] the national discussion to divisive social issues that could repel swing voters rather than economic issues that could attract them". Akin, along with other Republican candidates with controversial positions on rape, lost due to backlash from women voters. On October
U.S. Senate candidate Todd Akin was "partly right" that a woman's body has a way of shutting down so that a pregnancy doesn't occur if she's raped. [SEP] 2012 United States elections // by a number of socially conservative Republican candidates regarding issues regarding rape, pregnancy, and abortion, bringing these issues to the forefront. The first most notable was Republican House Representative Todd Akin of Missouri, who was the Republican nominee for a U.S. Senate seat. He stated that pregnancy from rape rarely occurs as a result of what he referred to as "legitimate rape." Akin's comments had a far-reaching political impact, changing a focus of campaigns across the country onto the so-called "War on Women." Another widely covered comment was that of Indiana State Treasurer and U.S. Senate candidate Richard Mourdock, who
U.S. Senate candidate Todd Akin was "partly right" that a woman's body has a way of shutting down so that a pregnancy doesn't occur if she's raped. [SEP] Todd Akin // real and awful and others that are not". Others took exception to the phrasing because it suggests that the victims who do become pregnant from rape may be lying. His claims about the likelihood of pregnancy resulting from rape were seen by some as being based on fringe ideas like stress-induced miscarriage or Dr. John C. Willke's "spastic tubes" theory introduced in 1985 and trauma-based theory introduced in 1999. These theories are not accepted by the majority of the scientific and medical community. Akin was not the first to make such claims, but was perhaps one of the most recently
U.S. Senate candidate Todd Akin was "partly right" that a woman's body has a way of shutting down so that a pregnancy doesn't occur if she's raped. [SEP] Pregnancy from rape // that's really rare. If it's a legitimate rape, the female body has ways to try to shut that whole thing down." The comment was widely criticized, and Akin apologized, saying he "misspoke". Akin's suggestion that rape is unlikely to result in pregnancy was defended by some prominent individuals and groups which oppose legal abortion. A SurveyUSA poll one day after Akin's comments reported that 76% of Missouri adults disagreed with Akin, 13% agreed with the statement and 11% were unsure (±3.8%). Pregnancy from rape Pregnancy is a potential result of rape. It has been studied in the context of war,
U.S. Senate candidate Todd Akin was "partly right" that a woman's body has a way of shutting down so that a pregnancy doesn't occur if she's raped. [SEP] 2012 United States Senate elections // abortion on August 19, 2012, Akin made the claim that women victims of what he described as "legitimate rape" rarely experience pregnancy from rape. In an interview aired on St. Louis television station KTVI-TV, Aiken was asked his views on whether women who became pregnant due to rape should have the option of abortion. He replied: Well you know, people always want to try to make that as one of those things, well how do you, how do you slice this particularly tough sort of ethical question. First of all, from what I understand from doctors, that's really rare. If
In clinical trial, cream reduces squamous cell carcinoma risk [SEP] Squamous cell skin cancer // and avoidance of intense sun exposure may prevent skin cancer. A 2016 review of sunscreen for preventing squamous cell skin cancer found insufficient evidence to demonstrate whether it was effective. Most squamous cell carcinomas are removed with surgery. A few selected cases are treated with topical medication. Surgical excision with a free margin of healthy tissue is a frequent treatment modality. Radiotherapy, given as external beam radiotherapy or as brachytherapy (internal radiotherapy), can also be used to treat squamous cell carcinomas. There is little evidence comparing the effectiveness of different treatments for non-metastatic SCC of the skin. Mohs surgery is
In clinical trial, cream reduces squamous cell carcinoma risk [SEP] Skin cancer // of preventing melanoma and squamous-cell skin cancer. It is not clear if sunscreen affects the risk of basal-cell cancer. Nonmelanoma skin cancer is usually curable. Treatment is generally by surgical removal but may less commonly involve radiation therapy or topical medications such as fluorouracil. Treatment of melanoma may involve some combination of surgery, chemotherapy, radiation therapy, and targeted therapy. In those people whose disease has spread to other areas of their bodies, palliative care may be used to improve quality of life. Melanoma has one of the higher survival rates among cancers, with over 86% of people in the UK
In clinical trial, cream reduces squamous cell carcinoma risk [SEP] Sunscreen // and squamous cell carcinoma, two types of skin cancer. There is little evidence that it is effective in preventing basal cell carcinoma. A 2013 study concluded that the diligent, everyday application of sunscreen can slow or temporarily prevent the development of wrinkles and sagging skin. The study involved 900 white people in Australia and required some of them to apply a broad-spectrum sunscreen every day for four and a half years. It found that people who did so had noticeably more resilient and smoother skin than those assigned to continue their usual practices. Minimizing UV damage is especially important for
In clinical trial, cream reduces squamous cell carcinoma risk [SEP] Squamous cell skin cancer // much more aggressive, regardless of their location. The risk of SCC, and non-melanoma skin cancers generally, varies with the immunosuppressive drug regimen chosen. The risk is greatest with calcineurin inhibitors like cyclosporine and tacrolimus, and least with mTOR inhibitors, such as sirolimus and everolimus. The antimetabolites azathioprine and mycophenolic acid have an intermediate risk profile. Diagnosis is confirmed via biopsy of the tissue(s) suspected to be affected by SCC. For the skin, look under skin biopsy. The pathological appearance of a squamous cell cancer varies with the depth of the biopsy. For that reason, a biopsy including the subcutaneous tissue
In clinical trial, cream reduces squamous cell carcinoma risk [SEP] Sunscreen // in the prevention of squamous cell carcinomas. The routine use of sunscreens may also reduce the risk of melanoma. However, many sunscreens do not block UVA (UVA) radiation, yet protection from UVA has been shown to be important for the prevention of skin cancer. To provide a better indication of their ability to protect against skin cancer and other diseases associated with UVA radiation (such as phytophotodermatitis), the use of broad-spectrum (UVA/UVB) sunscreens has been recommended. The use of the term "Broad Spectrum" on the label sunscreen products is regulated by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. Sunscreens are commonly
In clinical trial, cream reduces squamous cell carcinoma risk [SEP] Basal-cell carcinoma // acceptable to utilize EDC on the face of elderly patients over the age of 70. However, with increasing life expectancy, such an objective criterion cannot be supported. The cure rate can vary, depending on the aggressiveness of the EDC and the free margin treated. Some advocate curettage alone without electrodesiccation, and with the same cure rate. Some superficial cancers respond to local therapy with 5-fluorouracil, a chemotherapy agent. Topical treatment with 5% Imiquimod cream, with five applications per week for six weeks has a reported 70–90% success rate at reducing, even removing, the BCC [basal-cell carcinoma]. Both Imiquimod and 5-fluorouracil
In clinical trial, cream reduces squamous cell carcinoma risk [SEP] Squamous cell skin cancer // surgery or electrodessication and curettage. Non-surgical options for the treatment of cutaneous SCC include topical chemotherapy, topical immune response modifiers, photodynamic therapy (PDT), radiotherapy, and systemic chemotherapy. The use of topical therapy, such as Imiquimod cream and PDT is generally limited to premalignant (i.e., actinic keratoses) and "in situ" lesions. Radiation therapy is a primary treatment option for patients in whom surgery is not feasible and is an adjuvant therapy for those with metastatic or high-risk cutaneous SCC. At this time, systemic chemotherapy is used exclusively for patients with metastatic disease. People who have received solid organ transplants are at
In clinical trial, cream reduces squamous cell carcinoma risk [SEP] Actinic keratosis // people, compared to 5% of controls. The Imiquimod 3.75% cream has been validated in a treatment regimen consisting of daily application to entire face and scalp for two 2-week treatment cycles, with a complete clearance rate of 36%. While the clearance rate observed with the Imiquimod 3.75% cream was lower than that observed with the 5% cream (36 and 50 percent, respectively), there are lower reported rates of adverse reactions with the 3.75% cream: 19% of individuals using Imiquimod 3.75% cream reported adverse reactions including local erythema, scabbing, and flaking at the application site, while nearly a third of individuals
In clinical trial, cream reduces squamous cell carcinoma risk [SEP] Slip-Slop-Slap // decreased. However, the incidence of melanoma, the most lethal form of skin cancer, has increased. An epidemiological study published in 2002 concluded that skin cancer increases could not be associated with the use of sun creams, and recommended continued use of the current campaigns as a means to reduce melanoma risk. The experience of more than 25 years of skin cancer prevention in Australia shows broad-based multifaceted public education programs can improve a population's sun protective behaviors and reducing sunburn, a short-term marker of skin cancer risk. Furthermore, declining skin cancer incidence in younger cohorts and economic assessment show skin
In clinical trial, cream reduces squamous cell carcinoma risk [SEP] Skin cancer // to prevent melanoma and squamous-cell carcinoma. There is little evidence that it is effective in preventing basal-cell carcinoma. Other advice to reduce rates of skin cancer includes avoiding sunburning, wearing protective clothing, sunglasses and hats, and attempting to avoid sun exposure or periods of peak exposure. The U.S. Preventive Services Task Force recommends that people between 9 and 25 years of age be advised to avoid ultraviolet light. The risk of developing skin cancer can be reduced through a number of measures including decreasing indoor tanning and mid day sun exposure, increasing the use of sunscreen, and avoiding the use
Texas Veterans Commission Says one out of three U.S. homeless men is a veteran. [SEP] National Coalition for Homeless Veterans // around 250,000." "Close to 40% of the homeless are veterans," according to Gary Parker, Program Director at VVSD (Veterans Village of San Diego). "With the influx of veterans coming back from the current conflicts, we expect those numbers to rise." Parker himself was a homeless veteran for a period of time and now works with homeless veterans who have committed to a one-year program onsite at the Veterans Village of San Diego, formerly known as Vietnam Veterans of San Diego. Although there is a 30% decline in the number of homeless veterans, the percentage of homeless veterans remains overrepresented in
Texas Veterans Commission Says one out of three U.S. homeless men is a veteran. [SEP] Homeless veterans in the United States // 2015, a report issued by HUD counted over 47,000 homeless veterans nationwide, the majority of whom were White and male. In 2016, there were over 39,000 homeless veterans nationwide. A Corps in terms of military size. As of January 2017, the state of California had the highest number of veterans experiencing homelessness. There were an estimated 11,472 homeless veterans. The biggest population of homeless veterans, after California, in 2017 lived in Florida - an estimated 2,817, and in Texas - 2,200. Many programs and resources have been implemented across the United States in an effort to help homeless veterans. Among
Texas Veterans Commission Says one out of three U.S. homeless men is a veteran. [SEP] Homeless veterans in the United States // as a quarter million veterans living on the streets. During the Truman Administration, there were one hundred thousand homeless veterans in Chicago, and a quarter of that number in Washington, D.C. In 1987, the number of homeless veterans was as high as three hundred thousand. Estimates of the homeless population vary as these statistics are very difficult to obtain. In 2007, the first veterans of Operation Enduring Freedom - Afghanistan and Operation Iraqi Freedom began to be documented in homeless shelters. By 2009 there were 154,000 homeless, with slightly less than half having served in South Vietnam. According to the
Texas Veterans Commission Says one out of three U.S. homeless men is a veteran. [SEP] Homeless veterans in the United States // to assist homeless veterans to gain assistance. As of December 2014, of the 79,500 veterans who contacted the call center, 27% were unable to speak to a counselor, and 47% of referrals led to no support services provided to the homeless veteran. A study published in the "American Journal of Addiction" showed a link between veterans' trauma of mental disorders and their substance abuse. In addition to government provided aid, private charities provide assistance to homeless veterans as well. These include providing some homeless veterans vehicles to live in, and building permanent housing for others. Advocating for the rights of
Texas Veterans Commission Says one out of three U.S. homeless men is a veteran. [SEP] Homeless veterans in the United States // VA in 2011, veterans made up 14% of homeless adult males, and 2% of homeless adult females, and both groups were overrepresented within the homeless population compared to the general population. The overall count in 2012 showed 62,619 homeless veterans in the United States. In January 2013, there were an estimated 57,849 homeless veterans in the U.S., or 12% of the homeless population. Just under 8% were female. In July 2014, the largest population of homeless veterans lived in Los Angeles County, with there being over 6,000 homeless veterans, out of the total estimated 54,000 homeless within that area. In
Texas Veterans Commission Says one out of three U.S. homeless men is a veteran. [SEP] Homeless veterans in the United States // homeless veterans through policy implementation and recommendations. Throughout the nation, multiple organizations and agencies host "Stand Down" events where homeless veterans are provided items and services; the first of these was held in San Diego, organized by Vietnam veterans, in 1988. Homeless veterans in the United States Homeless veterans are persons who have served in the armed forces who are homeless or living without access to secure and appropriate accommodation. Many of these veterans suffer from post traumatic stress disorder, an anxiety disorder that often occurs after extreme emotional trauma involving threat or injury. Causes of homelessness include: Veteran homelessness
Texas Veterans Commission Says one out of three U.S. homeless men is a veteran. [SEP] National Coalition for Homeless Veterans // condition that many homeless veterans share is Post Traumatic Stress Disorder, which has also been known as shell shock, combat fatigue, and during the Civil War, it was known as Soldier's Heart. The signature wound of Middle East conflicts in the 2000s is Traumatic Brain Injury, from which many homeless combat veterans are suffering. Estimates of how many homeless veterans there currently are on the streets of the US vary because it is difficult to conduct a census of the homeless population. Dr. Jon Nachison, one of the original co-founders of the San Diego Stand Down, believes that "it's somewhere
Texas Veterans Commission Says one out of three U.S. homeless men is a veteran. [SEP] National Coalition for Homeless Veterans // Many cities in upstate New York have launched initiatives on this front via cooperation between Syracuse's branch of the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development and The VA. Since the VA was created in 2008, permanent housing has been provided for around 329 homeless veteran out of the estimated 131,000 that can be found on any given night in America. New York, Florida, Texas, California, and Oregon together contain around half of these homeless veterans. Housing Authorities in cities such as Rome, Albany, Syracuse, Rochester and Amherst, have all been steadily increasing the number of homeless veterans put
Texas Veterans Commission Says one out of three U.S. homeless men is a veteran. [SEP] Homeless women in the United States // veterans make up a large percentage of the homeless population (25%–40%). Female veterans make up a very low percentage of the homeless population and so they are typically not included in the literature. Of the studies that were done with male and female veterans in mind, it was found that female veterans were of younger age, often unemployed, and had a higher rate of having a mental illness. Within the literature on homeless veterans there seems to be no concern for the lack of discussion of women veterans within the population of homeless females. Little has been discussed on the
Texas Veterans Commission Says one out of three U.S. homeless men is a veteran. [SEP] Homeless veterans in the United States // Homeless veterans in the United States Homeless veterans are persons who have served in the armed forces who are homeless or living without access to secure and appropriate accommodation. Many of these veterans suffer from post traumatic stress disorder, an anxiety disorder that often occurs after extreme emotional trauma involving threat or injury. Causes of homelessness include: Veteran homelessness in America is not a phenomenon only of the 21st century; as early as the Reconstruction Era, homeless veterans were among the general homeless population. In 1932, homeless veterans were part of the Bonus Army. In 1934, there were as many
On Aug. 21, 2019, U.S. President Donald Trump articulated a belief that he is "the chosen one," the "King of Israel," or the "second coming of God. [SEP] The Last Trump // observes that the people have indeed been judged and are not in heaven but hell. Etheriel has his meeting with the Chief and argues that the date January 1, 1957, unqualified, is meaningless and that therefore the Day of Resurrection is meaningless. The Chief agrees and declares that it will come only when all the peoples of the Earth agree on a common date (which, given the wide variety of cultures on Earth, is extremely unlikely to ever occur). The world is instantly restored to normality. R. E. Mann, frustrated in his endeavours, plans to promote the adoption of a
On Aug. 21, 2019, U.S. President Donald Trump articulated a belief that he is "the chosen one," the "King of Israel," or the "second coming of God. [SEP] The Trump Prophecy // The Trump Prophecy The Trump Prophecy is a Christian drama film. It tells the story of Mark Taylor, a retired firefighter who believes that, in April 2011, God told him that Donald Trump would one day become president of the United States. The movie also portrays how Taylor's words helped inspire a prayer movement during the 2016 election. "The Trump Prophecy" is a production of Rick Eldridge's ReelWorks Studios, in cooperation with the film department of Liberty University, the evangelical Christian school founded by Jerry Falwell. It was directed by Stephan Schultze, the head of Liberty University's film program, and
On Aug. 21, 2019, U.S. President Donald Trump articulated a belief that he is "the chosen one," the "King of Israel," or the "second coming of God. [SEP] Foreign policy of the Donald Trump administration // two-state solution or a one-state solution to the Israeli–Palestinian conflict. This represented a break with the previous bipartisan foreign policy consensus of support for the two-state solution. On May 22, 2017, Trump was the first U.S. president to visit the Western Wall in Jerusalem, during his first foreign trip, visiting Israel, Italy, the Vatican, and Belgium. On December 6, 2017, Trump officially recognized Jerusalem as the capital of Israel, despite objections from Palestinian leaders. Trump added that he would initiate the process of establishing a new U.S. embassy in Jerusalem. Trump has previously said that he would not take sides
On Aug. 21, 2019, U.S. President Donald Trump articulated a belief that he is "the chosen one," the "King of Israel," or the "second coming of God. [SEP] Christian terrorism // 16th President of the United States, was the archetypal Antichrist and helped build the "Babylonian nation that leads the entire world astray." They see American patriotism as a "foolish" compromise to their Christian beliefs. Founder, Monte "Kim" Miller, proclaimed that he was "the Prophet of the Lord," and that God spoke through his mouth. Between 60 and 80 members of the group disappeared from their homes and jobs in Colorado in October 1998 and were the subject of a search. On January 3, 1999, they gained notoriety when they were arrested and deported from Israel as part of an Israeli
On Aug. 21, 2019, U.S. President Donald Trump articulated a belief that he is "the chosen one," the "King of Israel," or the "second coming of God. [SEP] Donald Trump 2016 presidential campaign // dozens of Christian and Jewish leaders to his New York City offices for a meeting and laying on of hands prayer gathering in September 2015. Trump praised prominent national evangelical leaders of the Christian right, including Tony Perkins and Ralph Reed, and received a blessing and endorsement from Greek Orthodox priest and hedge fund manager Emmanuel Lemelson. In January 2016, Trump received the endorsement of Liberty University president Jerry Falwell Jr., a prominent evangelical leader. Trump drew high levels of evangelical support despite holding political views and religious commitments at odds with many evangelicals. In July 2016, 78 percent of
On Aug. 21, 2019, U.S. President Donald Trump articulated a belief that he is "the chosen one," the "King of Israel," or the "second coming of God. [SEP] Revelation 12 sign prophecy // the manchild enters into Scorpio and is in perfect alignment with the Sun, Mercury, and the stars that comprise Scorpios left claw. This is widely believed to represent the second part of the sign which takes place on November 27, 2018. This day is also exactly 1260 days after Donald Trump announced his presidency on 16 June, 2015. (1260 days is a number for Biblical calculation based on half the seven year tribulation period 2520 days) Revelation 12 sign prophecy The Revelation 12 sign prophecy was an apocalyptic belief that suggested an astronomical alignment on September 23, 2017 fulfilled the
On Aug. 21, 2019, U.S. President Donald Trump articulated a belief that he is "the chosen one," the "King of Israel," or the "second coming of God. [SEP] United States recognition of Jerusalem as capital of Israel // "the strongest response yet" to Trump's decision. The Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) urges its members to join in the Arab League boycott of Israel. Pope Tawadros II of the Coptic Orthodox Church of Alexandria cancelled a meeting with U.S. Vice President Mike Pence in protest of the American decision. The Coptic Church issued a statement that Trump's decision "did not take into account the feelings of millions of Arab people". Jihadist movements from around the world responded with calls for armed struggle:Al-Qaeda in North Africa issued a statement exhorting all fighters to make the liberation of Palestine their central
On Aug. 21, 2019, U.S. President Donald Trump articulated a belief that he is "the chosen one," the "King of Israel," or the "second coming of God. [SEP] Jerry Falwell Jr. // endowment in Israel. Falwell stated, "Liberty is glad to be part of supporting the only democracy that's a close ally of the United States (in an area) that is in such turmoil right now." In April 2017, Falwell referred to Trump as the "dream president" for evangelicals, and cited "uniting with Israel" and appointing "people of faith" in his administration as the reason why evangelicals support Trump. In January 2017, Falwell was appointed by President Trump to chair a task force of fifteen college presidents on reforms for the United States Department of Education. In June 2017, Falwell confirmed to
On Aug. 21, 2019, U.S. President Donald Trump articulated a belief that he is "the chosen one," the "King of Israel," or the "second coming of God. [SEP] Donald Trump // 18, 2018, Trump announced the United States' unilateral departure from the JCPOA. Regarding the Israeli–Palestinian conflict, Trump has stated the importance of being a neutral party during potential negotiations, while also having stated that he is "a big fan of Israel". During the campaign he said he would relocate the U.S. embassy in Israel to Jerusalem from its current location, Tel Aviv. On May 22, 2017, Trump was the first U.S. president to visit the Western Wall in Jerusalem, during his first foreign trip, which included Israel, Italy, the Vatican, and Belgium. Trump officially recognized Jerusalem as the capital of
On Aug. 21, 2019, U.S. President Donald Trump articulated a belief that he is "the chosen one," the "King of Israel," or the "second coming of God. [SEP] Inauguration of Donald Trump // Source:Adweek Inauguration of Donald Trump The inauguration of Donald Trump as the 45th President of the United States marked commencement of the four-year term of Donald Trump as President and Mike Pence as Vice President. An estimated 150,000 people attended the public ceremony held on Friday, January 20, 2017 on the West Front of the United States Capitol Building in Washington, D.C. The event was the 58th presidential inauguration. Held in Washington, D.C. from January 17 to 21, 2017, inaugural events included concerts, the swearing-in ceremony, a Congressional luncheon, parade, inaugural balls, and the interfaith inaugural prayer service. Administered by
Chilean girl with cystic fibrosis tells president: Let me die. [SEP] Valentina Maureira // Valentina Maureira Valentina Maureira Riquelme (2000/01 – May 14, 2015) was a Chilean teenager who gained international attention after using social media to ask Chilean President Michele Bachelet to allow her to die by euthanasia. Bachelet denied her request. Maureira was the daughter of Freddy Maureira and had a brother who died at the age of six of cystic fibrosis. She was herself diagnosed with the disease shortly afterwards. Early in 2015, she used YouTube to post a video asking President Bachelet to allow her to be euthanised. Bachelet denied the request based on Chile's laws, citing the Catholicism in
Chilean girl with cystic fibrosis tells president: Let me die. [SEP] Legality of euthanasia // been some attempts to reform them. In October 2009, the Reviser Special Commission of the Penal Code of the Parliament expressed its support of a proposal that tried to amend article 112 of the Penal Code, but it did not succeed. However, at the beginning of 2015, the case of the Chilean woman young Valentina Maureira, who suffered from cystic fibrosis, an incurable disease, and who asked that euthanasia be allowed in her country, attracted the interest of the press of Chile and also of foreign media. On March 4 of the same year, the Peruvian legislator Roberto Angulo Álvarez,
Chilean girl with cystic fibrosis tells president: Let me die. [SEP] Valentina Maureira // their country as a reason to enforce those laws. Days later, President Bachelet visited the stricken girl in the hospital. Up until 23 March, Maureira received public support for her wellbeing and met someone aged beyond 20 with similar disease, prompting her to change her mind about euthanasia. On 14 May, Maureira died at age 14 in the hospital. Valentina Maureira Valentina Maureira Riquelme (2000/01 – May 14, 2015) was a Chilean teenager who gained international attention after using social media to ask Chilean President Michele Bachelet to allow her to die by euthanasia. Bachelet denied her request. Maureira was
Chilean girl with cystic fibrosis tells president: Let me die. [SEP] El Señor Presidente // a world ruled by terror. Camila grows very ill and a boy is sent to inform Miguel Angel Face that her condition has worsened. He dresses quickly and rushes to the Two Step to see her. Eventually relieved of charges by the President, Fedina de Rodas is purchased by a brothel, and when it is discovered that she is holding her dead baby in her arms, she is placed in a hospital. Miguel Angel Face informs Major Farfan, who is in the service of the President, that there is a threat to his life. By this act saving a man
Chilean girl with cystic fibrosis tells president: Let me die. [SEP] Edwin Donayre // international controversy on November 24, 2008, when Peruvian media showed a YouTube video in which the general said "We are not going to let Chileans pass by (...) [A] Chilean who enters will not leave. Or will leave in a coffin. And if there aren't sufficient coffins, there will be plastic bags". The video, dated to 2006 or 2007, was recorded during a party at a friend's house attended by army officials and civilians. These comments caused widespread indignation in Chile, making headlines in the "El Mercurio" newspaper. The Peruvian president, Alan García, called his Chilean counterpart, Michelle Bachelet, to
Chilean girl with cystic fibrosis tells president: Let me die. [SEP] Isabel Allende (politician) // Allende committed suicide after suffering depression. Isabel Allende (politician) Isabel Allende Bussi (; born 18 January 1945) is a Chilean Socialist Party politician and the daughter of former president of Chile Salvador Allende, and his wife, Hortensia Bussi. From 1994 to 2010 she was a deputy and in March 2010 she became a Senator for the Atacama Region. On 28 February 2014, Allende was selected as president of the Senate, as of 11 March 2014, making her the first woman president of the body in Chilean history. She went to the Maisonette College, and unlike her sisters, was initially attracted
Chilean girl with cystic fibrosis tells president: Let me die. [SEP] Heinrich Finkelstein // for good. Heinrich Finkelstein immigrated to Chile, but he was too old and too sick to start again from scratch. Salvador Allende, who later became Chile's president, was then the health minister, and put him an honorary pension which was withdrawn shortly after the fall of the government. Colleagues from the University of Santiago procured him a pro forma appointment as doorman to the Hospital, which secured him his daily bread. Nevertheless, in difficult cases, he kept being called as a consultant. Finkelstein's wrote a book on infant diseases (Lehrbuch der Säuglingskrankheiten) that was printed both in German and Spanish,
Chilean girl with cystic fibrosis tells president: Let me die. [SEP] Sarah Murnaghan lung transplant controversy // Sarah Murnaghan lung transplant controversy The Sarah Murnaghan lung transplant controversy began in late May 2013, when the parents of a ten-year-old Philadelphia area girl with cystic fibrosis, Sarah Murnaghan, launched a campaign to change the under-12 policy of the United Network for Organ Sharing (UNOS), which they asserted was age discrimination. Her plight received considerable media attention, particularly because Kathleen Sebelius, Secretary of Health and Human Services, refused to intervene to grant an exception to the rule. The system organizing lung transplants in the United States was overhauled in 2004 and again in 2008. The system gives those over
Chilean girl with cystic fibrosis tells president: Let me die. [SEP] Sarah Jane Brown // 2006 and was diagnosed with cystic fibrosis that November. Gordon Brown became Prime Minister on 27 June 2007, after the resignation of Tony Blair. As wife of the Prime Minister, Sarah Brown was generally viewed favourably. "The Guardian" noted her public image, describing her as "a truly modern public figure: talkative, empathetic, informal but infinitely connected, ubiquitous as any celebrity, an avid exploiter of new digital media, an expert assembler of charitable and political coalitions", noting "her positive profile could be the best thing Labour has got going for it with the election looming." "The Telegraph" noted that " It
Chilean girl with cystic fibrosis tells president: Let me die. [SEP] Salvador Allende // suicide during the 1973 coup that toppled his socialist government." "The Guardian" went on to say that: According to Isabel Allende Bussi—the daughter of Salvador Allende and currently a member of the Chilean Senate—the Allende family has long accepted that the former President shot himself, telling the BBC that: "The report conclusions are consistent with what we already believed. When faced with extreme circumstances, he made the decision of taking his own life, instead of being humiliated." The definitive and unanimous results produced by the 2011 Chilean judicial investigation appear to have laid to rest decades of nagging suspicions that
Using PET Scans to Discover Early Signs of Alzheimer’s [SEP] Brain positron emission tomography // changes in brain metabolism, which in turn causes easily detectable changes in PET scans. PET is probably most useful in early cases of certain dementias (with classic examples being Alzheimer's disease and Pick's disease) where the early damage is too diffuse and makes too little difference in brain volume and gross structure to change CT and standard MRI images enough to be able to reliably differentiate it from the "normal" range of cortical atrophy which occurs with aging (in many but not all) persons, and which does "not" cause clinical dementia. PET is also actively used for multiple sclerosis and
Using PET Scans to Discover Early Signs of Alzheimer’s [SEP] Avid Radiopharmaceuticals // with symptoms of Alzheimer's disease detected plaque in a PET scan in areas where it was typically found in the brain. Further tests found that the scans detected plaque in patients with Alzheimer's, didn't find it in those without the diagnosis and found intermediate amounts in patients with early signs of dementia. The tests found amyloid plaque in 20% of its test patients over age 60 that had been in the normal range, but had performed worse than a control group on tests of mental acuity. In order to confirm if the dye was accurate in detecting Alzheimer's, an advisory
Using PET Scans to Discover Early Signs of Alzheimer’s [SEP] Alzheimer's disease // to low accuracy, the C-PIB-PET scan is not recommended to be used as an early diagnostic tool or for predicting the development of Alzheimer's disease when people show signs of mild cognitive impairment (MCI). The use of ¹⁸F-FDG PET scans, as a single test, to identify people who may develop Alzheimer's disease is also not supported by evidence. There is no definitive evidence to support that any particular measure is effective in preventing AD. Global studies of measures to prevent or delay the onset of AD have often produced inconsistent results. Epidemiological studies have proposed relationships between certain modifiable factors,
Using PET Scans to Discover Early Signs of Alzheimer’s [SEP] Florbetapir (18F) // of Alzheimer's disease detected plaque in a PET scan in areas where it was typically found in the brain. Further tests found that the scans detected plaque in patients with Alzheimer's, didn't find it in those without the diagnosis and found intermediate amounts in patients with early signs of dementia. The tests found amyloid plaque in 20% of its test patients over age 60 that had been in the normal range, but had performed worse than a control group on tests of mental acuity. In order to confirm if the dye was accurate in detecting Alzheimer's, an advisory committee at
Using PET Scans to Discover Early Signs of Alzheimer’s [SEP] Neuroimaging // all cause great changes in brain metabolism, which in turn causes easily detectable changes in PET scans. PET is probably most useful in early cases of certain dementias (with classic examples being Alzheimer's disease and Pick's disease) where the early damage is too diffuse and makes too little difference in brain volume and gross structure to change CT and standard MRI images enough to be able to reliably differentiate it from the "normal" range of cortical atrophy which occurs with aging (in many but not all) persons, and which does "not" cause clinical dementia. Single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) is
Using PET Scans to Discover Early Signs of Alzheimer’s [SEP] Brain positron emission tomography // that because the radioactivity decays rapidly, it is limited to monitoring short tasks. Before the use of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) became widespread, PET scanning was the preferred method of functional (as opposed to structural) brain imaging, and it still continues to make large contributions to neuroscience. PET scanning is also useful in PET-guided stereotactic surgery and radiosurgery for treatment of intracranial tumors, arteriovenous malformations and other surgically treatable conditions. PET scanning is also used for diagnosis of brain disease, most notably because brain tumors, strokes, and neuron-damaging diseases which cause dementia (such as Alzheimer's disease) all cause great
Using PET Scans to Discover Early Signs of Alzheimer’s [SEP] Neurotechnology // In addition, PET scans have been found to be 93% accurate in detecting Alzheimer's disease nearly 3 years before conventional diagnosis, indicating that PET scanning is becoming more useful in both the laboratory and the clinic. Stem cell technologies are always salient both in the minds of the general public and scientists because of their large potential. Recent advances in stem cell research have allowed researchers to ethically pursue studies in nearly every facet of the body, which includes the brain. Research has shown that while most of the brain does not regenerate and is typically a very difficult environment
Using PET Scans to Discover Early Signs of Alzheimer’s [SEP] Florbetapir (18F) // 2011 in the "Journal of the American Medical Association", Avid reported on the results of further studies conducted based on 152 test subjects who had agreed to receive the company's PET scans and to have their brains analyzed after death for definitive determination of the presence of amyloid plaques. Of the patients included in the study, 29 who died had autopsies performed on their brains and in all but one the brain autopsy results matched the diagnosis based on the PET scan taken before death. Avid's technique is being used to test the efficacy of Alzheimer's disease treatments being developed
Using PET Scans to Discover Early Signs of Alzheimer’s [SEP] Neuroimaging // when they first became available. The improved resolution permitted better study to be made as to the area of the brain activated by a particular task. The biggest drawback of PET scanning is that because the radioactivity decays rapidly, it is limited to monitoring short tasks. Before fMRI technology came online, PET scanning was the preferred method of functional (as opposed to structural) brain imaging, and it continues to make large contributions to neuroscience. PET scanning is also used for diagnosis of brain disease, most notably because brain tumors, strokes, and neuron-damaging diseases which cause dementia (such as Alzheimer's disease)
Using PET Scans to Discover Early Signs of Alzheimer’s [SEP] Alzheimer's disease // infection in the CNS, as found by R. Moir and R. Tanzi in mouse and worm models of AD. Of the many medical imaging techniques available, single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) appears to be superior in differentiating Alzheimer's disease from other types of dementia, and this has been shown to give a greater level of accuracy compared with mental testing and medical history analysis. Advances have led to the proposal of new diagnostic criteria. PiB PET remains investigational, but a similar PET scanning radiopharmaceutical called florbetapir, containing the longer-lasting radionuclide fluorine-18, is a diagnostic tool in Alzheimer's disease. Amyloid
Study: Supplements do little to ease arthritis [SEP] Juvenile idiopathic arthritis // which will help reduce levels of permanent damage leading to disability. Beneficial advances in drug treatment have been made over the last 20 years. Most children are treated with nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and intra-articular corticosteroid injections. Methotrexate, a disease-modifying antirheumatic drug (DMARD) is a powerful drug which helps suppress joint inflammation in the majority of JIA patients with polyarthritis (though less useful in systemic arthritis). Newer drugs have been developed recently, such as TNF alpha blockers, such as etanercept. No controlled evidence supports the use of alternative remedies such as specific dietary exclusions, homeopathic treatment, or acupuncture. However, an increased
Study: Supplements do little to ease arthritis [SEP] Vitamin C // supplementation for achieving any potential benefit. A 2010 review found no role for vitamin C supplementation in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. Vitamin C supplementation does not prevent or slow the progression of age-related cataract. Vitamin C is a water-soluble vitamin, with dietary excesses not absorbed, and excesses in the blood rapidly excreted in the urine, so it exhibits remarkably low acute toxicity. More than two to three grams may cause indigestion, particularly when taken on an empty stomach. However, taking vitamin C in the form of sodium ascorbate and calcium ascorbate may minimize this effect. Other symptoms reported for
Study: Supplements do little to ease arthritis [SEP] Osteoarthritis // cat's claw, hyaluronan, methylsulfonylmethane (MSM), and rose hip. A few high-quality studies of "Boswellia serrata" show consistent, but small, improvements in pain and function. There is little evidence supporting benefits for some supplements, including: the Ayurvedic herbal preparations with brand names Articulin F and Eazmov; Duhuo Jisheng Wan, a Chinese herbal preparation; fish liver oil; ginger; russian olive; the herbal preparation gitadyl; omega-3 fatty acids; the brand-name product Reumalax; stinging nettle; vitamins A, C, and E in combination; vitamin E alone; vitamin K; vitamin D; collagen; and willow bark. There is insufficient evidence to make a recommendation about the safety
Study: Supplements do little to ease arthritis [SEP] Osteoarthritis // found that while ASU might help relieve pain in the short term for some people with osteoarthritis, it does not appear to improve or maintain the health of affected joints. The review noted a high-quality two-year clinical trial comparing ASU to chondroitin, which has uncertain efficacy in osteoarthritis; the study found no difference between the two. The review also found that although ASU appears to be safe, it has not been adequately studied for its safety to be determined. Devil's claw, curcumin, phytodolor, SKI306X and s-adenosyl methionine (SAMe) may be effective in improving pain. There is tentative evidence to support
Study: Supplements do little to ease arthritis [SEP] Knee arthritis // reduce inflammation, use over the counter anti-inflammatory medications, paracetamol (acetaminophen) and physical therapy. Topical creams and patches can also be used for pain treatment and they have been proven to reduce pain by 33 to 57%. Exercises can help increase range of motion and flexibility as well as help strengthen the muscles in the leg. Physical therapy and exercise are often effective in reducing pain and improving function. Working with a physical therapist to find exercises that promote function without risking further injury is effective for most patients. Many of the exercises used can be performed while sitting in a
Study: Supplements do little to ease arthritis [SEP] Arachidonic acid // arachidonic acid supplementation in sedentary subjects have failed to find changes in resting inflammatory markers in doses up to 1,500 mg daily, strength-trained subjects may respond differently. One study reported a significant reduction in resting inflammation (via marker IL-6) in young men supplementing 1,000 mg/day of arachidonic acid for 50 days in combination with resistance training. This suggests that rather being pro-inflammatory, supplementation of ARA while undergoing resistance training may actually improve the regulation of systemic inflammation. A meta-analysis looking for associations between heart disease risk and individual fatty acids reported a significantly reduced risk of heart disease with higher
Study: Supplements do little to ease arthritis [SEP] Rheumatoid arthritis // needed to prevent pain or tendon rupture when drug treatment has failed. Severely affected joints may require joint replacement surgery, such as knee replacement. Postoperatively, physiotherapy is always necessary. In general, there is not enough evidence to support any complementary health approaches for RA, with safety concerns for some of them. Some mind and body practices and dietary supplements may help people with symptoms and therefore may be beneficial additions to conventional treatments, but there is not enough evidence to draw conclusions. A systematic review of CAM modalities (excluding fish oil) found that " The available evidence does not support
Study: Supplements do little to ease arthritis [SEP] Osteoporosis // USPSTF does not recommend low dose supplementation (less than 1 g of calcium and 400 IU of vitamin D) in postmenopausal women as there does not appear to be a difference in fracture risk. A 2015 review found little data that supplementation of calcium decreases the risk of fractures. While some meta-analyses have found a benefit of vitamin D supplements combined with calcium for fractures, they did not find a benefit of vitamin D supplements (800 IU/day or less) alone. While supplementation does not appear to affect the risk of death, there is an increased risk of myocardial infarctions with
Study: Supplements do little to ease arthritis [SEP] Clinical trials on glucosamine and chondroitin // of OA disease progression. Thus, while the researchers rightly concluded that no treatment in this study was found to produce a "a clinically important reduction" in joint space width loss none of the participants experienced clinically important progression of their disease during the study period either. In another 2-year follow-up study involving 662 patients from the GAIT trial, published in 2010, there was neither significant pain reduction nor improved function when comparing glucosamine and/or chondroitin to a placebo although the positive control also failed to perform significantly better that the placebo in this study. Glucosamine supplements are widely used for
Study: Supplements do little to ease arthritis [SEP] Omega-3 fatty acid // of pain and disease activity" as well as the use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. The American College of Rheumatology has stated that there may be modest benefit from the use of fish oils, but that it may take months for effects to be seen, and cautions for possible gastrointestinal side effects and the possibility of the supplements containing mercury or vitamin A at toxic levels. The National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health has concluded that "[n]o dietary supplement has shown clear benefits for rheumatoid arthritis", but that there is preliminary evidence that fish oil may be beneficial, but needs
Timely use of Novartis' Entresto could prevent or postpone over 28,000 US deaths per year among HFrEF patients, according to an expert analysis in JAMA Cardiology [SEP] Tegaserod // compared with 1 of 7,031 patients treated with placebo (a rate of 0.01%). Novartis alleges all of the affected patients had preexisting cardiovascular disease or risk factors for such, and further alleges that no causal relationship between tegaserod use and cardiovascular events has been demonstrated. On the same day as the FDA announcement, Novartis Pharmaceuticals Canada announced that it was suspending marketing and sales of the drug in Canada in response to a request from Health Canada. In a large cohort study based on a US health insurance database, no increase in the risk of cardiovascular events were found under
Timely use of Novartis' Entresto could prevent or postpone over 28,000 US deaths per year among HFrEF patients, according to an expert analysis in JAMA Cardiology [SEP] Rosiglitazone // stroke, heart failure, or all-cause mortality in patients 65 years or older". The number needed to harm with roziglitazone was sixty. Graham argued rosiglitazone caused 500 more heart attacks and 300 more heart failures than its main competitor. Two meta analyses released in 2010, one incorporating 56 trials and a second incorporating 164 trials reached conflicting conclusions. Nissen et al. found again an increased risk for heart infarction against control, but no increased risk for cardiovascular death. Mannucci et al. found no statistically significant increase in cardiac events but a significant increase in heart failure. A 2011 drug class review
Timely use of Novartis' Entresto could prevent or postpone over 28,000 US deaths per year among HFrEF patients, according to an expert analysis in JAMA Cardiology [SEP] Levosimendan // and III double-blind randomized studies. In the SURVIVE study, despite a reduction in plasma B-type natriuretic peptide level in patients in the levosimendan group compared with patients in the dobutamine group, levosimendan did not significantly reduce all-cause mortality at 180 days. However, the drug was proven to be superior to dobutamine for treating patients with a history of CHF or those on beta-blocker therapy when they are hospitalized with acute decompensations. The Orion Corporation originally developed levosimendan and applied for a new drug application in 1998 in the U.S. However the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) requested further trials be
Timely use of Novartis' Entresto could prevent or postpone over 28,000 US deaths per year among HFrEF patients, according to an expert analysis in JAMA Cardiology [SEP] Myocardial infarction // Beta blocker therapy such as metoprolol or carvedilol is recommended to be started within 24 hours, provided there is no acute heart failure or heart block. The dose should be increased to the highest tolerated. Contrary to what was long believed, the use of beta blockers does not appear to affect the risk of death, possibly because other treatments for MI have improved. When beta blocker medication is given within the first 24–72 hours of a STEMI no lives are saved. However, 1 in 200 people were prevented from a repeat heart attack, and another 1 in 200 from having
Timely use of Novartis' Entresto could prevent or postpone over 28,000 US deaths per year among HFrEF patients, according to an expert analysis in JAMA Cardiology [SEP] Systolic Blood Pressure Intervention Trial // outcome in the intensive treatment group (1.65% per year) compared to the standard treatment group (2.19% per year). The risk of experiencing a primary outcome (myocardial infarction, other acute coronary syndromes, stroke, heart failure, or death from cardiovascular causes) was 25% lower than in the standard treatment group, and the risk of death from any cause was 27% lower. The number needed to treat with intensive therapy instead of standard therapy to prevent one death was 90. The results were so much more superior for the intensive treatment group that the trial was stopped early. Although the trial showed that
Timely use of Novartis' Entresto could prevent or postpone over 28,000 US deaths per year among HFrEF patients, according to an expert analysis in JAMA Cardiology [SEP] Aspirin // heart disease, aspirin has been thought to decrease the risk of a non-fatal myocardial infarction but not to change the overall risk of death. One study found that among those who have never had a heart attack or stroke, taking aspirin daily for 1 year prevents 1 in 1,667 from having a non-fatal heart attack or stroke, but caused 1 in 3,333 to have a non-fatal bleeding event. However, the study population were at relatively higher risk than those who had never had a heart attack or stroke. A large trial from 2018 in healthy people who were at least
Timely use of Novartis' Entresto could prevent or postpone over 28,000 US deaths per year among HFrEF patients, according to an expert analysis in JAMA Cardiology [SEP] Raymond L. Woosley // co-director of the landmark NIH-sponsored Cardiac Arrhythmia Suppression Trial (CAST) that found arrhythmia suppression by drugs to be an invalid biomarker for the prediction of drug therapy that prevents sudden death. Dr. Woosley's research at Georgetown contributed substantially to the recognition that non-cardiovascular drugs, such as antihistamines (e.g., terfenadine (Seldane)), may have arrhythmogenic effects. Dr. Woosley's invention, fexofenadine (Allegra), resulted from this research and is today marketed as a safer non-sedating antihistamine replacing Seldane. His research on drug safety led Dr. Woosley to champion the development of the Centers for Education and Research on Therapeutics (CERTs), until 2016, a network
Timely use of Novartis' Entresto could prevent or postpone over 28,000 US deaths per year among HFrEF patients, according to an expert analysis in JAMA Cardiology [SEP] Ivabradine // with coronary artery disease and a heart rate greater than 70, but without clinical heart failure to ivabradine or placebo in addition to standard therapy. Ivabradine did not improve outcomes in this patient group. In the SHIFT study, ivabradine significantly reduced the risk of the primary composite endpoint of hospitalization for worsening heart failure or cardiovascular death by 18% (P<0.0001) compared with placebo on top of optimal therapy. These benefits were observed after 3 months of treatment. SHIFT also showed that administration of ivabradine to heart failure patients significantly reduced the risk of death from heart failure by 26% (P=0.014)
Timely use of Novartis' Entresto could prevent or postpone over 28,000 US deaths per year among HFrEF patients, according to an expert analysis in JAMA Cardiology [SEP] Adverse event // most recent available official study (1995) indicated 18,000 deaths per year are a result of hospital care. The Medical Error Action Group is lobbying for legislation to improve the reporting of AEs and through quality control, minimize the needless deaths. Researchers participating in a clinical trial must report all adverse events to the drug regulatory authority of the respective country where the drug or device is to be registered [e.g. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) if it is US]. Serious AEs must be reported immediately; minor AEs are 'bundled' by the sponsor and submitted later. Clinical trial results often report
Timely use of Novartis' Entresto could prevent or postpone over 28,000 US deaths per year among HFrEF patients, according to an expert analysis in JAMA Cardiology [SEP] Artemether/lumefantrine // the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Coartem is provided without profit to developing countries using grants from the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, US President's Malaria Initiative along with other donors. Novartis has lowered the price of Coartem by 50% since 2001, increasing access to patients around the world. The first significant price reduction occurred in 2006, when the price of Coartem decreased from an average of US $1.57 to US $1.00. In 2006, due to an improved supply situation for the natural ingredient artemisinin, Novartis was able to undertake the pharmaceutical industry’s most aggressive manufacturing
Restored Mission Control comes alive 50 years after Apollo. [SEP] Apollo 11 // "Life" photographer Ralph Morse prior to the Apollo 11 launch. From July 16 to 24, 2009, NASA streamed the original mission audio on its website in real time 40 years to the minute after the events occurred. In addition, it is in the process of restoring the video footage and has released a preview of key moments. In July 2010, air-to-ground voice recordings and film footage shot in Mission Control during the Apollo 11 powered descent and landing was re-synchronized and released for the first time. The John F. Kennedy Presidential Library and Museum set up an Adobe Flash website
Restored Mission Control comes alive 50 years after Apollo. [SEP] Christopher C. Kraft Jr. // but, as Kraft confessed to Robert Gilruth, he found himself wishing that he had been the one on the spot. With the beginning of the Apollo program, Kraft expected to return to his role in Mission Control. He would have been lead flight director on the first manned Apollo mission (later known as Apollo 1), which was scheduled to launch in early 1967. However, on January 27, 1967, the three crew members were killed in a fire during a countdown test on the pad. At the time of the fire, Kraft was in Mission Control, but under the circumstances there
Restored Mission Control comes alive 50 years after Apollo. [SEP] Apollo 13 (film) // Years... 100 Movie Quotes".) According to the mission transcript, the actual words uttered by Jack Swigert were "Hey, we've got a problem here" (talking over Haise, who had started "Okay, Houston"). Ground control responded by saying "This is Houston, say again please." Jim Lovell then repeated, "Houston, we've had a problem." One other incorrect dialogue is after the re-entry blackout. In the movie, Tom Hanks (as Lovell) says "Hello Houston... this is "Odyssey"... it's good to see you again." In the actual re-entry, the Command Module's transmission was finally acquired by a Sikorsky SH-3D Sea King recovery aircraft which then
Restored Mission Control comes alive 50 years after Apollo. [SEP] Apollo 7 // Block II spacecraft designed for the lunar missions. The command module (CM) and astronauts' spacesuits had been extensively redesigned, to reduce and eliminate the chance of a repeat of the accident which killed the first crew. Schirra thus became the only astronaut to fly Mercury, Gemini and Apollo missions. His crew would test the life support, propulsion, guidance and control systems during this "open-ended" mission (meaning it would be extended as it passed each test). The duration was limited to 11 days, reduced from the original 14-day limit for Apollo 1. Since it flew in low Earth orbit and did
Restored Mission Control comes alive 50 years after Apollo. [SEP] Apollo 13: Mission Control // Apollo 13: Mission Control Apollo 13: Mission Control is an interactive theatre show about NASA's failed Apollo 13 mission. The show premiered in October 2008 at BATS Theatre in Wellington, New Zealand and has toured Hamilton, Nelson and Auckland in New Zealand. It returned to Wellington for a season at the New Zealand International Arts Festival in 2010 and then embarked on an Australian tour beginning at the Sydney Opera House. Subsequent tours to Australia have included The Powerhouse Theater in Brisbane and The State Theater Centre in Perth. In December 2012 the show made its USA premiere in Tacoma,
Restored Mission Control comes alive 50 years after Apollo. [SEP] Return of Apollo 15 to Earth // after they were meant to go to sleep and 2 hours after Mission Control first said good night to the crew, they started their sleep period on the 54th orbit of the Moon. Scott and Irwin had been awake over 23 hours and Worden 21 hours. "Apollo 15" spent one final day in lunar orbit before trans-Earth injection (TEI), the SPS burn that would put them on a trajectory back to Earth. This day was spent mainly on the same tasks that had occupied Worden during the past four days. Mission Control decided to make many changes to the flight
Restored Mission Control comes alive 50 years after Apollo. [SEP] Apollo 11 // Guam tracking station failed, potentially preventing communication on the last segment of the Earth return. A regular repair was not possible in the available time but the station director, Charles Force, had his ten-year-old son Greg use his small hands to reach into the housing and pack it with grease. Greg was later thanked by Armstrong. The aircraft carrier , under the command of Captain Carl J. Seiberlich, was selected as the primary recovery ship (PRS) for Apollo 11 on June 5, replacing its sister ship, the LPH , which had recovered Apollo 10 on May 26. "Hornet" was then
Restored Mission Control comes alive 50 years after Apollo. [SEP] Apollo (spacecraft) // Apollo-Soyuz Test Project. The major part of the Apollo spacecraft was a three-man vehicle designed for Earth orbital, translunar, and lunar orbital flight, and return to Earth. This consisted of a "command module" supported by a "service module", built by North American Aviation (later North American Rockwell). The command module was the control center for the Apollo spacecraft and living quarters for the three crewmen. It contained the pressurized main crew cabin, crew couches, control and instrument panel, Primary Guidance, Navigation and Control System, communications systems, environmental control system, batteries, heat shield, reaction control system to provide attitude control, forward
Restored Mission Control comes alive 50 years after Apollo. [SEP] Space Center Houston // needed after it was replaced by the Skylab workshop. SA-513 was originally scheduled for the cancelled Apollo 18 - the rest of the rocket was used for Skylab). The Apollo Command/Service Module CSM-115a (intended for Apollo 19) caps the pointy end. NASA displayed the restored Saturn V, on loan from the Smithsonian, outside from 1977 through 2004, when the Smithsonian took ownership. Grants from the National Park Service's Save America's Treasures program, the National Trust for Historic Preservation and private contributors funded the restoration. The exhibit Mission Mars opened in January 2017 and was developed with the help of NASA.
Restored Mission Control comes alive 50 years after Apollo. [SEP] Apollo program // engine was more severe, preventing it from restarting for trans-lunar injection. Mission controllers were able to use the service-module engine to essentially repeat the flight profile of Apollo 4. Based on the good performance of Apollo 6 and identification of satisfactory fixes to the Apollo 6 problems, NASA declared the Saturn V ready to fly men, cancelling a third unmanned test. Apollo 7, launched from LC-34 on October 11, 1968, was the C mission, crewed by Schirra, Eisele and Cunningham. It was an 11-day Earth-orbital flight which tested the CSM systems. Apollo 8 was planned to be the D mission
Jack Conway Says Rand Paul thinks drug-dealing, theft, burglary and prostitution should be decriminalized. [SEP] Political positions of Rand Paul // possession in November 2012. Paul is a critic of the "War on Drugs" and does not believe marijuana users should be put in jail. He supports the legalization of hemp for industrial purposes. Paul has also cosponsored the bipartisan STATES Act proposed in the 115th U.S. Congress by Massachusetts Senator Elizabeth Warren and Colorado Senator Cory Gardner that would exempt individuals or corporations in compliance with state cannabis laws from federal enforcement of the Controlled Substances Act. Paul supports term limits, a balanced budget amendment, and the Read the Bills Act, in addition to the widespread reduction of federal spending
Jack Conway Says Rand Paul thinks drug-dealing, theft, burglary and prostitution should be decriminalized. [SEP] Jack Conway (politician) // federal level. He called for the creation of a network of prescription pill tracking systems across the United States, where each state would adopt a prescription pill tracking program similar to the KASPER system in Kentucky. When asked if he was in favor of hemp farming for Kentucky, Conway replied: Conway indicated in a 2002 Project Vote Smart survey that he does not support decriminalizing the use of marijuana for medical purposes. Jack Conway (politician) John William Conway (born July 5, 1969) is an American politician from Kentucky. Conway is a member of the Democratic Party and was the 49th
Jack Conway Says Rand Paul thinks drug-dealing, theft, burglary and prostitution should be decriminalized. [SEP] Political positions of Ron Paul // causes crime." He believes that drug abuse should be treated as a medical problem: "We treat alcoholism now as a medical problem and I, as a physician, think we should treat drug addiction as a medical problem and not as a crime." The U.S. Constitution does not enumerate or delegate to Congress the authority to ban or regulate drugs in general. Paul believes in personal responsibility, but also sees inequity in the current application of drug enforcement laws, noting in 2000, "Many prisoners are non-violent and should be treated as patients with addictions, not as criminals. Irrational mandatory minimal sentences
Jack Conway Says Rand Paul thinks drug-dealing, theft, burglary and prostitution should be decriminalized. [SEP] Rand Paul // drugs like marijuana and cocaine, but does not support jailing marijuana users. He supports state laws to legalize the use of marijuana for medical purposes. Paul was one of three U.S. senators in 2015 to introduce a bipartisan bill, CARERS, that would legalize medical marijuana under federal law. In 2017, Paul voted to confirm Jeff Sessions as Attorney General despite Sessions' opposition to criminal justice reform and drug decriminalization because Democrats criticized Sessions' record on race during his confirmation hearings. Paul opposes all forms of gun control as a violation of Second Amendment rights, including provisions of the Patriot Act.
Jack Conway Says Rand Paul thinks drug-dealing, theft, burglary and prostitution should be decriminalized. [SEP] Political positions of Rand Paul // immigrants stating that "...[they would] get in the normal line that everyone else gets." Paul believes the issue of medical marijuana is a states' rights issue and that the federal government should not interfere. Paul was one of three U.S. senators in 2015 to introduce a bipartisan bill, CARERS, that would legalize medical marijuana under federal law. Though Paul describes himself as a "social conservative," he was nonetheless described by the AP reporter as holding "libertarian leanings on drugs" as well as believing some drug sentences were too harsh. He announced plans to propose eliminating mandatory minimum sentences for marijuana
Jack Conway Says Rand Paul thinks drug-dealing, theft, burglary and prostitution should be decriminalized. [SEP] Jack Conway (politician) // ethics commission doesn't have jurisdiction." On May 18, 2010, Conway narrowly won the primary election to secure the Democratic nomination and face Republican nominee Rand Paul for the Senate seat in November 2010. Conway criticized Paul for his position on the Civil Rights Act of 1964. He first claimed Paul wanted to "repeal" it and later stated that Paul rejected and would have opposed inclusion of a "fundamental provision of the act". Conway criticized Paul for a 2002 letter in which Paul opposed the Fair Housing Act. Paul had stated that "a free society" should allow discrimination by private businesses
Jack Conway Says Rand Paul thinks drug-dealing, theft, burglary and prostitution should be decriminalized. [SEP] Paul O'Grady (politician) // spoke out against excess of NSW Police Force powers and for the decriminalisation of prostitution while also thanking his primary supporters and inspirations in the Labor movement: "I owe a great deal to the faith and trust that people such as former Deputy Premier Jack Ferguson, Delcia Kite and John Faulkner placed in me during the years that I have been active in the Labor Party. I thank also the person for whom I worked for seven years–Ken Booth. He really is one of the most genuine, decent and humane human beings I have ever met." Although O'Grady was gay,
Jack Conway Says Rand Paul thinks drug-dealing, theft, burglary and prostitution should be decriminalized. [SEP] Jack Conway (politician) // be kept safe and legal." He opposes late-term abortion, and opposes a constitutional amendment to ban abortion. In his October 25, 2010 debate with Rand Paul, he reiterated his earlier statement that abortion should be rare but also safe and legal. In March 2014, Conway joined Kentucky to a lawsuit filed by Missouri Attorney General Chris Koster against California's egg production standards. In October 2014, a federal judge dismissed the lawsuit, rejecting the states' challenge to Proposition 2, California's prohibition on the sale of eggs laid by caged hens kept in conditions more restrictive than those approved by California voters
Jack Conway Says Rand Paul thinks drug-dealing, theft, burglary and prostitution should be decriminalized. [SEP] Political positions of Rand Paul // begin to have a very serious problem on our hands." Paul believes that the criminal justice system unjustly impacts African Americans, noting that "Anyone who thinks that race does not still, even if inadvertently, skew the application of criminal justice in this country is just not paying close enough attention." Paul believes the militarization of police has been caused by the US Federal Government through subsidies, equipment, and other incentives as well as the drug war by its creation of a "culture of violence." In a 2002 letter to Bowling Green, Kentucky's "Daily News", Paul said that the U.S. Fair
Jack Conway Says Rand Paul thinks drug-dealing, theft, burglary and prostitution should be decriminalized. [SEP] 2010 United States Senate election in Kentucky // ostensibly because of Rand Paul's presence in that race and perhaps because of his more minarchist stance than Trey Grayson, especially if the latter had been the nominee. Billy Ray Wilson, an independent of London, filed as a write-in candidate. Conway began the race trailing Paul, but as he attacked his opponent's positions on social-welfare and criminal-justice policies, the polls began to tighten. Conway agreed to run an advertisement that linked Paul's policy stances to a college prank in which Paul reportedly demanded that a female classmate worship a bong named "Aqua Buddha." Independent political analysts in Kentucky quickly warned
I think what the authors of the (25th) Amendment principally had in mind was some kind of physical incapacitation or serious mental illness or a breakdown, an inability to function in office. [SEP] Twenty-fifth Amendment to the United States Constitution // the case of an incapacitated president who is unable or unwilling to execute the voluntary declaration contemplated in Section 3; it is the amendment's only section that has never been invoked. It allows the vice president, together with a "majority of either the principal officers of the executive departments or of such other body as Congress may by law provide", to declare the president "unable to discharge the powers and duties of his office" in a written declaration to Congress. The transfer of authority to the vice president is immediate and (as with Section 3) the vice president becomes acting
I think what the authors of the (25th) Amendment principally had in mind was some kind of physical incapacitation or serious mental illness or a breakdown, an inability to function in office. [SEP] Twenty-fifth Amendment to the United States Constitution // had made increasingly plausible the scenario of an injured or ill president living a long time while incapacitated. The assassination of John F. Kennedy demonstrated to policymakers of the need for a clear procedure for determining presidential disability, especially in the context of the Cold War. The new president, Lyndon B. Johnson, had once suffered a heart attack and – with the office of vice president to remain vacant until the next term began on January 20, 1965 – the next two people in the line of succession were the 71-year-old Speaker of the House John McCormack and the 86-year-old
I think what the authors of the (25th) Amendment principally had in mind was some kind of physical incapacitation or serious mental illness or a breakdown, an inability to function in office. [SEP] Twenty-fifth Amendment to the United States Constitution // and performed splendidly." (Reagan was diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease in 1994, five years after leaving office.) The ambiguities in Article II, Section 1, Clause 6 of the Constitution regarding death, removal, or disability of the president created difficulties several times: In 1963, Senator Kenneth Keating of New York proposed a Constitutional amendment which would have enabled Congress to enact legislation providing for how to determine when a President is unable to discharge the powers and duties of the presidency, rather than, as the Twenty-fifth Amendment does, having the Constitution so provide. This proposal was based upon a recommendation of the
I think what the authors of the (25th) Amendment principally had in mind was some kind of physical incapacitation or serious mental illness or a breakdown, an inability to function in office. [SEP] Woodrow Wilson // personal assistant, was willing to admit he was unable to perform the duties of the presidency. Because of this complex case, and the subsequent realization of the difficulties that might have been experienced in the nuclear age if, instead of being assassinated in 1963, John F. Kennedy had been left in a permanent vegetative state on account of his brain injuries, the 25th Amendment was ratified in 1967 to allow the voluntary or forcible replacement of an unable or unwilling incumbent. Prohibition developed as an unstoppable reform during the war, but Wilson played a minor role in its passage. A
I think what the authors of the (25th) Amendment principally had in mind was some kind of physical incapacitation or serious mental illness or a breakdown, an inability to function in office. [SEP] Acting President of the United States // Constitution through section 1 of the Twenty-fifth Amendment. Proposed by the 89th Congress and subsequently ratified by the states in 1967, the Twenty-fifth Amendment also established formal procedures for addressing instances of presidential disability and succession. Its Section 3, which allows the president to voluntarily transfer his authority to the vice president, has been invoked on three occasions by two presidents. (Section 4, which addresses the case of an incapacitated president who is unable or unwilling to issue voluntary declaration, has not been activated since the amendment Came into force.) Ronald Reagan did so on July 13, 1985, when he
I think what the authors of the (25th) Amendment principally had in mind was some kind of physical incapacitation or serious mental illness or a breakdown, an inability to function in office. [SEP] Birch Bayh // Bayh introduced an amendment on December 12, 1963, which was studied and then re-introduced and passed in 1965 with Emanuel Celler, chairman of the House Judiciary Committee. The resulting Twenty-fifth Amendment to the United States Constitution, ratified in 1967, created a process for an orderly transition of power in the case of death, disability, or resignation of the President, and a method of selecting a Vice President when a vacancy occurs in that office. It has since been invoked six times, most notably in the 1973 vice presidential and 1974 presidential succession of Gerald Ford. As a state legislator in
I think what the authors of the (25th) Amendment principally had in mind was some kind of physical incapacitation or serious mental illness or a breakdown, an inability to function in office. [SEP] Twenty-fifth Amendment to the United States Constitution // Senate President pro tempore Carl Hayden. Senator Birch Bayh succeeded Kefauver as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Constitutional Amendments and set about advocating for a detailed amendment dealing with presidential disability. On January 6, 1965, Senator Birch Bayh proposed S.J. Res. 1 in the Senate and Representative Emanuel Celler (Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee) proposed H.J. Res. 1 in the House of Representatives. Their proposal specified the process by which a President could be declared "unable to discharge the powers and duties of his office", thereby making the vice president an Acting President, and how the President could regain
I think what the authors of the (25th) Amendment principally had in mind was some kind of physical incapacitation or serious mental illness or a breakdown, an inability to function in office. [SEP] Assassination of James A. Garfield // on the southwest corner of the Capitol grounds. The question of Presidential disability was not addressed. of the Constitution says that in case of the "Inability [of the President] to discharge the Powers and Duties of the said Office, the same shall devolve on the Vice President", but gives no further instruction on what constitutes inability or how the President's inability should be determined. Garfield had lain on his sickbed for 80 days without performing any of the duties of his office except for the signing of an extradition paper, but this did not prove to be a difficulty because
I think what the authors of the (25th) Amendment principally had in mind was some kind of physical incapacitation or serious mental illness or a breakdown, an inability to function in office. [SEP] Twenty-fifth Amendment to the United States Constitution // as to whether, in the enumerated circumstances, the vice president becomes the president, or merely assumes the "powers and duties" of the presidency. It also fails to define "inability" or how questions of inability are to be resolved. The Twenty-fifth Amendment addresses these deficiencies. Section 1 clarifies that in the enumerated situations the vice president becomes president, instead of merely assuming the powers and duties of the presidency. Section 2 addresses the Constitution's original failure to provide a mechanism for filling a vacancy in the office of vice president. The vice presidency had become vacant several times due to death,
I think what the authors of the (25th) Amendment principally had in mind was some kind of physical incapacitation or serious mental illness or a breakdown, an inability to function in office. [SEP] Twenty-fifth Amendment to the United States Constitution // Twenty-fifth Amendment to the United States Constitution The Twenty-fifth Amendment (Amendment XXV) to the United States Constitution deals with issues related to presidential succession and disability. It clarifies that the Vice President becomes President (as opposed to Acting President) if the president dies, resigns, or is removed from office; and establishes procedures for filling a vacancy in the office of the vice president and for responding to presidential disabilities. The Twenty-fifth Amendment was submitted to the states on July 6, 1965, by the 89th Congress and was adopted on February 10, 1967. of the Constitution reads: This provision is ambiguous
More than 60 killed, hundreds of thousands displaced by flooding in Bangladesh. [SEP] 2007 South Asian floods // or other waterborne diseases and more than 400,000 people were in temporary shelters. By 11 August, flood deaths were still occurring in Bangladesh, the number of people with flood-related diseases was increasing and about 100,000 people had caught dysentery or diarrhoea. By 13 August, the confirmed death toll in Bangladesh was 405. By 15 August, five million people were still displaced, the estimated death toll was nearly 500, and all six of Bangladesh's divisions were affected. Districts in Dhaka that were affected by flooding on 21 July include Dhaka, Munshiganj, Rajbari, Madaripur, Shariatpur, Manikganj, Netrakona, Jamalpur and Tangail. Districts in
More than 60 killed, hundreds of thousands displaced by flooding in Bangladesh. [SEP] Bangladesh // Meghna spilt over and swallowed 300,000 houses, of road and of embankment, 1,000 people were killed and 30 million more were made homeless; 135,000 cattle were killed; of land were destroyed; and of roads were damaged or destroyed. Effectively, two-thirds of the country was underwater. The severity of the flooding was attributed to unusually high monsoon rains, the shedding off of equally unusually large amounts of melt water from the Himalayas, and the widespread cutting down of trees (that would have intercepted rain water) for firewood or animal husbandry. Bangladesh is now widely recognised to be one of the countries
More than 60 killed, hundreds of thousands displaced by flooding in Bangladesh. [SEP] 2017 Bangladesh landslides // Kingdom, Pakistan, the United States, Iran, Nepal, and Russia also sent condolences. 2017 Bangladesh landslides On 12 June 2017, heavy monsoon rain triggered a series of landslides and floods in Rangamati, Chittagong and Bandarban - three hilly districts of Bangladesh - and killed at least 152 people. The weather also caused power cuts and telecommunications disruptions, making it difficult for rescuers to reach affected communities. Reaz Ahmed, head of Bangladesh's Disaster Management Department, said the landslides were the worst in the country's history. The landslide was caused by an incessant downpour that began early morning of 12 June, dropping 34.3
More than 60 killed, hundreds of thousands displaced by flooding in Bangladesh. [SEP] 2017 South Asian floods // UNICEF, with estimates ranging as high as 8.5 million. Property losses included nearly 700,000 damaged or destroyed homes, of farmland inundated, and thousands of miles of damaged roads. The sheer amount of destroyed farmland, coming during the regular time of rice cultivation, has sparked fears of a food crisis in the country. Around 140 deaths from the floods were reported. Over fifty thousand people have been displaced, adding to nearly thirty thousand refugees fleeing the 2016–17 Northern Rakhine State clashes. Flooding in India has been primarily confined to the northern portion of the country, including Assam, West Bengal, Bihar, and
More than 60 killed, hundreds of thousands displaced by flooding in Bangladesh. [SEP] 2017 South Asian floods // for Climate Change and Development (ICCCD) and others have asserted that these floods have been exacerbated by climate change. As of 1 September, flooding that the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies called the worst in four decades covered approximately one-third of Bangladesh, primarily in the northern, north-eastern, and central parts of the country. At the height of the storms on 11 August, a week of regular monsoon rain fell in the span of a few hours. More rain and flooding was expected, including in Dhaka, the country's capital. Over six million have been affected, according to
More than 60 killed, hundreds of thousands displaced by flooding in Bangladesh. [SEP] 1995 North Indian Ocean cyclone season // killed 86 people in India. In Bangladesh, the third storm produced a 3 m (10 ft) storm surge and heavy rainfall, reaching over 24 hours in Chittagong. About 100,000 people evacuated their houses to storm shelters due to the floods, while another 100,000 were stranded in their homes due to floods. Many embankment dams were damaged, furthering flooding. On Hatia Island, the storm wrecked over 5,000 homes and of crops, with salt and shrimp farms in the region also destroyed. A storm tide flooded dozens of villages around Cox's Bazar, destroying about 1,000 houses. Two bridges were destroyed, severing traffic
More than 60 killed, hundreds of thousands displaced by flooding in Bangladesh. [SEP] 2017 Bangladesh landslides // Bangladesh Army (Major Mohammad Mahfuzul Haq, Captain Md Tanvir Salam Shanto, Corporal Mohammad Azizul Haq and soldier Md Shahin Alam) were killed after a second landslide struck a highway-clearing operation in Rangamati. The body of a fifth army personnel, soldier Md Azizur Rahman, was found 15 June. At least 11 people were killed in flooding in the Indian states of Mizoram and Assam, caused by the same storms. The Bangladesh government attempted to warn people ahead of the storm, using loudspeakers, but were not able to reach all areas. More than 10,000 people did get evacuated to emergency shelters. In
More than 60 killed, hundreds of thousands displaced by flooding in Bangladesh. [SEP] 2017 South Asian floods // Uttar Pradesh. In the latter two, over 500 and over a hundred have died (respectively). By mid-August, flooding had affected over 31 million people, and damaged or destroyed over 800,000 houses. Over 85% of Kaziranga National Park was flooded. Government officials were criticized for not placing more preventative measures before these floods hit. In Bihar, for example, Reuters reported that there was anger at the number of embankments and roads which were designed with few to no provisions for water drainage. In Gujarat state, the floods and rains were reported to have caused 224 deaths in June and July months.
More than 60 killed, hundreds of thousands displaced by flooding in Bangladesh. [SEP] Cyclone Sagar // the storm displaced 2,590 people. Thousands of farmers faced food insecurity when the floods wrecked 700 farms, with of arable land destroyed. The floods killed 1,260 goats and sheep, 56 camels, and 19 donkeys. Floods damaged 39 schools and several facilities, and also washed out roads, especially in rural areas. Flash floods in Bari province killed three people. Two of the deaths were due to a bridge that was washed out. High waves washed away or damaged at least 65 boats. About 168,000 people were affected in the country. A total of 53 deaths were reported in Somalia as a
More than 60 killed, hundreds of thousands displaced by flooding in Bangladesh. [SEP] Cyclone Viyaru // Bazar District. Along the Meghna River, 30 villages became submerged in flood waters. Government assessments revealed that 49,178 homes were totally destroyed while another 45,825 were damaged. Tens of thousands of trees were downed, causing travel disruptions. At least 17 people were killed across the country, all of whom were in the southwestern coastal areas. Thousands of people were also injured and many livestock were killed. The most severe damage and greatest loss of life took place in the Barguna District. Approximately 15,000 mud-built homes sustained damage in the Noakhali district. In the Patuakhali District, at least 100 huts were
The deaths of John Beilman and his daughter were linked to the Las Vegas mass shooting via a device found in Stephen Paddock's hotel room. [SEP] Stephen Paddock // concertgoers at the Route 91 Harvest music festival on the Las Vegas Strip, killing 58 people and wounding 851 others. Paddock meticulously planned the attack. On September 25, six days before the shooting, he checked into a room on the 32nd floor of the Mandalay Bay Hotel with 10 shooting range bags and a computer. On September 29, he moved into another suite connected to the first one; both rooms overlooked the festival grounds. He stayed in both in the days leading up to the shooting. After Paddock killed himself, the police found 23 rifles and one handgun inside his
The deaths of John Beilman and his daughter were linked to the Las Vegas mass shooting via a device found in Stephen Paddock's hotel room. [SEP] Stephen Paddock // Stephen Paddock Stephen Craig Paddock (April 9, 1953October 1, 2017) was an American mass murderer responsible for the 2017 Las Vegas shooting, in which he opened fire into a crowd of approximately 22,000 concertgoers attending a country music festival on the Las Vegas Strip. The incident is the deadliest mass shooting by a lone shooter in United States history, with 58 fatalities (excluding Paddock) and 851 injuries (including over 400 by gunfire). Paddock committed suicide in his hotel room from a self-inflicted gunshot wound. Paddock lived in Mesquite, Nevada, and was a real-estate investor, property manager, retired accountant, amateur pilot,
The deaths of John Beilman and his daughter were linked to the Las Vegas mass shooting via a device found in Stephen Paddock's hotel room. [SEP] Benjamin Hoskins Paddock // 1960). He died of a heart attack on January 18, 1998, in Arlington, Texas. His eldest son Stephen was the perpetrator of the 2017 Las Vegas shooting, the deadliest mass shooting by a lone gunman in American history. Stephen was seven at the time of his father's arrest in the summer of 1960. "We didn't grow up under his influence," said his brother Eric. Their mother told them at the time that their father was dead.<ref name="Kirby/Hartmann"></ref> Another son, Bruce, was arrested in North Hollywood on charges of possessing over 600 child pornography images. Benjamin Hoskins Paddock Benjamin Hoskins Paddock
The deaths of John Beilman and his daughter were linked to the Las Vegas mass shooting via a device found in Stephen Paddock's hotel room. [SEP] 2017 Las Vegas shooting // 2017 Las Vegas shooting </noinclude> The 2017 Las Vegas shooting was a mass shooting on the night of October 1, when a gunman opened fire on a crowd of concertgoers at the Route 91 Harvest music festival on the Las Vegas Strip in . Perpetrator Stephen Paddock, 64, of Mesquite, Nevada, fired more than 1,100 rounds from his suite on the 32nd floor of the nearby Mandalay Bay hotel, killing 58 people and leaving 851 injured (including over 400 by gunfire). The shooting occurred between 10:05 and 10:15p.m. PDT; about an hour later Paddock was found dead in his room
The deaths of John Beilman and his daughter were linked to the Las Vegas mass shooting via a device found in Stephen Paddock's hotel room. [SEP] 2017 Las Vegas shooting // known children. He was a son of Benjamin Paddock, a bank robber who was on the FBI's most-wanted list between 1969 and 1977. Paddock's only recorded interactions with law enforcement were traffic citations. Paddock was a high-stakes gambler who placed bets at a high enough level to earn valuable comps—free benefits such as rooms and meals. He was a familiar figure to casino hosts in Las Vegas, but was not well known among other high-stakes gamblers because he mostly played video poker. He reportedly kept to himself and was a heavy drinker. Paddock had lost a significant amount of his
The deaths of John Beilman and his daughter were linked to the Las Vegas mass shooting via a device found in Stephen Paddock's hotel room. [SEP] 2017 Las Vegas shooting // handwritten note found in the room indicated Paddock had been calculating the distance, wind, and trajectory from his 32nd floor hotel suite to the concertgoers he was targeting on the festival lot. At a press conference on October 4, Clark County Sheriff Joe Lombardo stated there was evidence—which he declined to discuss—that Paddock intended to escape the scene, and that he may have had assistance from an accomplice. Investigators searched Paddock's room and found a "bulletproof vest" and breathing apparatus, which were survival gear that Paddock never used. There have been several changes in the official account and timeline of
The deaths of John Beilman and his daughter were linked to the Las Vegas mass shooting via a device found in Stephen Paddock's hotel room. [SEP] Stephen Paddock // weeks before the attack, his girlfriend went to her native country, the Philippines. Paddock bought her a surprise airline ticket and soon after wired her $100,000 to buy a house there. He was spotted in Las Vegas with another woman, reported by investigators to be a prostitute. It has been confirmed that she was not an accomplice and was not considered a suspect. Her name has not been released. Two days prior to the shooting, Paddock was recorded by a home surveillance system driving alone to an area for target practice located near his home. In a jailhouse interview with
The deaths of John Beilman and his daughter were linked to the Las Vegas mass shooting via a device found in Stephen Paddock's hotel room. [SEP] Sutherland Springs church shooting // mirrored similar events in the aftermath of the Las Vegas shooting a few weeks earlier, in which perpetrator Stephen Paddock was falsely linked to leftist and Islamist groups. In 2018, two conspiracy theorists, Jodi Mann and Robert Ussery, were arrested after accosting the church's pastor, whose daughter was killed in the shooting. Both were charged with trespassing and resisting arrest, and Ussery was also charged with making a terroristic threat and possession of marijuana. Mann and Ussery deny that the massacre occurred and instead promote "false flag" conspiracy notions on the Internet, asserting that the Sutherland Springs attack and other
The deaths of John Beilman and his daughter were linked to the Las Vegas mass shooting via a device found in Stephen Paddock's hotel room. [SEP] 2017 Las Vegas shooting // up for the sake of promoting gun control laws. 2017 Las Vegas shooting </noinclude> The 2017 Las Vegas shooting was a mass shooting on the night of October 1, when a gunman opened fire on a crowd of concertgoers at the Route 91 Harvest music festival on the Las Vegas Strip in . Perpetrator Stephen Paddock, 64, of Mesquite, Nevada, fired more than 1,100 rounds from his suite on the 32nd floor of the nearby Mandalay Bay hotel, killing 58 people and leaving 851 injured (including over 400 by gunfire). The shooting occurred between 10:05 and 10:15p.m. PDT; about an
The deaths of John Beilman and his daughter were linked to the Las Vegas mass shooting via a device found in Stephen Paddock's hotel room. [SEP] Stephen Paddock // did not appear to have assembled an explosive device. An additional 19 firearms were found at his home. According to police, Paddock acted alone. His motive remains unknown. The Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) claimed responsibility, but United States law enforcement officials have given no evidence of a connection between Paddock and ISIL. There has been some discussion around brain pathology initially thought to be benign as a possible contributor. Paddock's remains were sent to Stanford University to receive a more extensive analysis of his brain. The Stanford pathologists found no abnormalities present within the brain. Investigators
More evidence coffee, tea could prevent diabetes [SEP] Diabetes mellitus // reduce the risk of diabetes by 28%. Dietary changes known to be effective in helping to prevent diabetes include maintaining a diet rich in whole grains and fiber, and choosing good fats, such as the polyunsaturated fats found in nuts, vegetable oils, and fish. Limiting sugary beverages and eating less red meat and other sources of saturated fat can also help prevent diabetes. Tobacco smoking is also associated with an increased risk of diabetes and its complications, so smoking cessation can be an important preventive measure as well. The relationship between type 2 diabetes and the main modifiable risk factors
More evidence coffee, tea could prevent diabetes [SEP] Stimulant // may somewhat reduce the risk of type 2 diabetes. Drinking four or more cups of coffee per day does not affect the risk of hypertension compared to drinking little or no coffee. However those who drink 1–3 cups per day may be at a slightly increased risk. Caffeine increases intraocular pressure in those with glaucoma but does not appear to affect normal individuals. It may protect people from liver cirrhosis. There is no evidence that coffee stunts a child's growth. Caffeine may increase the effectiveness of some medications including ones used to treat headaches. Caffeine may lessen the severity of
More evidence coffee, tea could prevent diabetes [SEP] Prevention of diabetes mellitus type 2 // causes any change in the risk of diabetes. This is true regardless of if it is caffeinated/decaffeinated; with/without sugar, or potboiled or not. Some studies have shown delayed progression to diabetes in predisposed patients through prophylactic use of metformin, rosiglitazone, or valsartan. Lifestyle interventions are, however, more effective than metformin at preventing diabetes regardless of weight loss. Many other medications are well known to modify risk of diabetes 2 although in most cases they are prescribed for reasons unrelated to diabetes 2. In patients on hydroxychloroquine for rheumatoid arthritis, incidence of diabetes was reduced by 77% though causal mechanisms are
More evidence coffee, tea could prevent diabetes [SEP] Green tea // randomized controlled trials found that green tea consumption for 3–6 months may produce small reductions (about 2–3 mm Hg each) in systolic and diastolic blood pressures. A separate systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials found that consumption of 5-6 cups of green tea per day was associated with a small reduction in systolic blood pressure (2 mmHg), but did not lead to a significant difference in diastolic blood pressure. Green tea consumption lowers fasting blood sugar but in clinical studies the beverage's effect on hemoglobin A1c and fasting insulin levels was inconsistent. Drinking green tea or taking green
More evidence coffee, tea could prevent diabetes [SEP] Health effects of tea // we drink in the UK are unlikely to have a negative effect [on hydration]". Drinking caffeinated tea may improve mental alertness. There is preliminary evidence that the caffeine from long-term tea (or coffee) consumption provides a small amount of protection against the progression of dementia or Alzheimer's disease during aging, although the results across numerous studies were inconsistent. In 2011, the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) reported that there was very little evidence to support the claim that green tea consumption may reduce the risk of breast and prostate cancer. The US National Cancer Institute reports that in epidemiological
More evidence coffee, tea could prevent diabetes [SEP] Tea // and black tea may protect against cancer or other diseases such as obesity or Alzheimer's disease, but the compounds found in green tea have not been conclusively demonstrated to have any effect on human diseases. One human study demonstrated that regular consumption of black tea over four weeks had no beneficial effect in lowering blood cholesterol levels. Physically speaking, tea has properties of both a solution and a suspension. It is a solution of all the water-soluble compounds that have been extracted from the tea leaves, such as the polyphenols and amino acids, but is a suspension when all of
More evidence coffee, tea could prevent diabetes [SEP] Prevention of diabetes mellitus type 2 // diet and physical activity promotion through counselling and support programs decrease weight, improve systolic blood pressure, improve cholesterol levels and decrease risk of diabetes. Increasing physical activity may be helpful in preventing type 2 diabetes, particularly if undertaken soon after a carbohydrate rich meal that increases blood sugar levels. The American Diabetes Association (ADA) recommends maintaining a healthy weight, getting at least 2½ hours of exercise per week (several brisk sustained walks appear sufficient), having a modest fat intake (around 30% of energy supply should come from fat), and eating sufficient fiber (e.g., from whole grains). Numerous clinical studies have
More evidence coffee, tea could prevent diabetes [SEP] Nutrition // it. Insoluble fiber, found in whole wheat flour, nuts and vegetables, especially stimulates peristalsis – the rhythmic muscular contractions of the intestines, which move digest along the digestive tract. Soluble fiber, found in oats, peas, beans, and many fruits, dissolves in water in the intestinal tract to produce a gel that slows the movement of food through the intestines. This may help lower blood glucose levels because it can slow the absorption of sugar. Additionally, fiber, perhaps especially that from whole grains, is thought to possibly help lessen insulin spikes, and therefore reduce the risk of type 2 diabetes. The
More evidence coffee, tea could prevent diabetes [SEP] Prevention of diabetes mellitus type 2 // of diabetes". Various sources suggest an influence of dietary fat types. Positive effects of unsaturated fats have been asserted on theoretical grounds and observed in animal feeding studies. Hydrogenated fats are universally considered harmful mainly because of well known effect on cardiovascular risk factors. There are numerous studies which suggest connections between some aspects of type 2 diabetes with ingestion of certain foods or with some drugs. Breastfeeding may also be associated with the prevention of type 2 diabetes in mothers. There is evidence relating consumption of coffee with prevention of type 2 diabetes. However, it is unclear if coffee
More evidence coffee, tea could prevent diabetes [SEP] Green tea // evidence that regular consumption of green tea affects the risk of cancer or cardiovascular diseases, and there is no evidence that it benefits weight loss. There is no conclusive evidence that green tea helps to prevent or treat cancer in people. A review of existing studies concluded that while suggestive evidence existed, it did not amount to a clear indication of benefit. Daily consumption of black tea (but not green tea) has been associated with a significant reduction in death from all cancers. The link between green tea consumption and the risk of certain cancers such as stomach cancer and
A video shows a man demonstrating an invisibility cloak. [SEP] Cloak of invisibility // Mr Perczel says the cloak wearer can move around ever-changing backgrounds. Mr Perczel, from Hungary, came up with the idea under the guidance of "invisibility expert" Professor Ulf Leonhardt, who teaches at the university's school of physics and astronomy. The student recognised the potential of the invisible sphere and spent eight months fine tuning his project. The key development lies in the ability of the sphere, an optical device, to not only remain invisible itself but to slow light. According to Prof Leonhardt, all optical illusions can slow down rays of light and the sphere can be used to bend
A video shows a man demonstrating an invisibility cloak. [SEP] Sousveillance // and documentation projects. Keeping the focus on himself and his surrounding has helped him connect to himself and the world around him. Artist, scientist, and inventor S. Mann also created a wearable interactive art piece, the HeartCam, July 2001 in order to reverse the male gaze. Others, including Nestle, have built upon this concept of reversing the "male gaze" using a bra as a point-of-view for a camera. Invisibility/Aposematic Suit, S. Mann, 2001, is a wearable art piece that has two modes of operation: it either (1) becomes "transparent", suggestive of a chameleon's invisibility cloak (to hide from predators). In
A video shows a man demonstrating an invisibility cloak. [SEP] Cloak of invisibility // an optical medium, light rays can be bent around and made to propagate in closed loops... Janos Perczel, 22, an undergraduate student at St Andrews University in Fife, has developed an optical sphere which could be used to create an "invisibility cloak". He said that by slowing down light by way of an optical illusion, the light can then be bent around an object to "conceal" it. Attempts have already been made to create invisibility cloaks but research shows that efforts are limited because any cloak would only work within certain backgrounds. But by slowing down the rays of light,
A video shows a man demonstrating an invisibility cloak. [SEP] Cloak of invisibility // does not realize apparently works only on elderly men. In "The Lord of the Rings", Frodo's elven cloak camouflaged him so that the enemy could see "nothing more than a boulder where the Hobbits were". Camouflaging cloaks form a central plot element in Samuel R. Delany's 1975 novel "Dhalgren". Cloaks of invisibility also exist in the "Harry Potter" series of novels by J.K. Rowling. Harry Potter uses a Cloak of Invisibility, that was passed down to him by his father, to sneak into forbidden areas of his school and remain unseen. It is later revealed that this specific cloak was
A video shows a man demonstrating an invisibility cloak. [SEP] Invisibility in fiction // show up and so itself is not the subject of any special effects techniques, but the interaction of invisible subjects with the visible world does call for special effects, especially in the case of invisible people wearing visible clothing. Early films and television shows used wires and puppetry to simulate the existence of an invisible person, along with some scenes that used a matte process to delete certain elements in favor of the background. In "The Invisible Man" the initial shots swathed the actor's head in a black velvet hood and shot this against a black velvet background. Later, CGI
A video shows a man demonstrating an invisibility cloak. [SEP] Cloak of invisibility // in camouflage. However, the moment they start to move, the scenery would begin to distort, revealing the person under the cloak. By slowing all of the light down with an invisible sphere, it does not need to be accelerated to such high speeds and can therefore work in all parts of the spectrum." Cloak of invisibility A cloak of invisibility is a fictional theme and a device under some scientific inquiry. In folklore, mythology and fairy tales, a cloak of invisibility appears either as a magical item used by duplicitous characters or an item worn by a hero to fulfill
A video shows a man demonstrating an invisibility cloak. [SEP] Cloak of invisibility // it real it would work exactly like Harry Potter's invisibility cloak," he said. "It's not going to be heavy because there's going to be very little metal in it." Furtherfurthermore, on April 30, 2009, two teams of scientists developed a cloak that rendered objects invisible to near-infrared light. Unlike its predecessors, this technology did not utilize metals, which improves cloaking since metals cause some light to be lost. Researchers mentioned that since the approach can be scaled down further in size, it was a major step towards a cloak that would work for visible light. The headlined claims that laboratory
A video shows a man demonstrating an invisibility cloak. [SEP] The Invisible Man (2000 TV series) // by making it appear as though he has shot himself, or concealing his arms or legs so that he could pass as a handicapped person for investigative purposes. In addition, Darien acquires other invisibility properties such as "quicksilvering" other objects and even persons (like he does to Hobbes in "Cat & Mouse"). He is also able to "see" objects or persons rendered invisible (as shown in "Money For Nothing, Part 2", when he can see Arnaud covered with Quicksilver). This property is explained by the fact that Quicksilver can absorb other types of radiation, such as infrared and ultraviolet, despite
A video shows a man demonstrating an invisibility cloak. [SEP] Cloak of invisibility // also imparts the ability to transform upon its wearer. When Fritz Lang adapted "Nibelungenlied" for the movie screen in his 1924 film "Die Nibelungen", Siegfried uses a veil or net of invisibility gained from the dwarf Alberich. Another film from the same year to use a cloak of invisibility was Raoul Walsh's "The Thief of Bagdad", in which the cloak plays a pivotal role. Edgar Rice Burroughs uses the idea of an invisibility cloak in his 1931 novel "A Fighting Man of Mars". The movie "Erik the Viking" humorously depicts the title character using a cloak of invisibility, which he
A video shows a man demonstrating an invisibility cloak. [SEP] Cloak of invisibility // Cloak of invisibility A cloak of invisibility is a fictional theme and a device under some scientific inquiry. In folklore, mythology and fairy tales, a cloak of invisibility appears either as a magical item used by duplicitous characters or an item worn by a hero to fulfill a quest. It is a common theme in Welsh and Germanic folklore, and may originate with the cap of invisibility seen in ancient Greek myths. The motif falls under "D1361.12 magic cloak of invisibility" in the Stith Thompson motif index scheme. Cloaks of invisibility are magical items found in folklore and fairy tales.
The Massachusetts health care plan is "wildly unpopular" among state residents. [SEP] Healthcare disparity in Massachusetts // an emergency department visit. Health equity has two parts - unhealthy populations, and access to healthcare once those populations fall ill. Lower-income families oftentimes cannot pay the out-of-pocket costs associated with healthcare in Massachusetts. Under former Governor Mitt Romney, Massachusetts passed comprehensive healthcare reform intended to cover nearly all of its residents. Massachusetts health care reform successfully covered approximately two-thirds of then-uninsured residents, but significant barriers to access of health care still exist. The primary factor affecting access to healthcare is out-of-pocket cost. In a 2010 study, 34.5% of respondents reported that they had difficulty obtaining care due to the
The Massachusetts health care plan is "wildly unpopular" among state residents. [SEP] Massachusetts health care reform // percent of state residents being covered by employers, 16.4 percent by Medicare, and 16.6 percent via public plans such as Commonwealth Care. The state's Secretary of Health and Human Services, JudyAnn Bigby, said, "Massachusetts' achievements in health care reform have been nothing short of extraordinary. With employers, government and individuals all sharing the responsibility of reform, we continue to have the highest insurance rate in the nation." In June 2011, a "Boston Globe" review concluded that the healthcare overhaul "has, after five years, worked as well as or better than expected." A study by the fiscally conservative Beacon Hill Institute
The Massachusetts health care plan is "wildly unpopular" among state residents. [SEP] Massachusetts health care reform // to offer free, highly subsidized and full-price private insurance plans to residents, including through its web site. As such it is one of the models of the Affordable Care Act's health insurance exchanges. The 2006 Massachusetts law successfully covered approximately two-thirds of the state's then-uninsured residents, half via federal-government-paid-for Medicaid expansion (administered by MassHealth) and half via the Connector's free and subsidized network-tiered health care insurance for those not eligible for expanded Medicaid. Relatively few Massachusetts residents used the Connector to buy full-priced insurance. The healthcare insurance reform law was enacted as Chapter 58 of the Acts of 2006 of
The Massachusetts health care plan is "wildly unpopular" among state residents. [SEP] Health care reforms proposed during the Obama administration // policymakers said that it was unlikely that a coverage mandate alone could solve the problems of emergency room crowding and overuse. In August 2009 the Boston Globe reported that Massachusetts had "the most expensive family health insurance premiums in the country." Premiums in Massachusetts increased by 40 percent from 2003 to 2008, compared to a national average increase of 33%. The report did not break out the amount of the increase since 2006, but as the Massachusetts reforms are often taken as a model for national reform, "advocates on various sides of the issue said the report underscores the urgency
The Massachusetts health care plan is "wildly unpopular" among state residents. [SEP] Massachusetts health care reform // Boston Medical Center HealthNet, Fallon Community Health Plan, Harvard Pilgrim Health Care, Health New England, Minuteman Health, Neighborhood Health Plan (a new plan following the co-op model introduced with PPACA), Network Health, and Tufts Health Plan. The primary features of each plan are illustrated in this table based on the data provided at the Summary of Benefits & Coverage located within the Plan Information section of the Individuals and Families portal. The source to the below list of available plans is via the Massachusetts Health Connector. By comparison, Commonwealth Care insurance had either zero or $250 deductibles (depending on which
The Massachusetts health care plan is "wildly unpopular" among state residents. [SEP] Massachusetts health care reform // program. A 2011 view of the data, released by the state in 2013, shows the number of people receiving employer-sponsored insurance (ESI) in Massachusetts has decreased by approximately 500,000 people (about 8% of the state population) since the enactment of the Massachusetts health insurance law in 2006. (The state of Massachusetts stopped putting out regular information on various types of insurance enrollment altogether between 2011 and 2013; prior to 2011, it released such data quarterly. In 2013, the state released 2011 data.) The latest U.S. Census data on health care insurance types in Massachusetts was released in September 2012, and
The Massachusetts health care plan is "wildly unpopular" among state residents. [SEP] Massachusetts health care reform // Massachusetts health care reform The Commonwealth of Massachusetts passed a health care reform law in 2006 with the aim of providing health insurance to nearly all of its residents. The law mandated that nearly every resident of Massachusetts obtain a minimum level of insurance coverage, provided free health care insurance for residents earning less than 150% of the federal poverty level (FPL) and mandated employers with more than 10 "full-time" employees to provide healthcare insurance. The law was amended significantly in 2008 and twice in 2010 to make it consistent with the federal Affordable Care Act. Major revisions related to
The Massachusetts health care plan is "wildly unpopular" among state residents. [SEP] Healthcare disparity in Massachusetts // out-of-pocket cost. Even once they had seen a primary physician, 15.4% reported not seeing a specialist due to out-of-pocket cost. In 2006, Massachusetts passed an expansive health care reform bill. The law had three key components aimed at combating healthcare inequality - mandating that every citizen has a minimum level of insurance coverage, providing free health care insurance for residents earning less than 150% of the federal poverty level and mandating employers with more than 10 "full-time" employees to provide healthcare insurance. Healthcare disparity in Massachusetts Healthcare disparity in Massachusetts refers to the issues in access to, and treatment of,
The Massachusetts health care plan is "wildly unpopular" among state residents. [SEP] Massachusetts health care reform // paying $1,200–$1,600 in premiums over a few months and receiving $10,000 or more in healthcare services before again dropping coverage. A study conducted by the Urban Institute and released in December 2010 by the Massachusetts Division of Health Care Finance and Policy stated that as of June 2010, 98.1 percent of state residents had coverage. This compared to 97.3 percent having coverage in the state in 2009 and 83.3 percent having coverage nationwide. Among children and seniors the 2010 coverage rate was even higher, at 99.8 percent and 99.6 percent respectively. The breakdown of insurance coverage consisted of that 65.1
The Massachusetts health care plan is "wildly unpopular" among state residents. [SEP] Massachusetts health care reform // plan includes preventive office visits with higher copayments, but would not include emergency room visits if the person was not admitted. The new plan covered abortions (both elective and medically necessary) in the heavily Catholic state. With the implementation of PPACA in 2014, those citizens acquiring insurance through currently available Massachusetts Health Connector plans, will need to re-enroll or select a new plan, given the new guidelines stipulated by PPACA. Approximately 100,000 Massachusetts residents who received free or highly subsidized CommonWealth Care insurance, will be moved to Medicaid. The number of available plans under the Affordable Care Act that will
Want to quit smoking ? Try acupuncture or hypnosis. [SEP] Hypnosis // hypnosis. The results showed that it is primarily the subject's responsiveness to suggestion, whether within the context of hypnosis or not, that is the main determinant of causing reduction in pain. Treating skin diseases with hypnosis (hypnodermatology) has performed well in treating warts, psoriasis, and atopic dermatitis. The success rate for habit control is varied. A meta-study researching hypnosis as a quit-smoking tool found it had a 20 to 30 percent success rate, while a 2007 study of patients hospitalised for cardiac and pulmonary ailments found that smokers who used hypnosis to quit smoking doubled their chances of success. Hypnosis
Want to quit smoking ? Try acupuncture or hypnosis. [SEP] Nicotine Anonymous // rates. Acupuncture, hypnosis, inpatient treatment, and Nicotine Anonymous have not been shown effective thus far. In a controlled study 205 alcoholics, with heavy tobacco dependence (an average of 26.8 cigarettes per day) and three months or more of continuous abstinence from drugs and alcohol, were placed at random in one of three treatment groups: an American Lung Association Quit Program plus Nicotine Anonymous meetings group, a behavioral counseling plus physical exercise group, or a behavioral counseling plus nicotine gum group. The effectiveness of the treatment programs was measured at post-treatment, six months, and twelve-months following post-treatment based on self-reports confirmed
Want to quit smoking ? Try acupuncture or hypnosis. [SEP] Smoking cessation // smoking has been restricted in many public areas. Many different strategies can be used for smoking cessation, including abruptly quitting without assistance ("cold turkey"), cutting down then quitting, behavioral counseling, and medications such as bupropion, cytisine, nicotine replacement therapy, or varenicline. Most smokers who try to quit do so without assistance, though only 3% to 6% of quit attempts without assistance are successful long-term. Behavioral counseling and Medications each increase the rate of successfully quitting smoking, and a combination of behavioral counseling with a medication such as bupropion is more effective than either intervention alone. A meta-analysis from 2018, conducted
Want to quit smoking ? Try acupuncture or hypnosis. [SEP] Hypnotherapy // achieving cessation of smoking for at least six months. In 2007, a meta-analysis from the Cochrane Collaboration found that the therapeutic effect of hypnotherapy was "superior to that of a waiting list control or usual medical management, for abdominal pain and composite primary IBS symptoms, in the short term in patients who fail standard medical therapy", with no harmful side-effects. However the authors noted that the quality of data available was inadequate to draw any firm conclusions. Two Cochrane reviews in 2012 concluded that there was insufficient evidence to support its efficacy in managing the pain of childbirth or post-natal
Want to quit smoking ? Try acupuncture or hypnosis. [SEP] EHealth // for self-management of less severe forms of depression, for use under guidance of a GP or psychotherapist. There are a number of online programs relating to smoking cessation. "QuitCoach" is a personalised quit plan based on the users response to questions regarding giving up smoking and tailored individually each time the user logs into the site. "Freedom From Smoking" takes users through lessons that are grouped into modules that provide information and assignments to complete. The modules guide participants through steps such as preparing to quit smoking, stopping smoking and preventing relapse. Other internet programs have been developed specifically as
Want to quit smoking ? Try acupuncture or hypnosis. [SEP] Valerie Austin // at the University Kebangsaan Malaysia and was the only non professor lecturer at the Saba University. Austin was the first hypnotherapist to coin the term "Stop Smoking in One Hour" with the programme she developed from her Harley Street clinic, London practice in 1989. She combined a number of tried and tested hypnotherapy techniques to develop the programme, which she claims a 95% success rate for and trains hypnotherapists in. The success rate was established during her first year of practice during which she saw over 500 smokers. She later found support for her findings in the form of a
Want to quit smoking ? Try acupuncture or hypnosis. [SEP] Valerie Austin // 1968 study by Von Dendenroth which found a 94% success rate of no less than 1,000 smokers staying quit 18 months later using techniques with similarities to Austin's one-hour programme. She published her "Stop Smoking in One Hour" book was first published in Malaysia by Bernta Publishing Sdn in 1997. It was later published in the UK by Blake Publishing in October 2000. Austin developed her own technique, The Austin Technique, to treat conditions including phobias, weight loss, relationship issues and stress, from principles and techniques originating with the founding fathers of hypnosis such as Puységur, James Braid and Bernheim.
Want to quit smoking ? Try acupuncture or hypnosis. [SEP] Smoking cessation // smoked each day, or by smoking only a fraction of a cigarette on each occasion. A 2009 systematic review by researchers at the University of Birmingham found that gradual nicotine replacement therapy could be effective in smoking cessation. There is no significant difference in quit rates between smokers who quit by gradual reduction or abrupt cessation as measured by abstinence from smoking of at least six months from the quit day, suggesting that people who want to quit can choose between these two methods. Most smoking cessation resources such as the CDC and Mayo Clinic encourage smokers to create a
Want to quit smoking ? Try acupuncture or hypnosis. [SEP] Smoking cessation // of all nicotine use. In three studies, it was the quitting method cited by 76%, 85%, or 88% of long-term successful quitters. In a large British study of ex-smokers in the 1980s, before the advent of pharmacotherapy, 53% of the ex-smokers said that it was "not at all difficult" to stop, 27% said it was "fairly difficult", and the remaining 20% found it very difficult. Studies have found that two-thirds of recent quitters reported using the cold turkey method and found it helpful. The American Cancer Society notes that "Studies in medical journals have reported that about 25% of smokers
Want to quit smoking ? Try acupuncture or hypnosis. [SEP] Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease // over 5 years lead to success in nearly 40% of people. Some smokers can achieve long-term smoking cessation through willpower alone. Smoking, however, is highly addictive, and many smokers need further support. The chance of quitting is improved with social support, engagement in a smoking cessation program, and the use of medications such as nicotine replacement therapy, bupropion, or varenicline. Combining smoking-cessation medication with behavioral therapy is more than twice as likely to be effective in helping people with COPD stop smoking, compared with behavioral therapy alone. A number of measures have been taken to reduce the likelihood that workers
Pokémon Go developer Niantic is working on a Harry Potter version of the hugely popular augmented-reality game. [SEP] Harry Potter: Wizards Unite // and encountering iconic characters and legendary beasts from the "Harry Potter" universe. Niantic has revealed the game will draw inspiration from previous AR games "Pokémon Go" and "Ingress". With Niantic's purchase of Escher Reality, the game is expected to implement new technology to allow for persistent worlds within AR. On November 14, 2018, it was confirmed that the game will be released in 2019. "Wizards Unite" gameplay has been described as similar to that of "Pokémon Go", with players able to view the gameplay world through a smartphone. The game will allow players to fight against mythical beasts from both
Pokémon Go developer Niantic is working on a Harry Potter version of the hugely popular augmented-reality game. [SEP] Niantic (company) // 2015, it was announced that Niantic was developing "Pokémon Go" in partnership with Nintendo and The Pokémon Company for iOS and Android devices. The game was initially released in Australia, New Zealand, and the United States in July 2016 (and released to much of the rest of the world throughout the remainder of 2016), where it became an overnight global phenomenon, significantly increasing the use and visibility of augmented reality technology. In addition to topping app store charts in most regions, Apple Inc. announced that "Pokémon Go" had become the most downloaded app in a first week ever, which was
Pokémon Go developer Niantic is working on a Harry Potter version of the hugely popular augmented-reality game. [SEP] Harry Potter: Wizards Unite // Harry Potter: Wizards Unite Harry Potter: Wizards Unite is an upcoming free-to-play, location-based augmented reality game inspired by the Wizarding World. The game is being developed by WB Games San Francisco and Niantic, and published by Niantic. It is planned to launch on Android and iOS mobile devices, and is expected to use augmented reality similar to Niantic's previous release, "Pokémon Go". "Wizards Unite" was announced on November 8, 2017, as an augmented reality mobile game developed by WB Games San Francisco, Portkey Games, and Niantic. Players will be able to visit real-world locations while casting spells, discovering mysterious artifacts,
Pokémon Go developer Niantic is working on a Harry Potter version of the hugely popular augmented-reality game. [SEP] Harry Potter: Wizards Unite // the "Harry Potter" and "Fantastic Beasts" franchises. Harry Potter: Wizards Unite Harry Potter: Wizards Unite is an upcoming free-to-play, location-based augmented reality game inspired by the Wizarding World. The game is being developed by WB Games San Francisco and Niantic, and published by Niantic. It is planned to launch on Android and iOS mobile devices, and is expected to use augmented reality similar to Niantic's previous release, "Pokémon Go". "Wizards Unite" was announced on November 8, 2017, as an augmented reality mobile game developed by WB Games San Francisco, Portkey Games, and Niantic. Players will be able to visit real-world
Pokémon Go developer Niantic is working on a Harry Potter version of the hugely popular augmented-reality game. [SEP] Harry Potter video games // freemium games, such as wait timers, and microtransactions. Following the release of "Pokémon Go", Niantic is scheduled to release "", a similarly augmented reality game to that of "Go", allowing players to see the gameworld through a smartphone in 2019. In addition to game releases, there have been collection titles for the releases of Harry Potter games. In 2005, "World of Harry Potter" was released for PC, containing all of the first four novel games, and the "Quiddich World Cup" game. In 2007, a PlayStation 2 collection known as "Harry Potter Collection", releasing the first three games. In Harry Potter
Pokémon Go developer Niantic is working on a Harry Potter version of the hugely popular augmented-reality game. [SEP] Niantic (company) // will be revealed in 2018. In June 2018, Niantic shared a sneak peek behind the technology they have been developing for years: the Niantic Real World Platform. The core platform consists of a suite of tools including: AR Cloud, anti-cheat security, POI data, IAP, social, analytics, CRM, sponsorship, and more. Niantic mentioned that they intend to open up the platform in the future for use by third party developers. Niantic (company) Niantic, Inc. is an American software development company based in San Francisco, which is best known for developing the augmented reality mobile games "Ingress", "Pokémon Go", and the upcoming
Pokémon Go developer Niantic is working on a Harry Potter version of the hugely popular augmented-reality game. [SEP] Niantic (company) // Go" has established several partnerships around the globe among which include Sprint and Starbucks in the United States, Reliance Jio in India, and Unibail-Rodamco in Europe. In November 2017, it was announced that Niantic was developing "" in partnership with Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment and WB Games San Francisco, under the Portkey Games banner. The game, inspired by J.K. Rowling's Wizarding World and Harry Potter, is said to allow players to "explore real-world neighbourhoods and cities to discover mysterious artifacts, learn to cast spells, and encounter legendary beasts and iconic characters along the way". It was announced that additional details
Pokémon Go developer Niantic is working on a Harry Potter version of the hugely popular augmented-reality game. [SEP] Pokémon Go // Pokémon Go Pokémon Go is an augmented reality (AR) mobile game developed and published by Niantic for iOS and Android devices. A part of the "Pokémon" franchise, it was first released in certain countries in July 2016, and in other regions over the next few months. The game is the result of a collaboration between Niantic and Nintendo by way of The Pokémon Company. It uses the mobile device GPS to locate, capture, battle, and train virtual creatures, called Pokémon, which appear as if they are in the player's real-world location. The game is free to play; it uses a
Pokémon Go developer Niantic is working on a Harry Potter version of the hugely popular augmented-reality game. [SEP] Pokémon Go // multiple search apps and sites, including Pokévision, were disabled as they violated Niantic's terms of service. Pokémon Go Pokémon Go is an augmented reality (AR) mobile game developed and published by Niantic for iOS and Android devices. A part of the "Pokémon" franchise, it was first released in certain countries in July 2016, and in other regions over the next few months. The game is the result of a collaboration between Niantic and Nintendo by way of The Pokémon Company. It uses the mobile device GPS to locate, capture, battle, and train virtual creatures, called Pokémon, which appear as if
Pokémon Go developer Niantic is working on a Harry Potter version of the hugely popular augmented-reality game. [SEP] Nintendo mobile games // Heron and released to mobile devices in early 2016 in Japan, and later worldwide in 2017. "Pokémon Go" was developed by Niantic, and was released for mobile devices in July 2016. "Pokémon Go" is an augmented reality game, having players seek and try to capture virtual Pokémon marked at real-world locations. The game was available as a free-to-play download, using in-app purchases to buy Poké Balls for capturing Pokémon and other in-game boosts. The game was considered a worldwide success; by September 2016, it had been downloaded over 500 million times worldwide, and became the fastest game to make over
Another Potential Benefit of Cutting Calories: Better Memory [SEP] Memory // "American Journal of Geriatric Psychiatry" found that people can improve cognitive function and brain efficiency through simple lifestyle changes such as incorporating memory exercises, healthy eating, physical fitness and stress reduction into their daily lives. This study examined 17 subjects, (average age 53) with normal memory performance. Eight subjects were asked to follow a "brain healthy" diet, relaxation, physical, and mental exercise (brain teasers and verbal memory training techniques). After 14 days, they showed greater word fluency (not memory) compared to their baseline performance. No long-term follow-up was conducted; it is therefore unclear if this intervention has lasting effects on
Another Potential Benefit of Cutting Calories: Better Memory [SEP] Weight training // also been shown to benefit dieters as it inhibits lean body mass loss (as opposed to fat loss) when under a caloric deficit. Weight training also strengthens bones, helping to prevent bone loss and osteoporosis. By increasing muscular strength and improving balance, weight training can also reduce falls by elderly persons. Weight training is also attracting attention for the benefits it can have on the brain, and in older adults, a 2017 meta analysis found that it was effective in improving cognitive performance. The benefits of weight training overall are comparable to most other types of strength training: increased muscle,
Another Potential Benefit of Cutting Calories: Better Memory [SEP] Memory improvement // found in people with schizophrenia. There is some evidence glucose consumption may have a positive impact on memory performance, though not in young adults. Meditation, a form of mental training to focus attention, has been shown to increase the control over brain resource distribution, improving both attention and self-regulation. The changes are potentially long-lasting as meditation may have the ability to strengthen neuronal circuits as selective attentional processes improve. Meditation may also enhance cognitive limited capacity, affecting the way in which stimuli are processed. Meditation practice has also been associated with physical changes in brain structure. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)
Another Potential Benefit of Cutting Calories: Better Memory [SEP] Weight loss // 180 from protein, and 360 from fat. Some studies suggest that increased consumption of protein can help ease hunger pangs associated with reduced caloric intake by increasing the feeling of satiety. Calorie restriction in this way has many long-term benefits. After reaching the desired body weight, the calories consumed per day may be increased gradually, without exceeding 2,000 net (i.e. derived by subtracting calories burned by physical activity from calories consumed). Combined with increased physical activity, low-calorie diets are thought to be most effective long-term, unlike crash diets, which can achieve short-term results, at best. Physical activity could greatly enhance
Another Potential Benefit of Cutting Calories: Better Memory [SEP] Weight management // soup is consumed before a meal, there is a 20% decrease in the number of calories consumed during the meal. A moderate decrease in caloric intake will lead to a slow weight loss, which is often more beneficial for long term weight management vs rapid weight loss. For example, choosing a black coffee instead of a full fat latte will save calories that will add up in the long run. Low fat meats reduce the total amount of calories and cholesterol consumed. For example, traditional beef patties have 19.2% fat and 272 kcal per 100 g of meat. On the
Another Potential Benefit of Cutting Calories: Better Memory [SEP] Dieting // of Preventive Medicine showed that dieters who kept a daily food diary (or diet journal), lost twice as much weight as those who did not keep a food log, suggesting that if you record your eating, you would be more aware of what you eat and, therefore you wouldn't eat as many calories. A 2009 review found that existing limited evidence suggested that encouraging water consumption and substituting energy-free beverages for energy-containing beverages (i.e., reducing caloric intake) may facilitate weight management. A 2009 article found that drinking 500 ml of water prior to meals for a 12-week period resulted in
Another Potential Benefit of Cutting Calories: Better Memory [SEP] Food choice // a normal-weight BMI. Distractions can increase food intake by initiating patterns of consumption, obscuring ability to accurately monitor consumption, and extending meal duration. For example, greater television viewing has been associated with increased meal frequency and caloric intake. A study in Australian children found that those who watched two or more hours of television per day were more likely to consume savory snacks and less likely to consume fruit compared to those who watched less television. Other distractors such as reading, movie watching, and listening to the radio have also been associated with increased consumption. Energy expenditure increases when ambient
Another Potential Benefit of Cutting Calories: Better Memory [SEP] Calorie restriction // and resting heart rate were seen in subjects in the “Minnesota Starvation Experiment” during World War II. Cardiac "diastolic function was better in subjects who practiced strict calorie restriction for 3–15 years than that in healthy age- and sex-matched control subjects ... calorie restriction subjects had less ventricular stiffness and less viscous loss of diastolic recoil, both of which would be consistent with less myocardial fibrosis. "These effects, in combination with other benefits of calorie restriction, such as protection against obesity, diabetes, hypertension, and cancer, suggest that CR may have a major beneficial effect on health span, life span, and
Another Potential Benefit of Cutting Calories: Better Memory [SEP] Weight cutting // Nutritional experts rarely give advice on how to cut weight safely or effectively, and recommend against cutting weight. However, many athletes choose to do it because they wish to gain an advantage in their sport. In addition to improving performance through healthy eating, some athletes will seek to lose weight through dieting and aerobic exercise. By losing fat they hope to achieve a higher "strength-to-mass ratio" or "lean weight." This means more muscle and less fat, and should theoretically give them an advantage against other athletes of the same weight. Weight cutting Weight cutting is the practice of fast weight
Another Potential Benefit of Cutting Calories: Better Memory [SEP] The Hacker's Diet // addresses these problems. Factoring in exercise, and through counting calories, one can calculate one's own total energy expenditure (basal metabolic rate, thermic effect of food, and day-to-day exercise) and cut back calorie intake or increase exercise to lose weight. Walker describes the diet as approaching weight loss "as an engineering problem", claiming that his approach enabled him to reduce his weight from 98kg to 66kg in a year, and keep it stable afterwards. Walker considers the problem of weight loss and maintenance as a control system problem. Simplifying the problem to the barest elements, he models the human body as
WHO to reconsider declaring global emergency as China virus evacuations begin. [SEP] Wake (Sawyer novel) // senior member of the Communist Party, recommends the President order a culling of ten to eleven thousand people in the infected area with an airborne chemical. The President agrees and launches the Changcheng Strategy, cutting off all telephone, satellite, and wireless communication with the rest of the world, so that word of the culling does not spread beyond China's borders. Wong Wai-Jeng, a freedom blogger who is known online as Sinanthropus, attempts to circumvent Internet censorship in China along with many other hackers. Collectively they learn about the bird flu outbreak. Many days after enacting the Changcheng Strategy, Zhang Bo,
WHO to reconsider declaring global emergency as China virus evacuations begin. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic in Asia // the China Inspection and Quarantine Science Research Institute, the measures already in place in China against bird flu are sufficient for this new disease, also certain lessons were learned from the 2003 SARS outbreak including that the state-controlled media doesn't cover up such events. 2 May, the Chinese government has decided to suspend flights from Mexico to Shanghai, the Foreign Ministry said. Meanwhile, the Civil Aviation Administration of China also assigned a charter to transport stranded Chinese visitors back home. Among all carriers, China Eastern Airlines was the first choice as it is based in Shanghai, where the original and
WHO to reconsider declaring global emergency as China virus evacuations begin. [SEP] Influenza A virus subtype H7N9 // that the Chinese government would extend the ban for four months. The health minister also said that they plan to prevent diseased birds from entering the market by setting up a facility where imported poultry can be quarantined to ensure they are disease-free. The WHO does not advise against travel to China at this point in time, as there is no evidence of human-to-human transmission of the virus. On April 9, 2013, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) activated its Emergency Operations Center (EOC) in Atlanta at Level II, the second-highest level of alert. Activation was prompted because
WHO to reconsider declaring global emergency as China virus evacuations begin. [SEP] Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention // the People's Republic of China. George F. Gao is the director general. He has made contributions to the study of inter-species pathogen transmission. He organized the first World Flu Day on November 1 2018, commemorating the centenary of the influenza Epidemic of 1918-19. It is also the 15-year commemoration of the severe acute respiratory syndrome outbreak, which led to China prioritising investment in the public health system. Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention The Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CCDC; ) is an agency of the Ministry of Health of the People's Republic of China based in
WHO to reconsider declaring global emergency as China virus evacuations begin. [SEP] Severe acute respiratory syndrome // to control it, Chinese government officials did not inform the World Health Organization of the outbreak until February 2003. This lack of openness caused delays in efforts to control the epidemic, resulting in criticism of the People's Republic of China from the international community. China has since officially apologized for early slowness in dealing with the SARS epidemic. The outbreak first appeared on 27 November 2002, when Canada's Global Public Health Intelligence Network (GPHIN), an electronic warning system that is part of the World Health Organization's Global Outbreak Alert and Response Network (GOARN), picked up reports of a "flu outbreak"
WHO to reconsider declaring global emergency as China virus evacuations begin. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic // in preparation. On 12 April 2010, Keiji Fukuda, the WHO's top influenza expert, stated that the system leading to the declaration of a pandemic led to confusion about H1N1 circulating around the world, and he expressed concern that there was a failure to communicate in regard to uncertainties about the new virus, which turned out to be not as deadly as feared. WHO Director-General Margaret Chan has appointed 29 flu experts from outside the organization to conduct a review of WHO's handling of the H1N1 flu pandemic. She has told them, "We want a frank, critical, transparent, credible and independent
WHO to reconsider declaring global emergency as China virus evacuations begin. [SEP] Severe acute respiratory syndrome // authorities on 5 and 11 December. Despite the successes of the network in previous outbreak of diseases, it didn't receive intelligence until the media reports from China several months after the outbreak of SARS. Along with the second alert, WHO released the name, definition, as well as an activation of a coordinated global outbreak response network that brought sensitive attention and containment procedures. By the time the WHO took action, over 500 deaths and an additional 2,000 cases had already occurred worldwide. In early April, after Jiang Yanyong pushed to report the danger to China, there appeared to be a
WHO to reconsider declaring global emergency as China virus evacuations begin. [SEP] History of the People's Republic of China (2002–present) // around the world. The crisis marked a period of national mobilization, where schedules around the country shifted to accommodate for the control of the virus. Many educational institutions closed or had highly regulated schedules during the period between April and November 2003, and businesses were open on a very irregular basis. Restaurants, usually the centre of social life in China, were nearing bankruptcy. Quarantine measures were taken across the country, with designated hospitals in major cities treating the illness. The extreme measures left paranoid citizens with common illnesses to treat themselves at home to avoid contracting the virus at a
WHO to reconsider declaring global emergency as China virus evacuations begin. [SEP] Timeline of the SARS outbreak // large state banks are working with minimal staff levels. On April 28, WHO declared the outbreak in Vietnam to be over as no new cases were reported for 20 days. On April 29, leaders of member countries of ASEAN and the PRC premier held an emergency summit in Bangkok, Thailand in order to address the SARS problem. Among the decisions made were the setting-up of a ministerial-level task force and uniform pre-departure health screening in airports. On April 30, the World Health Organization lifted the SARS travel warning for Toronto. The decision was made because "it is satisfied with local
WHO to reconsider declaring global emergency as China virus evacuations begin. [SEP] 2009 flu pandemic by country // within two weeks were to be quarantined. On 2 May, the Chinese government suspended flights from Tijuana to Shanghai. Meanwhile, the Civil Aviation Administration of China assigned a charter to transport stranded Chinese visitors home. The first suspected case was reported on 10 May 2009. On 29 April the Food and Health Bureau of Hong Kong advised Hong Kong residents not to travel to Mexico unless absolutely necessary. The first case was a Mexican who arrived from Shanghai. The Bureau escalated the alert level from "alert" to "serious", which activated health protection measures in all ports of entry of Hong
Maraschino cherries are produced using a toxic dye that has been banned for human consumption. [SEP] Maraschino cherry // the cherries, but newspaper stories from the early part of the century suggest that many manufacturers stopped using alcohol and artificial dyes before Prohibition. After Prohibition was repealed lobbying by the non-alcoholic preserved cherry industry encouraged the Food and Drug Administration to revise federal policy toward canned cherries. It held a hearing in April 1939 to establish a new standard of identity. Since 1940, "maraschino cherries" have been defined as "cherries which have been dyed red, impregnated with sugar, and packed in a sugar syrup flavored with oil of bitter almonds or a similar flavor." FD&C Red Number 1 and
Maraschino cherries are produced using a toxic dye that has been banned for human consumption. [SEP] Maraschino cherry // 4, and FD&C Yellow Number 1 through 4 were removed from the approved list in 1960. The ban on Red Number 4 was lifted in 1965 to allow the coloring of maraschino cherries, which by then were considered mainly decorative and not a foodstuff. In 1975, William F. Randolph of the FDA ruled that if an "artificial bitter almond flavor or any synthetic flavor is used, the product must be labeled artificial or artificially flavored." The following year, the ban on Red #4 was reinstated. As of 2010, modern American Maraschino cherries typically use FD&C Red 40 as a colorant.
Maraschino cherries are produced using a toxic dye that has been banned for human consumption. [SEP] Maraschino cherry // Maraschino cherry A maraschino cherry ( or ) is a preserved, sweetened cherry, typically made from light-colored sweet cherries such as the Royal Ann, Rainier, or Gold varieties. In their modern form, the cherries are first preserved in a brine solution usually containing sulfur dioxide and calcium chloride to bleach the fruit, then soaked in a suspension of food coloring (common red food dye is FD&C Red 40), sugar syrup, and other components. Maraschino cherries are an ingredient in many cocktails, giving them the nickname "cocktail cherries". As a garnish, they often are used to decorate frozen yogurt, baked ham,
Maraschino cherries are produced using a toxic dye that has been banned for human consumption. [SEP] Maraschino cherry // instead. Food Inspection Decision 141 defined Marasca cherries and maraschino themselves. It was signed on Feb. 17, 1912. During Prohibition in the United States as of 1920, the decreasingly popular alcoholic variety was illegal as well. Ernest H. Wiegand, a professor of horticulture at Oregon State University, developed the modern method of manufacturing maraschino cherries using a brine solution rather than alcohol. Accordingly, most modern maraschino cherries have only a historical connection with maraschino liqueur. According to Bob Cain, Cliff Samuels, and Hoya Yang, who worked with Wiegand at OSU, Prohibition had nothing to do with Wiegand's research: his intention
Maraschino cherries are produced using a toxic dye that has been banned for human consumption. [SEP] Maraschino cherry // They are associated with ice cream sundaes and ice cream desserts. Maraschino cherry A maraschino cherry ( or ) is a preserved, sweetened cherry, typically made from light-colored sweet cherries such as the Royal Ann, Rainier, or Gold varieties. In their modern form, the cherries are first preserved in a brine solution usually containing sulfur dioxide and calcium chloride to bleach the fruit, then soaked in a suspension of food coloring (common red food dye is FD&C Red 40), sugar syrup, and other components. Maraschino cherries are an ingredient in many cocktails, giving them the nickname "cocktail cherries". As a
Maraschino cherries are produced using a toxic dye that has been banned for human consumption. [SEP] Maraschino cherry // in which Marasca cherries were crushed and preserved after being pickled. Whole cherries preserved in this liqueur were known as "maraschino cherries". These had been a local means of preserving the fruit in Dalmatia. In the 19th century, these became popular in the rest of Europe, but the supply in Dalmatia was too small for the whole continent, so they came to be seen as a delicacy for royalty and the wealthy. Because of the relative scarcity of the Marasca, other cherries came to be preserved in various ways and sold as "maraschino". The cherries were first introduced in the
Maraschino cherries are produced using a toxic dye that has been banned for human consumption. [SEP] Maraschino cherry // United States in the late 19th century, where they were served in fine bars and restaurants. Because they were scarce and expensive, by the turn of the century American producers were experimenting with other processes for preserving cherries, with flavors such as almond extract and substitute fruit like Queen Anne cherries. Among these, alcohol was already becoming less common. In response, the USDA in 1912 defined "maraschino cherries" as "Marasca cherries preserved in maraschino" under the authority of the Food and Drugs Act of 1906. The artificially-colored and sweetened Royal Anne variety were required to be called "Imitation Maraschino Cherries"
Maraschino cherries are produced using a toxic dye that has been banned for human consumption. [SEP] Maraschino cherry // was to develop a better brining process for cherries that would not soften them. When Wiegand began his research, there were several ways to preserve maraschino cherries without alcohol, long before Prohibition went into effect. Wiegand took a process that people had their own recipes for—"and who knows what they were putting in there" (frequently not alcohol)—and turned it into a science, something replicable. When Wiegand began his research, sodium metabisulfite was being used to preserve maraschino cherries. Some accounts indicate that this preservation method was being used long before Prohibition. Some manufacturers used maraschino or imitation liqueurs to flavor
Maraschino cherries are produced using a toxic dye that has been banned for human consumption. [SEP] Maraschino // and the Duke of Edinburgh visited the factory and accepted "with great pleasure a choice buffet" in the Salghetti-Drioli family home and purchased "more cases of rosolio and several jars of maraschino cherries" (, a. XXII, no.77, 28 September 1877). From the outset, however, Drioli Maraschino was subject to counterfeiting, a scourge which would plague the factory even after it closed in 1980, forcing its owners to take repeated legal action. In his Via Facti, Nicolò Tommaseo noted how widespread Drioli Maraschino was (in Italy... and in all five parts of the world) and he wrote, "..." (it is drunk
Maraschino cherries are produced using a toxic dye that has been banned for human consumption. [SEP] Marasca cherry // (meaning bitter). The variety was first published by Roberto de Visiani in "Flora dalmatica", 1850. Compared to other cherries, the fruit of the Marasca cherry tree is small, with anthocyanins accounting for its dark, near black colour. Its bitter taste and drier pulp make Marasca cherries ideal for creating fine cherry liqueur. By definition, true Maraschino liqueur is supposed to be made only from Marasca cherries. The Marasca cherry was also the original base cherry used to make Maraschino cherries. Marasca cherry The Marasca cherry ("Prunus cerasus" var. "marasca") is a type of sour Morello cherry known only from cultivation.
South Dakota launched a campaign against methamphetamine addiction with the tagline "Meth. We're On It. [SEP] Montana Meth Project // asked to use the Meth Project’s “Meth: Not Even Once” tagline, logo or any other anti-Meth theme, to create art of any style and medium. The current 2010 campaigns are modeled after Montana’s largely successful Paint the State 2006 contest, which inspired art from every county in the state for a total of over 650 works of art. The overwhelming response made Paint the State the largest public art contest in history. Entries in 2006 featured 12 languages, 47 art vehicles, 78 T-shirts, over 380 banners and flags and even a painted sheep. All 19 television spots were conceived by
South Dakota launched a campaign against methamphetamine addiction with the tagline "Meth. We're On It. [SEP] Montana Meth Project // the Montana Meth Project, joined the Partnership for Drug-Free Kids in their efforts to reduce substance abuse among teens. A new study was published in the "Journal of Marketing Research" validating the effectiveness of the Meth Project’s advertising in deterring substance abuse. The study was authored by researchers at the W. P. Carey School of Business at Arizona State University. The researchers tested the effectiveness of several advertisements—including the Meth Project’s—and found that ads that relied on fear alone to convey their message did not lead to immediate changes in attitudes or behavior. However, according to the study, the Meth
South Dakota launched a campaign against methamphetamine addiction with the tagline "Meth. We're On It. [SEP] Montana Meth Project // of the campaign at reducing methamphetamine use is disputed, in 2010, the Meth Project was named the third most effective philanthropy in the world, up from #5 in 2009 on Barron's yearly rankings. In its efforts to effectively reach teens and change attitudes and behaviors toward meth, the MMP regularly conducts focus group research to refine its messaging and better understand how to connect with the state's youth. HBO has also partnered with the MMP on a documentary as part of its Addiction series. Two surveys have been conducted that have investigated methamphetamine use amongst teenagers in Montana before and
South Dakota launched a campaign against methamphetamine addiction with the tagline "Meth. We're On It. [SEP] Montana Meth Project // Project was opposed by some legislators and drug prevention and treatment professionals, who asserted that the Meth Project's effectiveness is unproven and that research shows that these type of media campaigns are ineffective. However, the Bush Administration praised the MMP as a "model for the nation." As of 2009, the campaign has expanded to include the Arizona Meth Project, Idaho Meth Project, Illinois Meth Project, Wyoming Meth Project, Colorado Meth Project, and Hawaii Meth Project. The Georgia Meth Project was founded in 2009 with a planned launch in early 2010. The governor of Montana, Brian Schweitzer, announced that he would
South Dakota launched a campaign against methamphetamine addiction with the tagline "Meth. We're On It. [SEP] Methamphetamine in the United States // is said to be particularly rampant in the American western states, where the substance is in high demand. States like Montana, South Dakota, Idaho, Colorado and Arizona have all launched extensive efforts – both private and public – to fight the meth menace." Since 1989, five U.S. federal laws and dozens of state laws have been imposed in an attempt to curb the production of methamphetamine. Methamphetamine can be produced in home laboratories using pseudoephedrine or ephedrine, which, at the time, were the active ingredients in over-the-counter drugs such as Sudafed and Contac. Preventive legal strategies of the past 17
South Dakota launched a campaign against methamphetamine addiction with the tagline "Meth. We're On It. [SEP] Montana Meth Project // Control Policy (ONDCP) published a report, "Pushing Back Against Meth: A Progress Report on the Fight", highlighting the impact of recently enacted State and Federal laws, such as the Combat Methamphetamine Epidemic Act (CMEA) of 2005, that restricted transactions for the over the counter drugs that can be used to manufacture methamphetamine. Based on the results of Quest Diagnostics' preliminary review of workplace drug tests conducted during the first five months of 2006, the nationwide adult usage of meth declined by 12% when compared to the same period in 2005. Quest provided state-level results: on the state level, results varied
South Dakota launched a campaign against methamphetamine addiction with the tagline "Meth. We're On It. [SEP] Cannabis in South Dakota // that election. In mid-2015, South Dakotans Against Prohibition began circulating petitions to put decriminalization of marijuana on the November 2016 ballot, reclassifying possession of once ounce or less a civil, rather than criminal, infraction, and remove penalties for paraphernalia and consumption. However, SDAP failed to gather the 13,871 signatures necessary to place an initiated measure on the ballot and stated it would withdraw its petition. In November 2017, activists turned in over 15,000 signatures, narrowly meeting valid signature requirements, in order to place medical cannabis on the 2018 ballot. In mid-2015, the Flandreau Santee Sioux Tribe, located in eastern South
South Dakota launched a campaign against methamphetamine addiction with the tagline "Meth. We're On It. [SEP] Brad Wall // convention in February 2005 and resulted in a considerably more moderate policy platform designed to appeal to urban voters. Among the old resolutions that were replaced was one that called for "boot camps" for young offenders. New policy resolutions included calling for treatment for crystal methamphetamine addicts, a patient-first review of the health care system, the development of a comprehensive plan to recruit and retain health care professionals, the development of an integrated addictions strategy for young offenders who are incarcerated, a comprehensive review of the justice system to restore trust and confidence in the system, the establishment of a
South Dakota launched a campaign against methamphetamine addiction with the tagline "Meth. We're On It. [SEP] Montana Meth Project // Montana Meth Project The Montana Meth Project (MMP) is a Montana-based non-profit organization founded by businessman Thomas Siebel which seeks to reduce methamphetamine use, particularly among teenagers. The main venture of the MMP is a saturation-level advertising campaign of television, radio, print, and Internet ads that graphically depict the negative consequences of methamphetamine use. Common elements are the deterioration of each teenage subject's health and living conditions, amphetamine psychosis, moral compromise, and regret. As of 2010, the Meth Project has expanded its media campaign into seven additional states. As of March 13, 2013 the Meth Project, the umbrella organization of
South Dakota launched a campaign against methamphetamine addiction with the tagline "Meth. We're On It. [SEP] Drug policy of Oregon // and ballot measures such as Measures 57 and 61 in the same year. In 2005, Governor Ted Kulongoski signed legislation that made Oregon the first state to require prescriptions for cold medicines containing pseudoephedrine, one of the key ingredients used to make methamphetamine. The state had previously required buyers to show ID and sign a log when buying cold medicine like Sudafed and Claritin D. The intent of the law was to reduce the number of home methamphetamine laboratories. Oregon's monthly home drug lab seizures dropped from 41 to nine after the restrictions were put in place, but the drug
Scientists have determined a date in January is statistically the most depressing day of the year. [SEP] Blue Monday (date) // Blue Monday (date) Blue Monday is a name given to a day in January (typically the third Monday of the month) claimed to be the most depressing day of the year. The concept was first publicised as part of a 2005 press release from holiday company Sky Travel, which claimed to have calculated the date using an equation. It takes into account weather conditions and thus only applies to the Northern Hemisphere. The idea is considered pseudoscience, with its formula derided by scientists as nonsensical. This date was published in a press release under the name of Cliff Arnall, at
Scientists have determined a date in January is statistically the most depressing day of the year. [SEP] Blue Monday (date) // that "you can have an infinitely good weekend by staying at home and cutting your travel time to zero". Dean Burnett, a neuroscientist who has worked in the psychology department of Cardiff University, has described the work as "farcical", with "nonsensical measurements". Arnall also says, in a press release commissioned by Wall's, that he has calculated the happiest day of the year—in 2005, 24 June, in 2006, 23 June, in 2007, 20 June in 2009, 19 June, and in 2010, 18 June. So far, this date has fallen close to Midsummer in the Northern Hemisphere (June 21 to 24). Blue
Scientists have determined a date in January is statistically the most depressing day of the year. [SEP] Blue Monday (date) // the melancholic mind-set of "Blue Monday"". The date is generally reported as falling on the third Monday in January, but also on the second or fourth Monday, or the Monday of the last full week of January. The first such date declared was 24 January in 2005 as part of a Sky Travel press release. The formula uses many factors, including: weather conditions, debt level (the difference between debt accumulated and our ability to pay), time since Christmas, time since failing our new year’s resolutions, low motivational levels and feeling of a need to take action. One equation used by
Scientists have determined a date in January is statistically the most depressing day of the year. [SEP] 2012 phenomenon // Astrobiologist", a NASA public outreach website, received over 5,000 questions from the public on the subject from 2007, some asking whether they should kill themselves, their children or their pets. In May 2012, an Ipsos poll of 16,000 adults in 21 countries found that 8 percent had experienced fear or anxiety over the possibility of the world ending in December 2012, while an average of 10 percent agreed with the statement "the Mayan calendar, which some say 'ends' in 2012, marks the end of the world", with responses as high as 20 percent in China, 13 percent in Russia, Turkey,
Scientists have determined a date in January is statistically the most depressing day of the year. [SEP] Padre Pio // the Italian Bishops’ conference for this designation. The bishops forwarded the request to the Vatican, which gave its approval to the designation. He is also “less officially” known as the patron saint of stress relief and the “January blues,” after the Catholic Enquiry Office in London proclaimed him as such. They designated the most depressing day of the year, identified as January 22, as Don’t Worry Be Happy Day, in honor of Padre Pio’s famous advice: “Pray, hope, and don’t worry.” Padre Pio has become one of the world's most popular saints. There are more than 3,000 "Padre Pio Prayer
Scientists have determined a date in January is statistically the most depressing day of the year. [SEP] Dump months // two concentrations left the post-holiday winter and late summer as the lows that followed the highs. By the 2010s, Burr said, "August is death by ennui. And January is suicide." Similarly, "The A.V. Club" had noted at the same time, "over the past few decades, the American movie schedule has calcified ... January and February are when studios dump their discards, the movies they have low hopes for and want to disavow." Producer Daniel Melnick, whose "Altered States" was moved up a month into the 1980 Christmas season by the studio over his objections, complained about this in an interview
Scientists have determined a date in January is statistically the most depressing day of the year. [SEP] January 1 // January 1 January 1 is the first day of the year in the Gregorian Calendar. There are 364 days remaining until the end of the year (365 in leap years). This day is known as New Year's Day since the day marks the beginning of the year. It is also the first day of the first quarter of the year and the first half of the year. During the Middle Ages under the influence of the Catholic Church, many countries in western Europe moved the start of the year to one of several important Christian festivals – December 25 (the
Scientists have determined a date in January is statistically the most depressing day of the year. [SEP] Monday // businesses owned by Latter-Day Saints close early on Mondays so they and their customers are able to spend more time with their families. A number of popular songs in Western culture feature Monday, often as a day of depression, anxiety, avolition, hysteria, or melancholy (mostly because of its association with the first day of the work week). For example, "Monday, Monday" (1966) from the Mamas & the Papas, "Rainy Days and Mondays" (1971) from the Carpenters, "I Don't Like Mondays" (1979) from the Boomtown Rats, and "Manic Monday" (1986) from the Bangles (written by Prince). There is a band named
Scientists have determined a date in January is statistically the most depressing day of the year. [SEP] January // January January is the first month of the year in the Julian and Gregorian calendars and the first of seven months to have a length of 31 days. The first day of the month is known as New Year's Day. It is, on average, the coldest month of the year within most of the Northern Hemisphere (where it is the second month of winter) and the warmest month of the year within most of the Southern Hemisphere (where it is the second month of summer). In the Southern hemisphere, January is the seasonal equivalent of July in the Northern hemisphere
Scientists have determined a date in January is statistically the most depressing day of the year. [SEP] Doomsday rule // years and January 4 a doomsday during leap years, which can be remembered as "the 3rd during 3 years in 4, and the 4th in the 4th year". For March, one can remember the pseudo-date "March 0", which refers to the day before March 1, i.e. the last day of February. For the months April through December, the even numbered months are covered by the double dates 4/4, 6/6, 8/8, 10/10, and 12/12, all of which fall on the doomsday. The odd numbered months can be remembered with the mnemonic "I work from 9 to 5 at the 7-11", i.e.,
Farmers feed their cattle candy, such as Skittles. [SEP] Skittles (confectionery) // Skittles (confectionery) Skittles is a brand of fruit-flavoured candy, currently produced and marketed by the Wrigley Company, a division of Mars, Inc. Skittles consist of hard sugar shells imprinted with the letter ""S"". The interior consists mainly of sugar, corn syrup, and hydrogenated palm kernel oil along with fruit juice, citric acid, natural and artificial flavors. The confectionery has been sold in a variety of flavor collections, such as Tropical, Wild Berry, Dessert, sweet heat and Sour. Skittles were first made commercially in 1974 by a British company. They were first introduced in North America in 1979 as an import
Farmers feed their cattle candy, such as Skittles. [SEP] Jolly Rancher // and add further flavor. Once the mixture begins to cool it is then extruded into long malleable strings that are cut to size and individually wrapped and packaged. Jolly Rancher Jolly Rancher is an American brand of sweet, somewhat tangy or sour/sweet hard candy, gummies, fruit chews, jelly beans, lollipops, gelatin desserts, gum, and sodas. It is currently owned by The Hershey Company. The product was originally produced by the Jolly Rancher Company, founded by Bill Harmsen of Golden, Colorado. The Jolly Rancher Company made ice cream, chocolate and candy sold at several "Ranch Maid Ice Cream" stores in the
Farmers feed their cattle candy, such as Skittles. [SEP] Skittles (confectionery) // in 2015 and followed up by their Orchards packets, which were then discontinued in 2017. Lime is now currently part of the "Long Lost Lime" packets that came out in summer 2017 and 2018. Skittles (confectionery) Skittles is a brand of fruit-flavoured candy, currently produced and marketed by the Wrigley Company, a division of Mars, Inc. Skittles consist of hard sugar shells imprinted with the letter ""S"". The interior consists mainly of sugar, corn syrup, and hydrogenated palm kernel oil along with fruit juice, citric acid, natural and artificial flavors. The confectionery has been sold in a variety of flavor
Farmers feed their cattle candy, such as Skittles. [SEP] Werthein family // and over 45,000 cattle, distributed in the Provinces of Buenos Aires, La Pampa, Santa Fe and San Luis. They produce wheat, corn, sunflowers, soybeans, cotton, popcorn, candy, sunflower oil, black beans, red beans, and beef as well as a Ranch division that specializes in developing high-quality genetics in the following breeds of cattle: Angus and Hereford (south), Brangus and Braford (North). The fruit area produces apples, pears, peaches, apricots, strawberries and plums in dried form and as a fruit juice concentrate. Julio Werthein (born April 7, 1918) has been involved in the Argentine banking sector since 1940. In 1963 "Julio
Farmers feed their cattle candy, such as Skittles. [SEP] Jolly Rancher // Jolly Rancher Jolly Rancher is an American brand of sweet, somewhat tangy or sour/sweet hard candy, gummies, fruit chews, jelly beans, lollipops, gelatin desserts, gum, and sodas. It is currently owned by The Hershey Company. The product was originally produced by the Jolly Rancher Company, founded by Bill Harmsen of Golden, Colorado. The Jolly Rancher Company made ice cream, chocolate and candy sold at several "Ranch Maid Ice Cream" stores in the Denver area. The name was meant to suggest a hospitable, western company. In 2002, Hershey closed the Wheat Ridge, Colorado plant and moved the manufacturing of the candy
Farmers feed their cattle candy, such as Skittles. [SEP] Skittles (confectionery) // be due to its eccentric posts, such as: "Most cacti are just looking for hugs." Skittles have been involved in two political incidents in the 2010s. In the aftermath of the shooting of Trayvon Martin, protestors used Skittles, which Martin had reportedly been carrying along with AriZona watermelon fruit juice, as a symbol during rallies. Though Mars' brief statement of condolences was criticized by some outlets, such as "Adweek", for being too subdued, Mars' response in 2016 to a Skittles-based image macro (which was posted by Donald Trump's presidential campaign as an analogy for immigration) was praised for its tact
Farmers feed their cattle candy, such as Skittles. [SEP] Candy corn // Candy corn Candy corn is a candy most often found in the United States and Canada, popular primarily around Halloween. The three colors of the candy – a broad yellow end, a tapered orange center, and a pointed white tip – mimic the appearance of kernels of corn, hence the name. Each piece is approximately three times the size of a real kernel from a ripe or dried ear. Candy corn is made primarily from sugar, corn syrup, confectioner's wax, artificial coloring and binders. "Chicken Feed" was the original name of the candy with production starting in the 1880s. Wunderlee
Farmers feed their cattle candy, such as Skittles. [SEP] Cattle feeding // decreases the time to fatten cattle and increases carcass yield. Some corn-fed cattle are fattened in concentrated animal feeding operations known as feed lots. In the United States, most grass-fed cattle are raised for beef production. Dairy cattle may be supplemented with grain to increase the efficiency of production and reduce the area needed to support the energy requirements of the herd. A growing number of health and environmental proponents in the United States such as the Union of Concerned Scientists advocate raising cattle on pasture and other forage. Complete adoption of farming practices like grass-fed beef production systems would
Farmers feed their cattle candy, such as Skittles. [SEP] Candy corn // Candy Company was the first to produce the candy. Following the 19th century, the Goelitz Confectionary Company (now called Jelly Belly) manufactured the product. Along with other agriculture-inspired treats at the time, the late 19th century, America's confectioners sought to market candy corn to a largely rural society. Candy corn is a staple of the Fall season and Halloween holiday in the United States of America. The taste of candy corn can be described as somewhat polarizing, and has been a subject of wide debate. The National Confectioners Association estimates that 35 million pounds (over 9000 metric tons) of candy
Farmers feed their cattle candy, such as Skittles. [SEP] Minnie Lou Bradley // "pulling calves" from the womb. At 2 am during calving season, Bradley boards her pickup truck and drives past the pens, and with her searchlight looks for pregnant cows in distress, and as needed, summons help. She cooks all three meals for the ranch, sometimes serving a half-dozen persons. For each meal, she uses beef from her own feedyard and packing facility. In 1986, the Bradleys developed B3R Country Meats in Childress. They were instrumental in defining national standards for natural beef products. In 2002, the company was sold to George Gillette. Bradley, supplied the steaks for the January 20,
Meryl Streep, who was critical of President-elect Donald Trump in a Golden Globes speech, once gave accused pedophile Roman Polanski a standing ovation at the Oscars. [SEP] Sexual abuse in Hollywood // After actress Meryl Streep denied knowing the behavior of the producer, Rose McGowan, one of the victims, rebutted her arguing that Streep had knowledge and called her a "hypocrite." On January 7, 2018, during the 75th Golden Globe Awards ceremony, the vast majority of attendees decided to wear black in solidarity with the victims. The participation of some attendees was criticized, including Streep herself, in addition to Kirk Douglas, due to the accusations regarding Natalie Wood, and of Oprah Winfrey, who after receiving the honorary Cecil B. DeMille Award, dedicated her speech to the victims of such aggressions. That same
Meryl Streep, who was critical of President-elect Donald Trump in a Golden Globes speech, once gave accused pedophile Roman Polanski a standing ovation at the Oscars. [SEP] 74th Golden Globe Awards // stating names, President-elect Donald Trump's alleged imitation of disabled "New York Times" journalist Serge F. Kovaleski, stating: "Disrespect invites disrespect. Violence incites violence. When powerful people use their position to bully we all lose." On the subject of diversity in Hollywood, Streep said, "Hollywood is crawling with outsiders and foreigners, and if you kick us all out, you'll have nothing to watch except for football and mixed martial arts, which are not arts." Press coverage of the event has largely focused on Meryl Streep's remarks and the responses to them, and this has also dominated popular responses, generating what the
Meryl Streep, who was critical of President-elect Donald Trump in a Golden Globes speech, once gave accused pedophile Roman Polanski a standing ovation at the Oscars. [SEP] Meryl Streep // in a photograph taken during the PEN America Annual Literary Gala on April 25, at which Sentsov was honoured with a 2017 PEN/Barbey Freedom to Write award. Politically, Streep has described herself as part of the American Left. She gave a speech at the 2016 Democratic National Convention in support of presidential nominee Hillary Clinton. On January 8, 2017, Streep accepted the Cecil B. DeMille Award for Lifetime Achievement at the Golden Globes, during which she delivered a highly political speech that criticized then-President-elect Donald Trump (without naming him). She said that Trump had a very strong platform and used
Meryl Streep, who was critical of President-elect Donald Trump in a Golden Globes speech, once gave accused pedophile Roman Polanski a standing ovation at the Oscars. [SEP] Meryl Streep // it inappropriately to mock a disabled reporter, Serge F. Kovaleski, whom, in her words, Trump "outranked in privilege, power, and the capacity to fight back". She added, "When the powerful use their position to bully, we all lose". She also implicitly criticized Trump's hardline stance on immigration, saying "Hollywood is crawling with outsiders and foreigners, and if you kick us all out, you'll have nothing to watch except for football and mixed martial arts, which are not arts." Trump responded on Twitter by calling Streep "one of the most over-rated actresses in Hollywood", and "a Hillary flunky who lost big".
Meryl Streep, who was critical of President-elect Donald Trump in a Golden Globes speech, once gave accused pedophile Roman Polanski a standing ovation at the Oscars. [SEP] Serge F. Kovaleski // stated that Kovaleski had "pulled back from his [original] statement." During her January 8, 2017, acceptance speech at the Golden Globe Award ceremony, actress Meryl Streep referred to the incident as "one performance this year that stunned me". Streep said: It sank its hooks in my heart. Not because it was good; there was nothing good about it. But it was effective and it did its job. It made its intended audience laugh, and show their teeth. It was that moment when the person asking to sit in the most respected seat in our country imitated a disabled reporter. Someone
Meryl Streep, who was critical of President-elect Donald Trump in a Golden Globes speech, once gave accused pedophile Roman Polanski a standing ovation at the Oscars. [SEP] 74th Golden Globe Awards // BBC has characterized as a "firestorm on Twitter". Donald Trump responded to Streep's comments on Twitter, describing Streep as "one of the most over-rated actresses in Hollywood" and a "Hillary flunky", and stating "For the 100th time, I never "mocked" a disabled reporter (would never do that) but simply showed him "groveling" when he totally changed a 16 year old story that he had written in order to make me look bad. Just more very dishonest media!" Lorenzo Soria, president of the Hollywood Foreign Press Association (HFPA) which runs the annual Golden Globe Awards ceremony, wrote on Twitter on 10
Meryl Streep, who was critical of President-elect Donald Trump in a Golden Globes speech, once gave accused pedophile Roman Polanski a standing ovation at the Oscars. [SEP] 74th Golden Globe Awards // January: "As an organisation of journalists, the HFPA stands by your defence of free expression and we reject any calls for censorship". Dana White, president of the Ultimate Fighting Championship, responded to Streep's reference to mixed martial arts (MMA), defending the sport as an art, and saying that "the last thing I expect is for an uppity 80-year-old lady to be in our demographic and love mixed martial arts". Scott Coker, president of Bellator MMA, also defended MMA as art, and highlighted the sport's diversity; he invited Streep to attend an event. Tom Hiddleston received criticism in social media for
Meryl Streep, who was critical of President-elect Donald Trump in a Golden Globes speech, once gave accused pedophile Roman Polanski a standing ovation at the Oscars. [SEP] Sabo (street artist) // Hillary Clinton and the Democratic Party, at local bus stops. In December 2017, Sabo claimed credit for putting up posters (in a style heavily inspired by the works of Barbara Kruger) of actress Meryl Streep with producer Harvey Weinstein with the words "She knew" emblazoned across Streep's face, a reference to rumors that Streep had been aware that Weinstein was a serial sexual predator before the information became public. He said that he considered it retribution for Streep's role in the film "The Post" because he believed the film was a direct attack on Donald Trump. In January 2018, Sabo
Meryl Streep, who was critical of President-elect Donald Trump in a Golden Globes speech, once gave accused pedophile Roman Polanski a standing ovation at the Oscars. [SEP] Meryl Streep on screen and stage // Award-nominated role as a ruthless fashion magazine editor in the comedy-drama "The Devil Wears Prada". This late-period success led to starring roles in several high-profile films, including the US$609 million-grossing romantic comedy "Mamma Mia!" (2008), her highest-grossing release, and the comedy-drama "Julie & Julia" (2009), in which she played Julia Child. These roles re-established Streep's stardom in Hollywood. Her portrayal of Margaret Thatcher in the biopic "The Iron Lady" (2011) earned her another Academy Award for Best Actress. The starring role of Katharine Graham in the 2017 drama "The Post" garnered Streep her 21st Oscar nomination, more than any actor
Meryl Streep, who was critical of President-elect Donald Trump in a Golden Globes speech, once gave accused pedophile Roman Polanski a standing ovation at the Oscars. [SEP] Oscar speech // boring run-of-the-mill acceptance speech, a touching acceptance speech, or a crazy over-the-top acceptance speech". "The New Yorker" said Common pitfalls include self-aggrandizement (King of the World James Cameron), excessive weepiness (Gwyneth Paltrow), and sheer who-invited-this-person weirdness (Melissa Leo). Some are passive-aggressive (Shirley MacLaine, who thanked Debra Winger for her "turbulent brilliance"). Some are strident (Vanessa Redgrave, who chided "Zionist hoodlums"). Some are unsettling (Angelina Jolie, who declared herself "so in love with my brother right now"). At their best, they offer a jolt of liberating mania (Roberto Benigni), or a banquet of finely calibrated self-deprecation, gratitude, and poise (Meryl Streep).
Man who gouged out ex’s eyes committed to mental facility. [SEP] Martin Bryant // into Hobart's Wilfred Lopes Centre, a secure mental health unit run by the Tasmanian Department of Health and Human Services. The 35-bed unit for inmates with serious mental illness is staffed with doctors, nurses and other support workers. Inmates are not locked down, and can come and go from their cells. Exterior security at the facility is provided by a three-wall perimeter patrolled by private contract guards. Bryant attempted suicide on 25 March 2007 by slashing his wrist with a razor blade. On 27 March, he cut his throat with another razor blade and was hospitalised briefly. As of 2015,
Man who gouged out ex’s eyes committed to mental facility. [SEP] The Exorcist III // Killer's true mutilations were kept a secret by the Richmond police's homicide department. Kinderman visits the head of the psychiatric ward, Dr. Temple, who relates the history of a man in Cell 11, that he was found wandering aimlessly seventeen years ago with amnesia. The man was locked up, catatonic until recently when he became violent and claimed to be the Gemini Killer. Kinderman sees that the patient resembles his dead friend Father Damien Karras. The patient expresses ignorance of Father Karras, but boasts of killing Father Dyer. The next morning, a nurse and Dr. Temple are found dead. Kinderman
Man who gouged out ex’s eyes committed to mental facility. [SEP] Charles Ray Hatcher // to San Quentin State Prison to stand trial, three years after the crime. He was ordered to undergo two final examinations: one declared him competent to stand trial and the other determined him to be sane at the time of the crime. In December 1972, Hatcher was tried for, and convicted of the abduction and molestation of Martinez. In January 1972, he was committed to the California State Hospital as a "mentally disordered sexual offender". On March 28, 1973, security guards found Hatcher hiding in a cooler near the hospital's main courtyard with two sheets stuffed into his pants, after
Man who gouged out ex’s eyes committed to mental facility. [SEP] Isaac Woodard // his court testimony, Woodard stated that he was punched in the eyes by police several times on the way to the jail, and later repeatedly jabbed in his eyes with a billy club. Newspaper accounts indicate that Woodard's eyes had been "gouged out"; historical documents indicate that each globe was ruptured irreparably in the socket. The following morning, the police sent Woodard before the local judge, who found him guilty and fined him fifty dollars. The soldier requested medical assistance, but it took two more days for a doctor to be sent to him. Not knowing where he was and
Man who gouged out ex’s eyes committed to mental facility. [SEP] Steven Timothy Judy // into a woman's home, raped her, and then tried to kill her with a pocketknife. The pocketknife broke before he could kill the woman. However, he fractured her skull and cut off one of her fingers . At the trial, Judy initially claimed he had nothing to do with it. Once the investigators brought up his past incidences, he pled insanity. He was found guilty and sentenced to six months in a juvenile detention center and was then sent to a mental hospital. At the hospital he received treatment for his diagnosis as a "sexual psychopath" Once released, Judy was
Man who gouged out ex’s eyes committed to mental facility. [SEP] AH v West London Mental Health Trust // a small knife. There is some disagreement between media reports as to whether he threatened staff and gave himself up, or tried to attack a member of staff but was prevented. No one was physically hurt. Later that year he pleaded guilty to attempted wounding. Rather than being sentenced to prison, he was sent to Broadmoor high secure psychiatric hospital for treatment under the Mental Health Act. In 1992 Haines was transferred to the medium secure Three Bridges Unit in Ealing, London, also now run by West London Mental Health NHS Trust. While there he made successful visits out of
Man who gouged out ex’s eyes committed to mental facility. [SEP] People v. Serravo // up. He told her an intruder stabbed her and he called for emergency assistance. When police arrived, he told them he left the garage door open, heard his front door slam, went upstairs to check on his wife, and found her bleeding. His wife later found letters written by Serravo admitting to the stabbing, confronted him, and he explained that God told him to sever their marriage by stabbing her, and called police who arrested and charged him. Serravo's attorney raised the insanity defense. The prosecution forensic psychiatrist found Serravo sane because while he believed his act was justified and
Man who gouged out ex’s eyes committed to mental facility. [SEP] Gömda // and his criminal record was not reflected in the books. For example, the hospitalization of "the man with the black eyes" after aggravated assault by "Maria Eriksson's" Chilean husband, who was convicted and imprisoned for one year due to the assault, was not mentioned in the book. In response to the criticism, Marklund has stated that she considers the bulk of the story to be factually correct and neither exaggerated nor deceptive. She has noted that the story is supported by hundreds of official documents from the courts and the social services. She has also written that she did not
Man who gouged out ex’s eyes committed to mental facility. [SEP] Frederick Wedge // argument with his son, Wedge indicated that he lost control and contemplated throwing himself out of his hotel window to spare his bride anymore humiliation. Within a week of his wedding, Wedge had been committed to the psychiatric ward in the Highland Hospital in Oakland, California for observation after admitting to an alienist that he had been obsessed with either strangling his new wife or defenestrating her during their honeymoon. Wedge also confessed that "for several months I have been fighting a desire to kill myself. For weeks I would want to slash my throat every time I picked up
Man who gouged out ex’s eyes committed to mental facility. [SEP] Carroll Cole // his perspective towards women. After two years, the marriage ended when Cole burned down a motel after convincing himself that Whitworth was having sex with men there. As a result, he was arrested for arson. Upon his release from prison, Cole attempted to strangle an 11-year-old girl in Missouri. He was arrested and sentenced to five years in prison. After the sentence was up, Cole ended up in Nevada, where he attempted to strangle two more women. Once again, he checked himself into a mental hospital. The doctors there noted his murderous fantasies but still didn't see a reason to
3 economists who study poverty win Nobel Prize. [SEP] John A. List // given every 2 years by the Finnish Foundation, recognized List's achievements to society from pioneering the use of field experiments. Ten of the previous Nineteen recipients have gone on to win the Nobel Prize in economics. In August 2017, List was awarded the Klein Prize International Economic Review for his work on field experiments. Six of the twenty recipient have won the Nobel Prize. In November 2014 he was awarded an honorary doctorate by Tilburg University. Tilburg University calls him "a true pioneer in experimental field research," whose innovative work has "finally made it possible to test behavioral economic theory
3 economists who study poverty win Nobel Prize. [SEP] Charles F. Manski // predicted to win the Nobel Prize in 2015 by Reuters along with two other economists. Chicago economist John A. List for his work on field experiments and English economist Richard Blundell, for his work on labor markets were also listed as favorites to win a future Nobel Prize. He is the son of Holocaust survivor and Sugihara visa recipient Samuil Manski and Estelle Zonn Manski. He grew up in Dorchester and West Roxbury, both in Massachusetts, attended Boston Latin School, and spent many afternoons in the family diner. One day, while leading a Torah reading, he had an epiphany that
3 economists who study poverty win Nobel Prize. [SEP] C. Lowell Harriss // He also held posts at the Wharton School, the New School for Social Research and Pace University. He accepted the posthumous 1996 Nobel Prize in Economics for his colleague at Columbia, William Vickrey, because the announcement of the prize occurred just three days before Vickrey died. Vickrey had been awarded the prize along with James Mirrlees for research on the economic theory of incentives. "Gift Taxation in the U.S." (1940) "History and Policies of the Home Owners Loan Corporation" (1951) "The American Economy: Principles, Practices, Policies" (1953) "The Good Earth of America" (1974) "Money and Banking" (1961) "Economics" (1966) "Constitutional
3 economists who study poverty win Nobel Prize. [SEP] Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences // Prize Committee changed to include two non-economists. This has not been confirmed by the Economics Prize Committee. The members of the 2007 Economics Prize Committee are still dominated by economists, as the secretary and four of the five members are professors of economics. In 1978, Herbert A. Simon, whose PhD was in political science, became the first non-economist to win the prize, while Daniel Kahneman, a professor of psychology and international relations at Princeton University is the first non-economist by profession to win the prize. Some critics argue that the prestige of the Prize in Economics derives in part from
3 economists who study poverty win Nobel Prize. [SEP] Poor Economics // out a broad set of conclusions. Instead they draw some simple yet powerful lessons, and believe that small changes can have big effects. The authors conclude on the optimistic note that we are all part of the solution. Abhijit V. Banerjee is the Ford Foundation International Professor of Economics at MIT and a founder of the Abdul Latif Jameel Poverty Action Lab (J-PAL). He is a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and the Econometric Society and has been a Guggenheim Fellow. He has also received the inaugural Infosys Prize 2009 in Social Sciences and Economics. He
3 economists who study poverty win Nobel Prize. [SEP] Maurice Dobb // of the Soviet Union in 1991, Dobb started to question his earlier devotion to Russia’s economics. His communist ideals, however, did not die with him. Dobb had two notable students, Amartya Sen and Eric Hobsbawm. Sen won the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences in 1998 and Bharat Ratna in 1999 for his work in welfare economics, as well as the inaugural Charleston-EFG John Maynard Keynes Prize in recognition of his work on welfare economics. Sen is also a fellow at Trinity College, much like Dobb was. Hobsbawm attended the University of Cambridge, like Dobb, and was a Marxist historiographer
3 economists who study poverty win Nobel Prize. [SEP] James Mirrlees // was a member of the Cambridge Apostles along with fellow Nobel Laureate Amartya Sen during the period. Between 1968 and 1976, Mirrlees was a visiting professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology three times. He was also a visiting professor at the University of California, Berkeley (1986) and Yale University (1989). He taught at both Oxford University (as Edgeworth Professor of Economics 1968–1995) and University of Cambridge (1963–1968 and 1995–2018). During his time at Oxford, he published papers on economic models for which he would eventually be awarded his Nobel Prize. The papers centred on asymmetric information, which determines the
3 economists who study poverty win Nobel Prize. [SEP] History of economic thought // not keep up. In addition to his important work on the causes of famines, Sen's work in the field of development economics has had considerable influence in the formulation of the "Human Development Report", published by the United Nations Development Programme. This annual publication that ranks countries on a variety of economic and social indicators owes much to the contributions by Sen among other social choice theorists in the area of economic measurement of poverty and inequality. Sen was awarded the Nobel Prize in Economics in 1998. In 1958 American economists Alfred H. Conrad (1924–1970) and John R. Meyer (1927–2009)
3 economists who study poverty win Nobel Prize. [SEP] Economist // in 1968, is a prize awarded to economists each year for outstanding intellectual contributions in the field of economics. The prize winners are announced in October every year. They receive their awards (a prize amount, a gold medal and a diploma) on December 10, the anniversary of Alfred Nobel's death. Economists work in many fields including academia, government and in the private sector, where they may also "...study data and statistics in order to spot trends in economic activity, economic confidence levels, and consumer attitudes. They assess this information using advanced methods in statistical analysis, mathematics, computer programming [and] they
3 economists who study poverty win Nobel Prize. [SEP] École normale supérieure (Paris) // its history at the school is less long, as it was not among the subjects first taught at the school. However, Gérard Debreu won the 1983 Bank of Sweden Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel, and there is a growing output of economists from ENS, as evidenced by the young generation of French economists represented by Emmanuel Saez, winner of the 2009 John Bates Clark Medal, Esther Duflo, who won the same medal in 2010, and Thomas Piketty, author of the 2013 bestseller "Capital in the Twenty-First Century". Since its creation in 2000, ten of the twenty
Rick Scott Says his tax and fee cuts will save households "$540 over two years. [SEP] Mike Ross (politician) // time as allowed by the state's finances. The total price tag of the restructuring would cost an estimated $574.5 million, according to the Arkansas Department of Finance and Administration. Ross said his tax cut plan, when fully implemented, would cut income taxes by as much as $465 for incomes at $30,000; $665 at $40,000; $880 at $50,000; and, $1,148 at $75,000 and up. He proposed mimicking Gov. Mike Beebe's phase-out of the sales tax on groceries as his blueprint for restructuring the tax code. Ross said, "I want to modernize our income tax code in a way that means lower,
Rick Scott Says his tax and fee cuts will save households "$540 over two years. [SEP] Deficit reduction in the United States // years. President Obama proposed during July 2012 allowing the Bush tax cuts to expire for individual taxpayers earning over $200,000 and couples earning over $250,000, which represents the top 2% of income earners. Reverting to Clinton-era tax rates for these taxpayers would mean increases in the top rates to 36% and 39.6% from 33% and 35%. This would raise approximately $850 billion in revenue over a decade. It would also mean raising the tax rate on investment income, which is highly concentrated among the wealthy, to 20% from 15%. Allowing the Bush tax cuts to expire at all income levels
Rick Scott Says his tax and fee cuts will save households "$540 over two years. [SEP] 2015 Canadian federal budget // proposes to extend the measure until 2024, reducing government tax revenues by up to $360 million a year. The budget proposes to close a loophole used by financial institutions on derivatives contracts, that the government estimates will generate as much as $365 million in the current fiscal year and $1.24 billion over the next four years. Banks would no longer be able to claim an income-tax deduction on dividends paid by Canadian companies under certain derivatives contracts. These "synthetic equity arrangements" have the "potential to significantly erode the Canadian tax base" according to the budget document. The government will save
Rick Scott Says his tax and fee cuts will save households "$540 over two years. [SEP] Kevin Brady // of households in 2018 would pay "more" in taxes and by 2022, one quarter of households would pay "more". Brady's claim that 70% of the tax cuts in the bill would go to households making below $200,000 was found to be "misleading" by FactCheck.Org and "cherry-picked" by PolitiFact. FactCheck.org noted that "57.7 percent of the tax relief goes to those families making less than $200,000 in 2019 — not the 70 percent that Brady cited for 2019. By 2027, 50 percent of tax relief as a result of business and individual income tax changes would go to those making more
Rick Scott Says his tax and fee cuts will save households "$540 over two years. [SEP] Robert Byrd // approval by Congress of 35 billion to 40 billion of the 48 billion in proposed budget cuts while having more difficulty in passing his tax-cut package, asserting Democratic opposition and some Republicans having misgivings about the approach as the reason Congress would block the plan and furthering that he would be surprised if a one-year-cut in rates lasted more than year. Byrd opined that it was time for "some tax reform" that would see loopholes closed for the rich dropped to bring in revenues and expressed belief in the likelihood of the administration dismantling existing energy programs: "Energy programs are
Rick Scott Says his tax and fee cuts will save households "$540 over two years. [SEP] Sam Brownback // cut individuals' income tax rates. The first phase of his cuts reduced the top Kansas income-tax rate from 6.45 percent down to 4.9 percent, and immediately eliminated income tax on business profits from partnerships and limited liability corporations passed through to individuals. The income tax cuts would provide 231 million in tax relief in its first year, growing to 934 million after six years. A forecast from the Legislature's research staff indicated that a budget shortfall will emerge by 2014 and will grow to nearly 2.5 billion by July 2018. The cuts were based on model legislation published by the
Rick Scott Says his tax and fee cuts will save households "$540 over two years. [SEP] United States fiscal cliff // service costs. On December 3, 2012, Speaker John Boehner proposed a Republican plan that included $2.2 trillion in deficit cuts over a decade. Revenue would be generated mainly by reducing tax expenditures (exemptions and deductions) rather than increasing income tax rates. Further, it included raising the Medicare eligibility age from 65 to 67 and slowing increases in Social Security costs by reducing cost-of-living adjustments. On December 18, 2012, Boehner announced that a new "Plan B" would be taken up by the House. This plan would raise tax rates for those who earn over a million dollars. However, by December 20,
Rick Scott Says his tax and fee cuts will save households "$540 over two years. [SEP] Canadian Taxpayers Federation // costs, and for being a "regressive tax". In 2008, Premier Ed Stelmach abolished the tax, which had previously brought in $900 million to the province's general revenue fund. The tax cut saved individuals $528 and families $1,056 on average. Starting in 1997, CTF worked to put an end to what was called "bracket creep," where tax brackets were not released indexed to inflation. This resulted in numerous Canadians being bumped up to a higher tax bracket, despite not being any wealthier in real terms. The organization launched a national campaign to fight this practice both federally and provincially. The campaign
Rick Scott Says his tax and fee cuts will save households "$540 over two years. [SEP] Economic policy of Donald Trump // had been in place in 2005 (the one recent year in which his tax returns were leaked), he would have saved $31 million in taxes from the alternative minimum tax cut alone. If the most recent estimate of the value of Trump's assets is correct, the repeal of the estate tax could save his family about $1.1 billion. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin argued that the corporate income tax cut will benefit workers the most; however, the nonpartisan Joint Committee on Taxation and Congressional Budget Office estimate that owners of capital benefit vastly more than workers. Economist Paul Krugman summarized what
Rick Scott Says his tax and fee cuts will save households "$540 over two years. [SEP] Marco Rubio // Senate Republicans, who said that the increase in sales tax would disproportionately affect the poor. So, Rubio agreed to smaller changes, and Crist's proposal to double the state's property tax exemption from $25,000 to $50,000 (for a tax reduction estimated by Crist to be $33 billion) ultimately passed. Legislators called it the largest tax cut in Florida's history up until then. At the time, Republican anti-tax activist Grover Norquist described Rubio as "the most pro-taxpayer legislative leader in the country." As speaker, Rubio "aggressively tried to push Florida to the political right," according to NBC News, and frequently clashed with
Clark County ranks first in nation in syphilis rates. [SEP] Tuskegee syphilis experiment // untreated syphilis in a group of black men for 6 to 9 months, and then follow up with a treatment phase. When he understood the intention of other study members to use deceptive practices, Clark disagreed with the plan to conduct an extended study. He retired the year after the study began. Although Clark is usually assigned blame for conceiving the Tuskegee Study, Thomas Parran Jr. is equally, if not more, deserving of originating the notion of a non-treatment experiment in Macon County, Alabama. As the Health Commissioner of New York State (and former head of the PHS Venereal Disease
Clark County ranks first in nation in syphilis rates. [SEP] Jefferson County, Alabama // For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 84.50 males. In 2007 Jefferson County had the highest rate of syphilis cases per 100,000 in the US, according to data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The median income for a household in the county was $36,868, and the median income for a family was $45,951. Males had a median income of $35,954 versus $26,631 for females. The per capita income for the county was $20,892. About 11.60% of families and 14.80% of the population were below the poverty line, including 20.20% of those under age 18
Clark County ranks first in nation in syphilis rates. [SEP] Clark County, Idaho // Clark County, Idaho Clark County is a rural county in the U.S. state of Idaho; its county seat and largest city is Dubois. As of the 2010 Census, the county had a population of 982, making it the least populous county in the state (trading places with Camas County). Establishment of stage coach stops along the route between Salt Lake City and the Montana mine were established at Beaver Canyon ( named after Beaver Creek (Camas Creek) ) and Dry Creek (now Dubois) in 1864. Originally part of Alturas County, both locations were transferred to Oneida County in 1877. They
Clark County ranks first in nation in syphilis rates. [SEP] Clark County, Idaho // Macoy Ward. The county also has other County officials like Sheriff, County Clerk, Attorney, Coroner, Treasurer, and Assesor. Clark County, Idaho Clark County is a rural county in the U.S. state of Idaho; its county seat and largest city is Dubois. As of the 2010 Census, the county had a population of 982, making it the least populous county in the state (trading places with Camas County). Establishment of stage coach stops along the route between Salt Lake City and the Montana mine were established at Beaver Canyon ( named after Beaver Creek (Camas Creek) ) and Dry Creek (now
Clark County ranks first in nation in syphilis rates. [SEP] HIV/AIDS in Taiwan // population has high rates of syphilis, 8.1–13.8%, depending on the city. Taiwanese male homosexual and bisexual HIV-1/AIDS patients have also been diagnosed with significantly higher rates of syphilis than have heterosexual patients. Furthermore, the percentage of homosexual or bisexual HIV-1/AIDS patients under the age of 20 years is significantly higher than that of heterosexual patients, 3.0% versus 1.7%. One of the primary factors that leads to HIV risk is the lack of accurate information on risky behaviors that lead to HIV contraction increases the risk of contracting HIV and other sexually transmitted infections. Taiwan's clinical spectrum of AIDS patients is
Clark County ranks first in nation in syphilis rates. [SEP] Clark County, Indiana // have jurisdiction to hear Ordinance violations and misdemeanor prosecutions, as well as civil actions where the amount in controversy does not exceed five hundred dollars ($500). Judgments in the City and Town Courts may be appealed de novo to the Clark Circuit Court. In addition, Clark Superior Court #3 maintains a Small Claims Docket. Local Rules of Practice may also limit the ability of a Court to hear certain cases. Judgments in other Courts may be appealed to the Indiana Court of appeals or the Indiana Supreme Court. The Circuit and Superior Court Judges are assisted by 3 Magistrates, who
Clark County ranks first in nation in syphilis rates. [SEP] Clark County Commission // of 7 members (Dario Herrera, Erin Kenny, Mary Kincaid-Chauncey and Lance Malone) for bribery and corruption and were sentenced to federal prison terms for crimes committed while in office. All 4 of them were members of the Democratic Party. Clark County Commission The Clark County Board of County Commissioners is the governmental organization that governs and runs Clark County, Nevada, providing services to the unincorporated areas. Its offices are located in Downtown Las Vegas. The commission is considered by many to be the most powerful governmental body in the state of Nevada. Each Commissioner is elected to a four-year term
Clark County ranks first in nation in syphilis rates. [SEP] Clark County Commission // Clark County Commission The Clark County Board of County Commissioners is the governmental organization that governs and runs Clark County, Nevada, providing services to the unincorporated areas. Its offices are located in Downtown Las Vegas. The commission is considered by many to be the most powerful governmental body in the state of Nevada. Each Commissioner is elected to a four-year term and represents one of seven districts, designated A-G. Members as of 2017 The Clark County Commissioners as a group sit on the following boards: The corruption scandal within the Clark County Commission led to the conviction of 4 out
Clark County ranks first in nation in syphilis rates. [SEP] Michael Petrelis // rising rates of syphilis among gay men in San Francisco. On November 28, 2001, Petrelis and Pasquarelli appeared before the San Francisco County Superior Court for a hearing on civil harassment suits by two public health officials, and five "San Francisco Chronicle" editors and reporters who claimed they received threatening phone calls. In the courthouse hallway after the hearing, San Francisco Police Department officers arrested Petrelis and Pasquarelli. The activists were charged with criminal conspiracy, stalking, and making terrorist threats against newspaper reporters and public health officials. Petrelis' bail was set at $500,000; Pasquarelli's bail was set at $600,000. On
Clark County ranks first in nation in syphilis rates. [SEP] Clark County, Missouri // Brian Munzlinger (R-Williamstown). All of Clark County is included in Missouri’s 6th Congressional District and is currently represented by Sam Graves (R-Tarkio) in the U.S. House of Representatives. Clark County, Missouri Clark County is a county located in the U.S. state of Missouri. As of the 2010 census, the county's population was 7,139. Its county seat is Kahoka. The county was organized December 16, 1836 and named for William Clark, leader of the Lewis and Clark Expedition and later Governor of Missouri Territory. Clark County is part of the Fort Madison–Keokuk, IA-IL-MO Micropolitan Statistical Area. Missouri folklorist Margot Ford McMillen
Estrogen Lowers Breast Cancer and Heart Attack Risk in Some [SEP] Risk factors for breast cancer // biological differences in cancer presentation between these groups. Persistently increased blood levels of estrogen are associated with an increased risk of breast cancer, as are increased levels of the androgens androstenedione and testosterone (which can be directly converted by aromatase to the estrogens estrone and estradiol, respectively). Increased blood levels of progesterone are associated with a decreased risk of breast cancer in premenopausal women. A number of circumstances which increase exposure to endogenous estrogens including not having children, delaying first childbirth, not breastfeeding, early menarche (the first menstrual period) and late menopause are suspected of increasing lifetime risk for developing
Estrogen Lowers Breast Cancer and Heart Attack Risk in Some [SEP] Women's Health Initiative // of the hormone therapy trial (HT) was approached with the hypothesis that estrogen therapy would result in a decrease in coronary heart disease and osteoporosis-related fractures. As such, the primary outcome of interest was coronary heart disease, as this is a major cause of morbidity and mortality among women, particularly those over age 65, and because, at the time, no clinical trial had been undertaken to prove the cardioprotective effects of HT. Due to the concern over the relationship between HT and elevated breast cancer risk, breast cancer was selected as the primary adverse outcome. Additional outcomes monitored included stroke,
Estrogen Lowers Breast Cancer and Heart Attack Risk in Some [SEP] Bernadine Healy // a $625 million effort to study the causes, prevention, and cures of diseases that affect women at midlife and beyond. The study continues to unearth critical information, including evidence in 2002 that combined hormone replacement therapy increases the risk of invasive breast cancers by 26% and heart attack by 27% as well as an increased risk for stroke. The study's findings have resulted in a permanent 15% annual reduction in invasive estrogen positive breast cancer in post menopausal women in the U.S.; The HRT (hormone replacement) drug market in the United States simultaneously dropped by 50% to $1 billion, twelve
Estrogen Lowers Breast Cancer and Heart Attack Risk in Some [SEP] Hormone replacement therapy // take the lowest feasible dose of HRTHRT, and for the shortest possible time, to minimize risk. The data published by the WHI suggested supplemental estrogen increased risk of venous emboli and breast cancer but was protective against osteoporosis and colorectal cancer, while the impact on cardiovascular disease was mixed. These results were later confirmed in trials from the United Kingdom, but not in more recent studies from France and China. Genetic polymorphism appears to be associated with inter-individual variability in metabolic response to HRT in postmenopausal women. These recommendations have not held up with further data analysis, however. Subsequent findings
Estrogen Lowers Breast Cancer and Heart Attack Risk in Some [SEP] Estrogen (medication) // due to adverse effects. The usefulness of high-dose estrogen therapy in the treatment of ER-positive breast cancer is attributed to a bimodal effect in which high concentrations of estrogens signal breast cancer cells to undergo apoptosis, in contrast to lower concentrations of estrogens which stimulate their growth. A 2017 systematic review and meta-analysis of 14 studies assessed the risk of breast cancer in perimenopausal and postmenopausal women treated with estrogens for menopausal symptoms. They found that treatment with estradiol only is not associated with an increased risk of breast cancer ( = 0.90 in and = 1.11 in observational studies).
Estrogen Lowers Breast Cancer and Heart Attack Risk in Some [SEP] Nurses' Health Study // Replacement Therapy would lead to large decreases in risk of heart disease (a third of the risk of those who did not take supplements). However, the Framingham Heart Study fond the opposite result. This controversy caused a 10 year follow up by the Nurses' Health Study which again concluded that risks of CVD were lower in samples currently taking hormones. However, further studies such as the Heart and Estrogen-progestin Replacement Study found that estrogen tablets actually increase risk for heart disease. This was a double-blind trial following an experimental group of women who were given replacement therapy pills and a
Estrogen Lowers Breast Cancer and Heart Attack Risk in Some [SEP] Women's Health Initiative // of previous observational studies. On the other hand, there were indications for an increased risk of stroke. Unopposed estrogen did reduce the risk for osteoporotic fractures and, unlike the estrogen/progestin treatment, showed a decrease in breast cancer risk. As a consequence of the findings, which indicated that the incurred risks of HT outweigh the identified benefits, the study authors recommended that HT not be prescribed for the purpose of chronic disease prevention in postmenopausal women. The hypothesized and observed risks of specific clinical outcomes are summarized in the following table. Of particular interest are the contrasts between several of the
Estrogen Lowers Breast Cancer and Heart Attack Risk in Some [SEP] Breast cancer // second breast in a person who has breast cancer (contralateral risk‐reducing mastectomy or CRRM) may reduce the risk of cancer in the second breast, however, it is unclear if removing the second breast in those who have breast cancer improves survival. The selective estrogen receptor modulators (such as tamoxifen) reduce the risk of breast cancer but increase the risk of thromboembolism and endometrial cancer. There is no overall change in the risk of death. They are thus not recommended for the prevention of breast cancer in women at average risk but may be offered for those at high risk. The
Estrogen Lowers Breast Cancer and Heart Attack Risk in Some [SEP] Women's Health Initiative // estrogen-plus-progestin trial, there was a sharp decrease in breast cancer risk in the early post-intervention period, though the hazard ratio remained greater than 1, followed by a sustained risk during the late post-intervention period that was significantly greater than 1. It is hypothesized that the initial decrease was due to the resulting change in the hormone environment, while the subsequent persistent increase in breast cancer incidence may be attributed to the persistence of oncogenic mutations and subsequent expansion of these mutation-harboring cell lineages. In contrast, breast cancer risk was significantly lower for the estrogen-alone group compared to placebo during the
Estrogen Lowers Breast Cancer and Heart Attack Risk in Some [SEP] Estrogen (medication) // enlargement, headache, nausea, fluid retention, and edema among others. Other side effects of estrogens include an increased risk of blood clots, cardiovascular disease, and, when combined with most progestogens, breast cancer. In men, estrogens can cause breast development, feminization, infertility, low testosterone levels, and sexual dysfunction among others. Estrogens are agonists of the estrogen receptors, the biological targets of endogenous estrogens like estradiol. They have important effects in many tissues in the body, including in the female reproductive system (uterus, vagina, and ovaries), the breasts, bone, fat, the liver, and the brain among others. Unlike other medications like progestins and
Thailand extends ban on incoming passenger flights. [SEP] Department of Civil Aviation (Thailand) // face possible bans on new routes. Existing routes would continue as normal. Japan and South Korea have already responded to the possible downgrade by banning requests for future flight plans and banning all charter flights from Thailand-registered companies. A source within Thai Airways criticized the Department of Civil Aviation, "Their lack of attention to detail is costing us all..." On 2 April 2015 a Thai civil aviation delegation journeyed to Seoul to attempt to deflect Korean sanctions. They failed to convince the Koreans. Three Thai charter carriers will not be permitted to fly to Korea in April. About 10,000 passengers
Thailand extends ban on incoming passenger flights. [SEP] Surayud Chulanont // opened Suvarnabhumi Airport alone was incapable of handling future traffic volume and that the airport was unsafe. The decision met with strong opposition from Airports of Thailand, the Civil Aviation Department, the Board of Airline Representatives in Thailand (BAR), the International Air Transport Association (IATA), the Thai Airways International labour union, and many domestic and international airlines, including Thai Airways and the Star Alliance. 60 airlines threatened to halt flights to Thailand if they were forced to move back to Don Muang airport. A two-week investigation led by Tortrakul Yomnak, a chief engineer for Airports of Thailand and prominent supporter
Thailand extends ban on incoming passenger flights. [SEP] Thai Airways International Flight 261 // Thai Airways International Flight 261 Thai Airways International Flight 261 (TG261/THA261) was a scheduled domestic passenger flight from Bangkok's Don Mueang International Airport, Thailand to Surat Thani International Airport in Surat Thani, Thailand. The flight was operated by Thai Airways International, the flag carrier of Thailand. On 11 December 1998, the aircraft, an Airbus A310-204 registered in Thailand as HS-TIA, stalled and crashed in a rice paddy on its landing attempt at Surat Thani Airport. A total of 101 people were killed in the crash. Thailand's Aircraft Accident Investigation Committee (AAIC) opened an investigation into the accident. The investigation revealed
Thailand extends ban on incoming passenger flights. [SEP] 2008 Thai political crisis // PAD forces also forced their way into the control tower, demanding the flight plan for Prime Minister Somchai Wongsawat's return from the APEC summit in Peru. Somchai flew into Bangkok Don Muang airport on the evening of 25 November 2008 before flying on to Chiang Mai. After hours of turmoil, the Airports of Thailand, AOT, eventually decided that all Suvarnabhumi flights were suspended, leaving thousands of travelers stranded in the airport., this action led to the official closure of the airport later. The government called on the Royal Thai Army to restore order at the airport. The Army did not
Thailand extends ban on incoming passenger flights. [SEP] Thai Airways // the country either lacks laws or regulations necessary to oversee air carriers in accordance with minimum international standards, or its civil aviation authority—a body equivalent to the FAA for aviation safety matters—is deficient in one or more areas, such as technical expertise, trained personnel, record-keeping, or inspection procedures. With a Category 2 rating, Thailand's air carriers can continue existing routes to the United States but they won't be allowed to establish new routes to the United States." The European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) declined to blacklist any Thai carriers following a review of certain carriers in November 2015. THAI later
Thailand extends ban on incoming passenger flights. [SEP] Orient Thai Airlines // Mueang District, Bangkok. On 22 July 2008, shortly after the crash of One-Two-GO Airlines Flight 269 in Phuket which killed 89 people, and after the Internet publication of illegally excessive work hours and check ride fraud, Orient Thai and One-Two-GO were ordered to suspend service for 56 days. On 22 September 2010, Orient Thai took delivery of its first Boeing 747-400 aircraft, previously registered as N548MD, and arrived at the Orient Thai base as HS-STC. In November 2015, Orient Thai Airways signed a contract with the Amadeus IT Group to be listed in Global Distribution Systems for the first time.
Thailand extends ban on incoming passenger flights. [SEP] Phuket Air // on 12 September 2005. In the 2005-2006 Hajj season, Phuket Airlines provided Boeing 747-200 and 747-300 aircraft on a short term wet lease to Saudi Arabian Airlines. The carrier commissioned Air France Industries, the aircraft maintenance-service arm of the French flag carrier, to hep lift Phuket Airlines' safety standards which was successful in lifting the EU ban. In late 2006-07, the airline flew charters for the Saudi Arabia Ministry of the Interior flying out deportees. On 6 March 2007, the European Commission, the EU's executive arm, removed Phuket Air from its list of blacklisted airlines after Phuket Air complied with
Thailand extends ban on incoming passenger flights. [SEP] Suvarnabhumi Airport // solution," said Tony Tyler, IATA's director general and CEO. In January 2007, Thai Airways announced a plan to move some of its domestic operations back to Don Mueang International Airport due to overcrowding. Three days later, the Ministry of Transport recommended temporarily reopening Don Mueang while repair work on the runways at Suvarnabhumi proceeded. At that time, Thai Airways said it would shift most of its domestic flights back to Don Mueang while keeping flights with high international passenger connections such as Chiang Mai and Phuket at Suvarnabhumi. On 28 March 2009, Thai Airways discontinued all domestic flights from Don
Thailand extends ban on incoming passenger flights. [SEP] Visa policy of Thailand // Airlines, Indigo, Intira Airlines, Jeju Air, Jet Asia Airways, Jetstar Asia Airways, Jetstar Pacific, Jin Air, Juneyao Airlines, Lao Central Airlines, Tigerair Mandala, Norwegian Air, Orient Thai Airlines, Regent Airways, Shandong Airlines, Sichuan Airlines, South East Asian Airlines, SpiceJet, Spring Airlines, T'way Airlines, Thai Smile, Tigerair or VietJet Air. Those transiting through Don Mueang International Airport for less than 12 hours do not require a visa only when travelling on Thai AirAsia or Thai AirAsia X. Citizens of Pakistan are required to obtain a visa when transiting through Thailand at all times. Holders of passports issued by the following countries
Thailand extends ban on incoming passenger flights. [SEP] Visa policy of Thailand // visa-on-arrival fee waived for 60 days, in an effort to bolster tourism numbers. There are 48 Immigration checkpoints providing visa on arrival, including: International Airport Land and harbor checkpoint From 21 November 2018 Thailand started issuing tourist visas valid for 15 days in a simplified procedure to visitors from the countries whose citizens are eligible for visa on arrival. Electronic visa application will also become available in February 2019. Passengers transiting through Suvarnabhumi Airport for less than 12 hours do not require a visa, unless they are travelling on Angkor Air, Beijing Capital Airlines, Cebu Pacific, Eastar Jet, Golden Myanmar
Beloved Mote Marine sea turtle gets new Broward County home. [SEP] Environmental issues in Brevard County // hemisphere and the second most important nesting beach in the world. Twenty-five percent of all loggerhead sea turtle and 35% of all green sea turtle nests in the United States occur in this twenty mile (32 km) zone. The Marine Resources Council focuses on issues affecting the Indian River Lagoon through its programs on shoreline restoration, water quality monitoring and right whale watching. It is possible to watch right whales from December through March as they migrate to their summer home in the South Atlantic. A recent inventory disclosed a growing incidence of diseases, including cancers, lesions and tumors in
Beloved Mote Marine sea turtle gets new Broward County home. [SEP] Environmental issues in Brevard County // The water quality near shore, which was rarely below standard, did not change. Sea turtles nest on Brevard shores. They are sensitive to night lights which have affected their reproduction locally. The not-for-profit Sea Turtle Preservation Society (STPS) educates the public about marine turtles. The Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission and U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service permits STPS to work with these endangered and threatened sea turtles. The Archie Carr National Wildlife Refuge contains a twenty-mile (32 km) section of coastline from Melbourne Beach south. This is the most important nesting area for loggerhead sea turtles in the western
Beloved Mote Marine sea turtle gets new Broward County home. [SEP] Mote Marine Laboratory // Fisheries Ecology & Enhancement; Coral Reef Monitoring & Assessment; Coral Reef Restoration; Environmental Health; Ocean Technology; Marine Immunology; Benthic Ecology; Marine Biomedical Research; Environmental Laboratory for Forensics; Sea Turtle Conservation & Research; Manatee Research; and the Sarasota Dolphin Research Program a partnership of the Chicago Zoological Society and Mote that conducts the world's longest-running study of a wild dolphin population. Since 1978, the Laboratory has expanded to include a campus in Sarasota, the Elizabeth Moore International Center for Coral Reef Research & Restoration on Summerland Key; a public exhibit in Key West; a Boca Grande Outreach Office; and Mote Aquaculture
Beloved Mote Marine sea turtle gets new Broward County home. [SEP] Mote Marine Laboratory // of larval fish, and other projects designed to inform and contribute to the growth of sustainable, commercial aquaculture . Mote Marine Laboratory Mote Marine Laboratory is an independent, not-for-profit, marine research organization based on City Island in Sarasota, Florida, with additional campuses in eastern Sarasota County, Boca Grande, Florida, and the Florida Keys. Founded in 1955 by Dr. Eugenie Clark in Placida, Florida, it was known as the Cape Haze Marine Laboratory until 1967. The Lab aims to advance marine science and education, supporting conservation and sustainable use of marine resources. The public Mote Aquarium and associated education program translate
Beloved Mote Marine sea turtle gets new Broward County home. [SEP] Mote Marine Laboratory // Research Park in eastern Sarasota County. In addition to staff members, Mote has about 1,400 volunteers who contribute more than 200,000 volunteer hours to the organization. Mote Aquarium is the public outreach arm of Mote Marine Laboratory, displaying more than 100 marine species with a focus on species and ecosystems studied by Mote scientists. Mote Aquarium is accredited by the Association of Zoos and Aquariums, which accredits qualified facilities based on a rigorous application and inspection process focusing on animal care, conservation and science, facilities and more. The Aquarium opened in 1980 on City Island in Sarasota Bay. Visitors can
Beloved Mote Marine sea turtle gets new Broward County home. [SEP] Environmental issues in Brevard County // Association (SCCCCA) is to advise and educate the public on conservation of marine resources. It is primarily interested in conserving fisheries for sportsman. There has been concern over the pace of manatee perinatal deaths in 2009. This pace may adversely affect attempts to preserve the species. Bottlenose dolphins have become stranded in the Indian River Lagoon usually resulting in their deaths. The highest number of annual deaths in the lagoon which covers another country besides Brevard, was 62 in 2008. The percentage found in the Brevard portion is about 80%. The Port Canaveral entry along with two jetties, block the
Beloved Mote Marine sea turtle gets new Broward County home. [SEP] Mote Marine Laboratory // Mote Marine Laboratory Mote Marine Laboratory is an independent, not-for-profit, marine research organization based on City Island in Sarasota, Florida, with additional campuses in eastern Sarasota County, Boca Grande, Florida, and the Florida Keys. Founded in 1955 by Dr. Eugenie Clark in Placida, Florida, it was known as the Cape Haze Marine Laboratory until 1967. The Lab aims to advance marine science and education, supporting conservation and sustainable use of marine resources. The public Mote Aquarium and associated education program translate Mote research for the public. Mote Marine Laboratory, founded by Dr. Eugenie Clark in 1955 in Placida, Florida, was
Beloved Mote Marine sea turtle gets new Broward County home. [SEP] Seagate (Manatee County, Florida) // a parcel of land, in addition to facilities in other locations. The Crosely's Mediterranean Revival-style house, auxiliary garages, and living quarters for staff were designed by New York architect George Albree Freeman Jr., while Ivo A. de Minicis, a Tampa, Florida, architect, drafted the plans. The property in the southwest corner of Manatee County included the mansion with its porte-cochere entry, flagstone patio and walkways, a swimming pool, fountains, a seaplane dock, and a yacht basin. Some reports stated that Paul W. Bergmann, a Sarasota contractor, built the two-and-a-half-story, cast stone and stucco home for the Crosleys in 135 days.
Beloved Mote Marine sea turtle gets new Broward County home. [SEP] Environmental issues in Brevard County // dolphins, turtles and fish. Most recently, some shrimp and blue crab populations have been infected with a flesh-eating parasite, and scientists warn health problems may one day arise in people who use the estuary as well. The increasing appearance of invasive species—such as an Asian green mussel recently found—which can beat out other species for space in the lagoon and erode native diversity. Shrinkage has been documented in the lagoon's rich biodiversity and degradation of its water quality from crystal clear to murky green, which threaten its fisheries and Brevard's tourism industries. The Space Coast Chapter of the Coastal Conservation
Beloved Mote Marine sea turtle gets new Broward County home. [SEP] National Fish and Wildlife Foundation // acres of habitat for migratory birds. NFWF also worked with government agencies and FedEx Corporation to rescue approximately 25,000 sea turtle eggs from contamination in oiled waters. The eggs were dug out of their nests on the western shores of Florida and FedEx trucked overland to the state’s unaffected eastern beaches. After incubation, the new hatchlings were released into the Atlantic Ocean. NFWF is working with other partners to increase nesting success on other Florida beaches, where 90 percent of all U.S. sea turtle nesting occurs. It has also funded efforts to reduce the mortality of juvenile and adult sea
Judge weighs whether NC schools conspired to depress wages. [SEP] Charlotte-Mecklenburg Schools // aid from universities and other organizations, and $12.1 million in athletic scholarships. In May 2005, Wake County Superior Court Judge Howard Manning Jr. issued a ruling in which he accused CMS of "academic genocide" against at-risk, low-income students in low-scoring high schools. Since the debut of its new student assignment plan in 2002, and the end of its court-ordered busing program, CMS has seen an increase in concentrations of poverty, with schools that have student-poverty rates of at least 75 percent at twice the number they were before. In the same year, Judge Manning also threatened to close 4 of
Judge weighs whether NC schools conspired to depress wages. [SEP] Rob Bryan // issued a permanent injunction prohibiting any more tax funds from being disbursed for vouchers. The Supreme Court of North Carolina agreed to hear an appeal prior to a resolution from the NC Court of Appeals and, in July 2015, overturned Judge Hobgood's order in a 4-3 decision. The majority of the State Supreme Court found the Program to be constitutional and ordered the scholarships to be continued. During the Program's three years, the scholarships have been widely sought after and the Program continues to grow. During the 2014-2015 school year, the North Carolina State Education Assistance Authority received applications from
Judge weighs whether NC schools conspired to depress wages. [SEP] University of North Carolina academic-athletic scandal // an analysis by Dan Kane of the Raleigh "News & Observer" found that the Honor Court failed to find multiple instances of plagiarism in McAdoo's paper. On July 13, a North Carolina Superior Court judge in Durham refused to grant an injunction against the NCAA, thus upholding ineligibility for McAdoo. Then in August, Dan Kane reported that football player Marvin Austin took a 400-level course in the department the summer before his freshman fall semester. According to an academic adviser at the university, "it is unusual for any freshman to begin his or her college education with a 400 level
Judge weighs whether NC schools conspired to depress wages. [SEP] Charlotte School of Law // Charlotte School of Law alleging fraud, violations of the North Carolina Deceptive Trade Practices Act, and other claims. The students claim that "money ruled, not education. And they left a lot of poor folks holding the bag." Faculty recently laid off by the school are also considering wrongful termination lawsuits. Beginning on June 21, 2017, the school operated on a restricted license. The required contingencies were not met, and the school's license expired on August 10, 2017. On August 15, 2017, the "New York Times" reported that the North Carolina attorney general had confirmed that Charlotte School of Law had
Judge weighs whether NC schools conspired to depress wages. [SEP] Industrial Workers of the World philosophy and tactics // generally been declared unconstitutional by the courts. Furthermore, an additional weapon has been placed in the hands of the employers by many courts in the form of sweeping injunctions, which render punishable acts which would otherwise be legal, and also result in effect in depriving the workers of the right to jury trial. The report includes the testimony of Judge Walter Clark, Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of North Carolina: Chairman Walsh. Have you studied the effect of the use of injunctions in labor disputes generally in the United States, as a student of economics and the law? Judge
Judge weighs whether NC schools conspired to depress wages. [SEP] National Bureau of Economic Research // arguing that they were a reaction to Jim Crow laws and tend to isolate African-American students from other racial groups. Controlling for test scores, majors, and other scholastic factors, the study looks at administrative data from North Carolina K-12 public schools of eighth graders both in 1999 and 2004, categorized both by race and socioeconomic standing. It then tracks these students through their expected graduation dates of both high school and college, given they continued to a North Carolina university, and they examined whatever racial stratification occurred within those time periods based on enrollment and graduation rates at each university.
Judge weighs whether NC schools conspired to depress wages. [SEP] Thomas Jefferson School of Law // post-graduation employment statistics and salary data in order to bait new students into enrolling. Alaburda, a 2008 honors graduate, claimed that despite graduating at the top of her class and passing the California bar exam, she was unable to find suitable legal employment, and had racked up more than $150,000 in student loan debt. This is the first time a law school would stand trial for allegedly inflating its employment statistics. The jury found in favor of TJSL with a 9-3 verdict. TJSL has been recognized in recent reports for transparency about graduate employment. In 2012 the National Jurist ranked
Judge weighs whether NC schools conspired to depress wages. [SEP] Black Student Movement // was then otherwise unused. Those arrested retained Charlotte attorneys Julius Chambers and Adam Stein to represent them.Ultimately, the UNC Non-Academic Employees Union was formed and its requests were prioritized: a minimum wage of $1.80 per hour, the appointment of a black supervisor, and time-and-a-half for overtime work. The strike came to an end on March 21, 1969, “when Gov. Scott agreed to pass legislation that would raise not only the Lenoir workers’ wages to $1.80 an hour, but also the wages of all other minimum wage workers across the state.” During 1968, the Movement staged several protest marches following the
Judge weighs whether NC schools conspired to depress wages. [SEP] Greene County Schools (North Carolina) // routes. The strike lasted four days and affected approximately 2800 black students in the county. It was resolved after parents were able to meet with school board members and work to move up the date for voting on a bond referendum for improvements to the county's Black high school. In 2005, former Senator John Edwards established a model scholarship program in the Greene County Schools system that he touted during his 2008 US presidential campaign. The College for Everyone program was administered by Edwards' Center for Promise and Opportunity Foundation. After Edwards lost his bid for the Democratic Party nomination,
Judge weighs whether NC schools conspired to depress wages. [SEP] The Daily Tar Heel // The lawsuit was on behalf of itself, the Capital Broadcasting Company, the Charlotte Observer Publishing Company and The Durham Herald Company. On May 3, 2017, Judge Allen Baddour, a Superior Court Judge in Wake and Orange County, ruled that UNC is not required to provide those public records. He stated that Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act and the State Human Resources Act protects students and employees, respectively. The "DTH" has a long-standing bet with editors of "The Chronicle", Duke University's student newspaper. When the two schools' men's basketball teams first play, the losing school's paper must run its masthead
The Obama administration ... would impose on every Catholic institution, every Jewish institution, every Protestant institution the Obamacare standard of what you have to buy as insurance. [SEP] Contraceptive mandate // are also opposed by active Christian Evangelicals. Other organizations, such as Planned Parenthood, supported the provision. In response to the criticism, the Obama administration proposed changes under which birth control medication would be provided by the insurers without direct involvement by the religious organization. Regulations were issued on March 16, 2012 for employees of enterprises controlled by religious institutions which self insure. Further regulations were issued on March 16, 2012 which require coverage for students at institutions controlled by religious organizations which purchase insurance. It is believed by the federal government that it is not possible under current law to
The Obama administration ... would impose on every Catholic institution, every Jewish institution, every Protestant institution the Obamacare standard of what you have to buy as insurance. [SEP] Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act // In March 2012, the Roman Catholic Church, while supportive of ACA's objectives, voiced concern through the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops that aspects of the mandate covering contraception and sterilization and HHS's narrow definition of a religious organization violated the First Amendment right to free exercise of religion and conscience. Various lawsuits addressed these concerns. On June 25, 2015, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled 6–3 that federal subsidies for health insurance premiums could be used in the 34 states that did not set up their own insurance exchanges. In "United States House of Representatives v. Price" (previously "United States
The Obama administration ... would impose on every Catholic institution, every Jewish institution, every Protestant institution the Obamacare standard of what you have to buy as insurance. [SEP] Contraceptive mandate // require contraceptive coverage for students at institutions controlled by religious organizations which self insure. The Catholic Health Association (CHA) accepted this compromise. Although initially more supportive, Sister Carol Keehan, CEO of the CHA, registered opposition in a five-page letter to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. The vice president of Catholic identity and mission at Mount St. Mary's University, Stuart Swetland, said, "It shows [Obama] and the administration are listening to our concerns", but reserved the right to "examine the details". However, the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops continued to oppose the regulation, saying that the regulation
The Obama administration ... would impose on every Catholic institution, every Jewish institution, every Protestant institution the Obamacare standard of what you have to buy as insurance. [SEP] Catholic Democrats // and launching a campaign against the Obama Administration centered on the idea that the government was responsible for an attack on religious liberty. That campaign focused on gay marriage, and later on whether employees of Catholic hospitals and universities should have insurance coverage for contraception. In a February 2012 interview on C-SPAN, Catholic Democrats Board member Kathleen Kennedy Townsend strongly supported the administration’s efforts to provide wider access to contraceptives, with their potential for decreasing the number of abortions. But in an opinion piece the same week in the Philadelphia Inquirer, Archbishop Chaput said that the administration was motivated by
The Obama administration ... would impose on every Catholic institution, every Jewish institution, every Protestant institution the Obamacare standard of what you have to buy as insurance. [SEP] Barack Obama // reduction in the federal deficit by $143 billion over the first decade. The law faced several legal challenges, primarily based on the argument that an individual mandate requiring Americans to buy health insurance was unconstitutional. On June 28, 2012, the Supreme Court ruled by a 5–4 vote in "National Federation of Independent Business v. Sebelius" that the mandate was constitutional under the U.S. Congress's taxing authority. In "Burwell v. Hobby Lobby" the Court ruled that "closely-held" for-profit corporations could be exempt on religious grounds under the Religious Freedom Restoration Act from regulations adopted under the ACA that would have required
The Obama administration ... would impose on every Catholic institution, every Jewish institution, every Protestant institution the Obamacare standard of what you have to buy as insurance. [SEP] Melissa Rogers // Post with respect to the Affordable Care Act’s contraception mandate. She stated that the administration erred in only exempting houses of worship from the ACA’s requirement that employers include contraception coverage in their health insurance policies. Her ideas later became the basis for the administration’s accommodation of the interests of a wider set of religious entities. In 2014, the Baptist Joint Committee gave Rogers its J.M. Dawson Religious Liberty Award. In 2015, Rogers continued to lead the White House Office of Faith-Based and Neighborhood Partnerships. After a Sikh man in California was attacked and severely injured, Rogers represented the Obama
The Obama administration ... would impose on every Catholic institution, every Jewish institution, every Protestant institution the Obamacare standard of what you have to buy as insurance. [SEP] Health insurance mandate // express my opposition to the Obama proposal at every opportunity.") The "New York Times" wrote: "It can be difficult to remember now, given the ferocity with which many Republicans assail it as an attack on freedom, but the provision in President Obama's health care law requiring all Americans to buy health insurance has its roots in conservative thinking." Other Republican politicians who had previously supported individual mandates, including Romney and Orrin Hatch, similarly emerged as vocal critics of the mandate in Obama's legislation. Writing in "The New Yorker", Ezra Klein stated that "the end result was... a policy that once
The Obama administration ... would impose on every Catholic institution, every Jewish institution, every Protestant institution the Obamacare standard of what you have to buy as insurance. [SEP] Implementation history of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act // or oversight practices" in developing the ACA website. In "Burwell v. Hobby Lobby" the Supreme Court exempted closely held corporations with religious convictions from the contraception rule. In "Wheaton College vs Burwell" the Court issued an injunction allowing the evangelical college and other religiously affiliated nonprofit groups to completely ignore the contraceptive mandate. A study found that average premiums for the second-cheapest ( silver) plan were 10–21% less than average individual market premiums in 2013, while covering many more conditions. Credit for the reduced premiums was attributed to increased competition stimulated by the larger market, greater authority to review premium
The Obama administration ... would impose on every Catholic institution, every Jewish institution, every Protestant institution the Obamacare standard of what you have to buy as insurance. [SEP] Economic policy of the Barack Obama administration // and who don’t have the same kind of flexibility as the federal government in dealing with fewer revenues coming in." President Obama followed with the legislation that bears his name ("Obamacare"), the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010. It was built on three related concepts, including: 1) Subsidies for low-income persons to help them purchase health insurance; 2) Guaranteed issue and community rating, meaning persons with pre-existing medical conditions could not be discriminated against; and 3) Coverage requirements, enforced via both individual and employer "mandates" with financial incentives supporting them, to ensure healthy people (with few medical bills)
The Obama administration ... would impose on every Catholic institution, every Jewish institution, every Protestant institution the Obamacare standard of what you have to buy as insurance. [SEP] Barack Obama // them to pay for insurance that covered certain contraceptives. In June 2015, the Court ruled 6–3 in "King v. Burwell" that subsidies to help individuals and families purchase health insurance were authorized for those doing so on both the federal exchange and state exchanges, not only those purchasing plans "established by the State", as the statute reads. Prior to June 2014, Obama offered substantial support for a broadly-based "All of the above" approach to domestic energy policy, which Obama has maintained since his first term and which he last confirmed at his State of the Union speech in January 2014
In Yemen, world's worst cholera outbreak traced to eastern Africa. [SEP] 2016–18 Yemen cholera outbreak // cases were no longer in a life-threatening situation. The cholera outbreak in Yemen gained global attention. The PBS article "Biggest challenge of Yemen’s humanitarian crisis is making the world pay attention" and the Independent's article on "Yemen cholera outbreak set to be the worst on record" were two of many reports that drew attention to the magnitude of the crisis. Headlines highlighted that the outbreak was spiraling out of control and could potentially affect more than 1 million lives by 2018. Doctors Without Borders reported that a Saudi Arabian coalition airstrike struck a new Médecins Sans Frontières cholera treatment center
In Yemen, world's worst cholera outbreak traced to eastern Africa. [SEP] Yemen // is affecting 17 million people. The lack of safe drinking water, caused by depleted aquifers and the destruction of the country's water infrastructure, has also caused the world's worst outbreak of cholera, with the number of suspected cases exceeding 994,751. Over 2,226 people have died since the outbreak began to spread rapidly at the end of April 2017. In 2016 the United Nations reported that Yemen is the country with the most people in need of humanitarian aid in the world with 21.2 million. Yemen was mentioned in Old South Arabian inscriptions as "Yamnat". In Arabic literature, the term "al-Yaman"
In Yemen, world's worst cholera outbreak traced to eastern Africa. [SEP] 2016–18 Yemen cholera outbreak // this outbreak have not been paid their salaries for nearly 10 months." The outbreak is of an "unprecedented scale", according to the World Health Organization (WHO), one of the worst in recorded history. The cholera outbreak began in early October 2016. The World Health Organization (WHO) considers the outbreak to be unusual in its rapid and wide geographical spread. The earliest cases were predominantly in the capital, Sana'a, with some occurring in Aden. By the end of October, cases had been reported in the governorates of Al-Bayda, Aden, Al-Hudaydah, Hajjah, Ibb, Lahij and Taiz and, by late November, also in
In Yemen, world's worst cholera outbreak traced to eastern Africa. [SEP] Yemeni Crisis (2011–present) // cholera epidemic has begun in Yemen during the civil war. In July 2017, the United Nations Humanitarian Relief coordinator said that over 320,000 cases had been reported. He also blamed the epidemic on the war and on international forces supporting the combatants. As of October 2017, it was described as already the worst cholera outbreak in recorded history, with over 800,000 cases. Yemeni Crisis (2011–present) The Yemeni Crisis began with the 2011–12 revolution against President Ali Abdullah Saleh, who had led Yemen for more than three decades. After Saleh left office in early 2012 as part of a mediated agreement
In Yemen, world's worst cholera outbreak traced to eastern Africa. [SEP] 2016–18 Yemen cholera outbreak // in Abs, in northwestern Yemen. Doctors Without Borders reported that they had provided GPS coordinates to Saudi Arabia on twelve separate occasions, and had received nine written responses confirming receipt of those coordinates Note 1: Starting in December 2017, The World Health Organization began counting cases of cholera from 27 April 2017 onwards instead of from October 2016. This is resolved by adding 26 070 suspected cholera cases and 120 deaths from December onwards. Note 2: Starting on 8 November 2018, The World Health Organization began counting cases of cholera from 1 January 2018 onwards instead of from 27 April
In Yemen, world's worst cholera outbreak traced to eastern Africa. [SEP] 2016–18 Yemen cholera outbreak // deaths, were reported. By 24 June 2017, UNICEF and WHO estimated that the total number of cases in the country since the outbreak began in October had exceeded 200,000, with 1,300 deaths, and that 5,000 new cases a day were occurring. The two agencies stated that it was then "the worst cholera outbreak in the world". Approximately half of the cases, and a quarter of the deaths, were among children. As of 12 June 2017, the case fatality rate for the outbreak was 0.7%, with higher rates in people over 60 years old (3.2%). The serotype of "Vibrio cholerae" involved
In Yemen, world's worst cholera outbreak traced to eastern Africa. [SEP] 2016–18 Yemen cholera outbreak // is Ougawa. A total of 268 districts from 20 of the country's 23 governorates had reported cases by 21 June 2017; over half are from the governorates of Amanat Al Asimah (the capital Sana'a), Al Hudeideh, Amran and Hajjah, which are all located in the west of the country. On 23 June 2017, Saudi Arabia authorized a donation in excess of $66 million, while continuing its airstrikes and military operations in Yemen. By 4 July 2017, there were 269,608 cases and the death toll was at 1,614 with a total case fatality rate of 0.6%. From 27 April to 14
In Yemen, world's worst cholera outbreak traced to eastern Africa. [SEP] Cholera // year. It is difficult to calculate exact numbers of cases, as many go unreported due to concerns that an outbreak may have a negative impact on the tourism of a country. Cholera remains both epidemic and endemic in many areas of the world. In October 2016, an outbreak of cholera began in war-ravaged Yemen. WHO called it "the worst cholera outbreak in the world". Although much is known about the mechanisms behind the spread of cholera, this has not led to a full understanding of what makes cholera outbreaks happen in some places and not others. Lack of treatment of
In Yemen, world's worst cholera outbreak traced to eastern Africa. [SEP] Yemen // from rivers and lakes that isn't sanitary. Cholera is prominently found in contaminated drinking water, making the Yemeni people, especially children, the most prone to such a disease. There have been reported more than 815,000 suspected cases of Cholera in Yemen over the past three years, 60% percent of them being children. Cholera can be found in majority of Yemen, mostly concentrated in the cities closer to water. Cholera currently kills an estimated 95,000 people per year and infects upwards of 2.9 million people. Diphtheria has spread throughout Yemen infecting upwards of 1,300 people as of March 2018, 80% of
In Yemen, world's worst cholera outbreak traced to eastern Africa. [SEP] 2016–18 Yemen cholera outbreak // region around the port city of Hodeidah. Eight governates were reporting an increase in suspected cases. Since April 2017, 1.2 million suspected cases had been reported with 2510 deaths (a low case fatality rate of 0.21% suggested some non-cholera diarrhea). About a third of the suspected cases were children under 5 years of age. As of October 2018, 2980 cases were confirmed. In May, on oral cholera vaccine campaign was launched, but the shortages of vaccine and the ongoing conflict made delivery into all areas difficult. UNICEF and WHO attributed the outbreak to malnutrition and collapsing sanitation and clean water
The artificial sweetener Splenda was inadequately tested and is unsafe for human consumption. [SEP] Sugar substitute // gum, baked goods, and other foods. Unlike other artificial sweeteners, it is stable when heated and can therefore be used in baked and fried goods. Discovered in 1976, the FDA approved sucralose for use in 1998. Most of the controversy surrounding Splenda, a sucralose sweetener, is focused not on safety but on its marketing. It has been marketed with the slogan, "Splenda is made from sugar, so it tastes like sugar." Sucralose is prepared from either of two sugars, sucrose or raffinose. With either base sugar, processing replaces three oxygen-hydrogen groups in the sugar molecule with three chlorine atoms. The
The artificial sweetener Splenda was inadequately tested and is unsafe for human consumption. [SEP] Russell Blaylock // the widely used artificial sweetener aspartame is toxic and may be the cause of multiple sclerosis. He has additionally cautioned against heavy use of the artificial sweetener Splenda (sucralose). These positions are not supported by scientific consensus or regulatory bodies, as extensive studies support the safety of aspartame, sucralose, and MSG. Blaylock has called the American medical system 'collectivist' and has suggested that health-care reform efforts under President Obama are masterminded by extragovernmental groups that wish to impose euthanasia. He blamed the purported collectivism of American medicine for the retirement of his friend Miguel Faria. According to Blaylock, the former
The artificial sweetener Splenda was inadequately tested and is unsafe for human consumption. [SEP] Splenda // body weight, and increased levels of P-glycoprotein (P-gp). These effects have not been reported in humans. In response, McNeil Nutritionals, along with an expert panel that included scientists from Duke University, Rutgers University, New York Medical College, Harvard School of Public Health, and Columbia University reported in "Regulatory Toxicology and Pharmacology" that the Duke study was "not scientifically rigorous and is deficient in several critical areas that preclude reliable interpretation of the study results". The other ingredients in Splenda—dextrose and maltodextrin—are listed as generally recognized as safe because of their long history of safe consumption. Sucralose may not be completely
The artificial sweetener Splenda was inadequately tested and is unsafe for human consumption. [SEP] Splenda // biologically inert, and a study showed that cooking with sucralose at high temperatures could cause it to degrade into potentially toxic compounds. However, only a very small amount (approximately 2–8% of sucralose consumed) is metabolized by the body, on average, and the amount of sucralose present in Splenda is slight. In 2006, Merisant, the maker of Equal, filed suit against McNeil Nutritionals in U.S. District Court, Philadelphia, alleging that Splenda's tagline; "made from sugar, so it tastes like sugar" is misleading. McNeil argued during the trial that it had never deceived consumers or set out to deceive them, since the
The artificial sweetener Splenda was inadequately tested and is unsafe for human consumption. [SEP] Diet Coke // aspartame, and acesulfame potassium. The most commonly distributed version of Diet Coke (and the majority of beverages that contain artificial sweeteners) relies on aspartame, which has been suggested to pose health concerns. Aspartame is one of the most intensively scrutinized food additives. Coca-Cola has now released Diet Coke sweetened with sucralose (under the brand name Splenda), although it is not as common. The sodium benzoate was found to break down mitochondrial DNA in living yeast cells. Research published in 2007 for the British government's Food Standards Agency suggests that sodium benzoate (E211) is linked to hyperactive behavior and decreased intelligence
The artificial sweetener Splenda was inadequately tested and is unsafe for human consumption. [SEP] American Council on Science and Health // Council] money... to help us get new sweetener booklet out." McNeil Specialty Products (now McNeil Nutritionals) owns the US marketing rights to Splenda, the branded name of the artificial sweetener sucralose; the Calorie Control Council is an industry trade association for producers of artificial sweeteners, fat substitutes, and low-calorie foods. The same memo instructs that staffers give "special attention" to "Mr. McDermott at Searle about meat money." One notable critic was Ralph Nader who said, "ACSH is a consumer front organization for its business backers. It has seized the language and style of the existing consumer organizations, but its real
The artificial sweetener Splenda was inadequately tested and is unsafe for human consumption. [SEP] Diet drink // FDA was petitioned to ban saccharin, too, as a carcinogen, but a moratorium was placed on the ban until studies were conducted. The ban was lifted in 1991, but by that time, virtually all diet soft drink production had shifted to using aspartame. Perhaps the most notable holdout is Tab, which also uses some aspartame in its formula. Recently, two other sweeteners have been used with increasing frequency: sucralose (marketed as Splenda) and acesulfame potassium ("Sunett" or "Ace K"). The K in "Ace K" represents the chemical symbol for potassium. Acesulfame potassium is usually combined with aspartame, sucralose, or saccharin
The artificial sweetener Splenda was inadequately tested and is unsafe for human consumption. [SEP] Sugar substitute // "Truth About Splenda" website was created in 2005 by The Sugar Association, an organization representing sugar beet and sugar cane farmers in the United States, to provide its view of sucralose. In December 2004, five separate false-advertising claims were filed by the Sugar Association against Splenda manufacturers Merisant and McNeil Nutritionals for claims made about Splenda related to the slogan, "Made from sugar, so it tastes like sugar". French courts ordered the slogan to no longer be used in France, while in the U.S. the case came to an undisclosed settlement during the trial. There are few safety concerns pertaining
The artificial sweetener Splenda was inadequately tested and is unsafe for human consumption. [SEP] Splenda // Since its approval by the United States government in 1998 and introduction there in 1999, sucralose has overtaken Equal in the $1.5-billion artificial sweetener market, holding a 62% market share. According to market research firm IRI, Splenda sales were $212 million in 2006 in the U.S. while Equal's totaled $48.7 million. According to a 2012 article in "The New Zealand Herald" it is "the category leader in table-top sweetener in the US". The energy content of a single-serving (1 g packet) of Splenda is 3.36 kcal, which is 31% of a single-serving (2.8 g packet) of granulated sugar (10.8 kcal).
The artificial sweetener Splenda was inadequately tested and is unsafe for human consumption. [SEP] Diet Coke // Diet Coke from fountain dispensers still contains some saccharin to extend shelf life. In 2005, under pressure from retailer Walmart (which was impressed with the popularity of Splenda sweetener), the company released a new formulation called "Diet Coke sweetened with Splenda". Sucralose and acesulfame potassium replace aspartame in this version. Early sales were weaker than anticipated; however, Coca-Cola did little advertising for the brand, investing money and advertising in Coca-Cola Zero instead. By late 2009, some distributors had stopped supplying Diet Coke sweetened with Splenda. In 2018, in an effort to be more appealing to millennials, Diet Coke began offering
Congo Ebola epidemic exceeds 1,000 cases: health ministry. [SEP] 2014 Democratic Republic of the Congo Ebola virus outbreak // suspected or likely cases. On 9 September, the WHO raised the number of cases to 62 and the death toll to 35 from possible or confirmed Ebola cases. Included in this number were 9 health-care workers with 7 deaths among them. In total, 386 contacts were listed and 239 contacts were being followed. The outbreak was still contained in Jeera county in the Boende region. As of 28 October, there had been 66 cases reported. In total, 49 deaths had been reported, including eight among health care workers. No new reported contacts were being followed and twenty days had passed
Congo Ebola epidemic exceeds 1,000 cases: health ministry. [SEP] 2017 Democratic Republic of the Congo Ebola virus outbreak // DRC Minister of Public Health, Dr Oly Ilunga Kalenga, declared that the country had passed a 42-day period with no new recorded cases, and therefore the outbreak was over. A subsequent outbreak of Ebola was declared by WHO on 8 May 2018, in the northwest Province of Équateur. The first "situation report" from the WHO on 15 May 2017 listed 19 suspected cases and 3 deaths. The first person to request treatment was a 39-year-old male. On 16 May, the WHO indicated that there had been 21 suspected cases and 3 deaths. Approximately 400 additional individuals were being monitored in
Congo Ebola epidemic exceeds 1,000 cases: health ministry. [SEP] 2018 Kivu Ebola outbreak // as "probable cases". The Uganda Ministry of Health has issued an alert for extra surveillance as the neighboring outbreak in the DRC is just away from its border. On 7 August, the DRC Ministry of Public Health indicated that the total count had climbed to almost 90 cases; two days later, on 9 August, it was nearly 100 cases. On 16 August, the United Kingdom indicated it would help with EVD diagnosis and monitoring in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. On 17 August, the WHO reported that "contacts" numbered about 1500 individuals, however there could be more in certain
Congo Ebola epidemic exceeds 1,000 cases: health ministry. [SEP] 2017 Democratic Republic of the Congo Ebola virus outbreak // 83% of simulated scenarios predict no further cases in the next 30 days." According to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, "Ebola ... is a rare and deadly disease caused by infection with one of the Ebola virus species. Ebola can cause disease in humans and nonhuman primates (monkeys, gorillas, and chimpanzees)." Ebola was first identified in 1976 near the Ebola River in the DRC. More than 11,300 people died in the 2013 to 2016 Ebola outbreak in West Africa. According to the WHO's "Global Health Observatory", the DRC's population in 2015 was 77,267,000. On 1 July 2017,
Congo Ebola epidemic exceeds 1,000 cases: health ministry. [SEP] West African Ebola virus epidemic // case numbers by a factor of up to 2.5. With this correction factor, approximately 21,000 total cases were estimated for the end of September 2014 in Liberia and Sierra Leone alone. The same report predicted that total cases, including unreported cases, could reach 1.4 million in Liberia and Sierra Leone by the end of January 2015 if no improvement in intervention or community behaviour occurred. However, at a congressional hearing on 19 November, the Director of the CDC said that the number of Ebola cases was no longer expected to exceed 1 million, moving away from the worst-case scenario that
Congo Ebola epidemic exceeds 1,000 cases: health ministry. [SEP] 2018 Kivu Ebola outbreak // that a second ETC would be needed in the area, and space was insufficient in Mangina itself to accommodate one. By mid-September, however, there had been only two additional cases in the Mandima Health Zone, and only sporadic cases were being reported in the Mabalako Health Zone. As of 10 December, the World Health Organization is reporting that the current Democratic Republic of the Congo outbreak has affected 49 healthcare workers as confirmed cases, and 15 have died due to EVD. In terms of prognosis, aside from the possible effects of post-Ebola syndrome, there is also the reality of survivors
Congo Ebola epidemic exceeds 1,000 cases: health ministry. [SEP] 2017 Democratic Republic of the Congo Ebola virus outbreak // the same region of the DRC. On 17 May, WHO said that the number of individuals being monitored had risen to about 416, while the following day, the number of confirmed and suspected cases had risen to 29. As of 24 May, 520 individuals were reported to be on the contact list to monitor their health status. Of those, 226 had completed 21 days of monitoring. As of 27 May, 30 cases had been reclassified as not Ebola-related. On 13 May 2017, Doctors Without Borders indicated that they would send a team to the most recently affected area in the
Congo Ebola epidemic exceeds 1,000 cases: health ministry. [SEP] Ebola virus epidemic in Sierra Leone // which led to the estimate that by January 2015 the number of cases in Liberia and Sierra Leone could grow to 1.4 million. On 25 September there were 1940 cases and 587 deaths officially, however, many acknowledged under-reporting and there was an increasing number of cases in Freetown (the capital of Sierra Leone). WHO estimated on 21 September that Sierra Leone's capacity to treat Ebola cases fell short by the equivalent of 532 beds. There were reports that political interference and administrative incompetence had hindered the flow of medical supplies into the country. By 2 October 2014, it was estimated
Congo Ebola epidemic exceeds 1,000 cases: health ministry. [SEP] 2014 Democratic Republic of the Congo Ebola virus outbreak // affected 315, killing 254. In 2003 there was an outbreak that affected 143 and killed 128, a death rate of 90%, the highest Ebola death rate ever recorded up to that date. The table below indicates the outbreaks that have occurred since 1976: 2014 Democratic Republic of the Congo Ebola virus outbreak In 2014, an outbreak of Ebola virus disease in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) occurred. Genome sequencing has shown that this outbreak was not related to the 2014–15 West Africa Ebola virus epidemic, but was of the same EBOV species. It began in August 2014 and
Congo Ebola epidemic exceeds 1,000 cases: health ministry. [SEP] 2014 Democratic Republic of the Congo Ebola virus outbreak // were reported, almost all centered on the Yambuku mission hospital or having close contact with other cases. A total of 318 cases and 280 deaths (an 88% fatality rate) resulted from this outbreak, which, along with an outbreak in Sudan that had begun a few weeks previously, were the first outbreaks of Ebola ever recorded. The virus responsible for the initial outbreak, named after the nearby Ebola river, was first thought to be Marburg virus but was later identified as a new type of virus related to Marburg. A second major outbreak of Ebola occurred in Kikwit in 1995; it
When U.S. President Donald Trump was asked what he'd say to people who lost family members to COVID-19, he replied, "I would say this didn't hurt anyone as much as it hurt me. [SEP] Leslie Coffelt // won't let me go walking or even cross the street on foot. I say 'they' won't, but it causes them so much anguish that I conform ... But I want no more guards killed. - Letter from Truman to his cousin, Ethel Noland, dated November 17, 1950 Coffelt's widow, Cressie E. Coffelt, was later asked by the President and the Secretary of State to go to Puerto Rico, to accept the condolences and expressions of sorrow for her husband's death from various Puerto Rican leaders and crowds. Mrs. Coffelt made a speech acknowledging that the island's people were not responsible
When U.S. President Donald Trump was asked what he'd say to people who lost family members to COVID-19, he replied, "I would say this didn't hurt anyone as much as it hurt me. [SEP] Foreign policy of Donald Trump (2015-2016) // limitations were "probably a political decision" rather than based upon military advice. Trump is in favor of sending terrorist suspects to Guantanamo Bay. Trump has said he would like to "load it up with bad dudes." In an interview, Trump stated "You have to take out their families, when you get these terrorists, you have to take out their families. ... When they say they don't care about their lives, you have to take out their families." When pressed on what "take out" meant, Trump said the United States should "wipe out their homes" and "where they came from." The
When U.S. President Donald Trump was asked what he'd say to people who lost family members to COVID-19, he replied, "I would say this didn't hurt anyone as much as it hurt me. [SEP] Donald Trump 2016 presidential campaign // she was too emotional to speak.) When Trump was asked what he had sacrificed for his country, he told Stephanopoulos, "I think I've made a lot of sacrifices. I work very, very hard. I've created thousands and thousands of jobs, tens of thousands of jobs, built great structures. I've had tremendous success. I think I've done a lot." Trump also cited his work on behalf of veterans, including helping build a Vietnam War memorial in Manhattan and raising "millions of dollars" for veterans. Trump's comments touched off a firestorm of controversy by appearing to belittle the Khans, with public officials
When U.S. President Donald Trump was asked what he'd say to people who lost family members to COVID-19, he replied, "I would say this didn't hurt anyone as much as it hurt me. [SEP] Donald Trump 2016 presidential campaign // it. I said that is a strong, powerful government that put it down with strength. And then they kept down the riot. It was a horrible thing. It doesn't mean at all I was endorsing it." At a July 5 campaign rally, Trump again raised controversy by praising Saddam Hussein for being good at killing terrorists, saying Hussein was "a really bad guy" but "you know what he did well? He killed terrorists. He did that so good. They didn't read them the rights. They didn't talk. They were terrorists. It was over." "The New York Times" said that Trump's
When U.S. President Donald Trump was asked what he'd say to people who lost family members to COVID-19, he replied, "I would say this didn't hurt anyone as much as it hurt me. [SEP] Sutherland Springs church shooting // immigrants, Trump said that this would have made "no difference". He said that stricter gun control measures might have prevented Stephen Willeford from shooting Kelley, and commented, "Instead of having 26 dead, he would've had hundreds more dead." After the shooting, Trump issued a presidential proclamation honoring the victims and ordered the United States flag at half-staff at the White House and all public and military sites until the sunset of November 9. Willeford was called a hero for what he did. Texas Governor Greg Abbott said that the shooting "will be a long, suffering mourning for those in pain".
When U.S. President Donald Trump was asked what he'd say to people who lost family members to COVID-19, he replied, "I would say this didn't hurt anyone as much as it hurt me. [SEP] Tongo Tongo ambush // response drew criticism from commentators and the press. On 17 October, during a press conference, Trump was asked about his silence by a reporter and commented on the incident. Trump responded by saying that he wrote letters to the families of the victims, but falsely accused his predecessors, specifically President Obama, of not or rarely calling the families of deceased soldiers. On 16 October, Trump called the widow of La David Johnson. Representative Frederica Wilson, who was present during the call, alleged that Trump told the widow that La David Johnson "knew what he signed up for" and only referred
When U.S. President Donald Trump was asked what he'd say to people who lost family members to COVID-19, he replied, "I would say this didn't hurt anyone as much as it hurt me. [SEP] Foreign policy of Donald Trump (2015-2016) // "it's very possible that we should use NATO" to fight ISIL. In an interview, Trump stated "You have to take out their families, when you get these terrorists, you have to take out their families. ... When they say they don't care about their lives, you have to take out their families." When pressed on what "take out" meant, Trump said the U.S. should "wipe out their homes" and "where they came from." The intentional targeting of non-combatants is a violation of the Geneva Conventions and other aspects of the international law of war. Jonathan Russell, head of policy for
When U.S. President Donald Trump was asked what he'd say to people who lost family members to COVID-19, he replied, "I would say this didn't hurt anyone as much as it hurt me. [SEP] Tongo Tongo ambush // car and I heard the full conversation". Jones-Johnson said, "President Trump did disrespect my son and my daughter and also me and my husband". On the same day, Arnold Wright said that Trump was respectful when he called with his condolences, "He talked to me about the loss of my son and how he served with honor and dignity and he just wanted to give me a call to thank me". On 23 October, Myeshia Johnson said on ABC's "Good Morning America" that Wilson's account of the call with Trump was "100 percent correct" and that the call "made [her]
When U.S. President Donald Trump was asked what he'd say to people who lost family members to COVID-19, he replied, "I would say this didn't hurt anyone as much as it hurt me. [SEP] Donald Trump Jr. // Lee Zeldin and Matt Gaetz. During his father's presidential campaign, Trump Jr. caused controversy in 2016 when he posted an image that compared refugees to Skittles, saying "If I had a bowl of skittles and I told you just three would kill you. Would you take a handful? That's our Syrian refugee problem." The makers of Skittles condemned the tweet, saying "Skittles are candy. Refugees are people. We don't feel it's an appropriate analogy." The Cato Institute reported that year that the chances that "an American would be killed in a terrorist attack committed by a refugee was 1 in
When U.S. President Donald Trump was asked what he'd say to people who lost family members to COVID-19, he replied, "I would say this didn't hurt anyone as much as it hurt me. [SEP] Donald Trump 2016 presidential campaign // and commentators from all sides of the political spectrum arguing that he should show more respect to the parents of a fallen soldier. A Fox News poll found that 69 percent of respondents who were familiar with Trump's comments, including 41 percent of Republicans, felt that Trump's response was "out of bounds". The Khan controversy, along with Trump's initial refusal to endorse Speaker of the House Paul Ryan for re-election, contributed to significant drops in Trump's poll numbers that week. Trump responded to the criticism on Twitter, stating that Khazir Khan "viciously attacked me" and tweeting: "This story is not
Blogger Says Vicks VapoRub caused a child’s death. [SEP] Vicks VapoRub // Vicks VapoRub directly onto the tracheae of ferrets caused an increase in mucus production compared to a water-based lubricant. A Penn State study showed Vicks VapoRub to be more effective than placebo petroleum rub for helping cough and congestion with regards to helping children and adults sleep. However, the study also showed that, unlike with the petroleum rub placebo, Vicks VapoRub was associated with burning sensations to the skin (28%), nose (14%) and eyes (16%), with 5% of study participants reporting redness and rash when using the product. The study's first author is a paid consultant for Procter & Gamble,
Blogger Says Vicks VapoRub caused a child’s death. [SEP] Christina Marie Riggs // Christina Marie Riggs Riggs' children were killed in their beds at the family's Sherwood, Arkansas, home. The plan involved giving the children undiluted potassium chloride just after giving them amitriptyline to sedate them. However, the potassium chloride was not diluted properly and it burned her son's veins, causing Justin terrible pain but not death. She eventually smothered him when the injection was ineffective. She then smothered her daughter Shelby, without injecting her, after seeing the pain that the drug caused Justin. She laid the children on her bed, covered them with a blanket, and wrote suicide notes. She then attempted
Blogger Says Vicks VapoRub caused a child’s death. [SEP] Vicks VapoRub // at first calling it Richardson's Croup and Pneumonia Cure Salve, later changing the name to Vicks VapoRub. It was named after Richard's brother-in-law, Joshua Vick, a physician who had arranged for Richardson to have access to a laboratory to create the product. Richardson began selling it in 1905. VapoRub can be inhaled with hot steam. Since VapoRub ointment is an oil-based medication, it should not be used under or inside the nose or inside the mouth, and it should not be swallowed. Any oil-based product can get into the lungs if used improperly. In pre-clinical animal studies, the application of
Blogger Says Vicks VapoRub caused a child’s death. [SEP] Vicks // the presidency of the company in 1919 upon his father's death. The flu epidemic of 1918 increased sales of VapoRub from $900,000 to $2.9 million in just one year. In 1948, Edward Mabry became president of Vicks (the first outside the Richardson family), then known as the Vick Chemical Company. In November 1967, Dale R. Leonard began a career with the Vicks Manufacturing Company, Hatboro, Pennsylvania. In 1985, it was sold to Procter & Gamble and Procter & Gamble has since marketed the product as "The only thing more powerful than a mother's touch." The company archives (including related personal
Blogger Says Vicks VapoRub caused a child’s death. [SEP] Lunsford Richardson // He sold the 21 Vicks products as well as other drugs. In 1905 he sold the wholesale drug company and founded "Vicks Family Remedies Company", which became Richardson-Merrell Inc, and later Richardson Vicks Inc. Initially, Vicks struggled to sell outside the Greensboro area until Lunsford's son, H. Smith, decided to concentrate only on the renamed VapoRub, the one unique and distinctive product of the 21. Lunsford was active in Church activities (as elder to First Presbyterian). An editorial in the "Greensboro Daily News" August 22, 1919 said, "he never passed anyone on the street, young or old, black or white,
Blogger Says Vicks VapoRub caused a child’s death. [SEP] Vicks VapoRub // known as Vicks. VapoRub is also manufactured and packaged in India and Mexico. In German-speaking countries (apart from Switzerland), it is sold under the name "Wick VapoRub". VapoRub continues to be Vicks's flagship product internationally, and the Vicks brand name is often used synonymously with the VapoRub product. According to Joe Schwarcz, the product can be traced to Jules Bengue, a French pharmacist, who created Ben-Gay, a menthol-based treatment for arthritis, gout and neuralgia. Lunsford Richardson, a pharmacist in Selma, North Carolina, sold Ben-Gay and heard from his customers that it cleared their sinuses. He blended menthol into petroleum jelly,
Blogger Says Vicks VapoRub caused a child’s death. [SEP] Vicks VapoRub // Vicks VapoRub Vicks VapoRub ointment is a mentholated topical ointment, part of the Vicks brand of over-the-counter medications owned by the American pharmaceutical company Procter & Gamble. VapoRub is intended for use on the chest, back and throat for cough suppression or on muscles and joints for minor aches and pains. It has also been used to treat mosquito bites. Users of VapoRub often apply it immediately before sleep. First sold in 1905, VapoRub was originally manufactured by the family-owned company Richardson-Vicks, Inc., based in Greensboro, North Carolina. Richardson-Vicks was sold to Procter & Gamble in 1985 and is now
Blogger Says Vicks VapoRub caused a child’s death. [SEP] Prosecution of Rodricus Crawford // bruises indicated child abuse. During the autopsy Traylor also noticed signs of pneumonia in the infant's lungs and that he had sepsis, but did not consider it serious enough to cause death. Based upon Traylor's conclusions, chief assistant district attorney Dale Cox charged Crawford with homicide, and asked for the death penalty. The scientific validity of Traylor's conclusions was questioned before, during, and after the trial. Dr. James Traylor, Jr., a pathologist from the University Health Center at Louisiana State University, performed the autopsy. He acknowledged that the autopsy revealed that the infant had sepsis, which can be fatal, and
Blogger Says Vicks VapoRub caused a child’s death. [SEP] Prosecution of Rodricus Crawford // bilateral bronchial pneumonia, but said this was not sufficient to cause death. He claimed that bruises were a result of abuse and the infant Roderius was smothered. The Caddo Parish Coroner, Dr. Thoma, also "said the boy's broncho-pneumonia 'was not significant enough to have killed the child' and had nothing to do with his death." "Traylor said that his finding of suffocation was based entirely on the bruises on Roderius's lips, but he never sampled the tissue to date the injury, a basic test that would have revealed whether the bruises came from the earlier fall in the bathroom, an
Blogger Says Vicks VapoRub caused a child’s death. [SEP] Martha Ann Johnson // his nap. He was rushed to the hospital, where he was pronounced dead. The cause of death was determined to be sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS). On November 30, 1980, Johnson claimed her three-month-old daughter Tabitha Jenelle Bowen was blue when she went to wake her up from a nap. Paramedics were unable to revive Tabitha, and her death was also attributed to SIDS. In January 1981, 31-month-old Earl Wayne Bowen was found with a package of rat poison. He was treated and release from the hospital, after which his parents claimed he began to have seizures. On February 12,
THC will be removed from drug-test screenings “starting on August 30th.” [SEP] Drug test // for up to 12 months. Currently, most entities that use hair testing have prescribed consequences for individuals removing hair to avoid a hair drug test. The claim that a hair test cannot be tampered with has been shown to be debatable. One study has shown that THC does not readily deposit inside epithelial cells so it is possible for cosmetic and other forms of adulteration to reduce the amount of testable cannabinoids within a hair sample. The results of federally mandating drug testing were similar to the effects of simply extending to the trucking industry the right to perform drug
THC will be removed from drug-test screenings “starting on August 30th.” [SEP] Removal of cannabis from Schedule I of the Controlled Substances Act // Initiative 502, Washington is one of the first two states to legalize the recreational use of marijuana for individuals over the age of 21. Gary Storck sent a letter to the Controlled Substances board in August 2011 requesting procedures to file a petition, which is discussed at the September 2011 Controlled Substances Board Meeting. The Wisconsin Controlled Substances board has authority to reschedule cannabis pursuant to the rule-making procedures of ch. 227. Drafters plan to submit a petition to the Controlled Substances Board in early 2012. Federal government: Advocacy groups: Removal of cannabis from Schedule I of the Controlled Substances
THC will be removed from drug-test screenings “starting on August 30th.” [SEP] Urban legends about drugs // fat cells, leading to a low-grade haze long after the primary high is gone. This myth is based primarily on anecdotal evidence and the known fact that urine drug tests remain positive for at least several days after using, and longer for regular users. The tests however measure non-psychoactive metabolites, not active THC. And the blood levels of THC generally fall well below the psychoactive threshold within 2–4 hours of smoking (4–8 hours after oral use). A cannabis equivalent of a hangover may occur the morning after taking high doses, but even that ends much sooner than the legend suggests.
THC will be removed from drug-test screenings “starting on August 30th.” [SEP] Cannabis and impaired driving // to legalize cannabis, "any THC detectable in the body will deem a motorist impaired to drive". Reporting has indicated that blood tests would be utilized. Canadian draft regulations proposed in 2017 (Bill C-46) had summary conviction offences starting at 2 nanograms per milliliter. At the federal level, the United States Department of Transportation regulates public transportation (e.g. pilots, bus drivers, and train operators) and commercial truckers. 49 CFR Part 199 and 49 CFR Part 40 set maximum urine concentration levels of THC-A as the threshold for impairment for regulated transportation occupations. As of January 1, 2018, the THC-A testing cutoffs
THC will be removed from drug-test screenings “starting on August 30th.” [SEP] Cannabis drug testing // days up to 10 days according to Redwood Laboratories; heavy users can produce positive tests for 1–3 months after ceasing cannabis use. The length of time varies greatly according to metabolism, quantity, and frequency of use. Marijuana use can be detected up to 3–5 days after exposure for infrequent users; for heavy users: 1–15 days; for chronic users and/or users with high body fat: 1–30 days Under the typical 50 ng/mL cutoff for THC in the United States, an occasional or on-off user would be very unlikely to test positive beyond 3–4 days since the last use, and a chronic
THC will be removed from drug-test screenings “starting on August 30th.” [SEP] Cannabis drug testing // user would be unlikely to test positive much beyond 7 days. Using a more sensitive cutoff of 20 ng/mL (less common but still used by some labs), the most likely maximum times are 7 days and 21 days, respectively. In extraordinary circumstances of extended marijuana use, detection times of more than 30 days are possible in some individuals at the 20 ng/mL cutoff. However, every individual is different, and detection times can vary due to metabolism or other factors. It also depends on whether actual THC or THC metabolites are being tested for, the latter having a much longer detection
THC will be removed from drug-test screenings “starting on August 30th.” [SEP] Removal of cannabis from Schedule I of the Controlled Substances Act // rescheduled to allow prescription under schedule III. A second petition, based on claims related to clinical studies, was denied in 2001. The most recent rescheduling petition filed by medical cannabis advocates was in 2002, but it was denied by the DEA in July 2011. Subsequently, medical cannabis advocacy group Americans for Safe Access filed an appeal, "Americans for Safe Access v. Drug Enforcement Administration" in January 2012 with the District of Columbia Circuit, which was heard on 16 October 2012 and denied on 22 January 2013. As of August 2018, 30 states and Washington, D.C. have legalized the use of
THC will be removed from drug-test screenings “starting on August 30th.” [SEP] Occupational health concerns of cannabis use // invasive blood testing for compounds, under the 4th Amendment of the US constitution. Variability in study designs, ethical dilemma of safety and productivity, work type and drug metabolism in users. When smoked, blood levels of THC immediately rise and are distributed primarily in the lungs and brain. •THC is metabolized to the transient psychoactive substance THC-OH, which is finally converted to THC-COOH, the physiologically inactive metabolite The immediate euphoria and subsequent impairment from THC-OH, as suggested by older studies may last about 6 hours, with some limited studies showing impairment lasting as long as 24 to 48 hours Specific studies
THC will be removed from drug-test screenings “starting on August 30th.” [SEP] Removal of cannabis from Schedule I of the Controlled Substances Act // I status. The dispute is based on differing views on both how the Act should be interpreted and what kinds of scientific evidence are most relevant to the rescheduling decision. The Act provides a process for rescheduling controlled substances by petitioning the Drug Enforcement Administration. The first petition under this process was filed in 1972 to allow cannabis to be legally prescribed by physicians. The petition was ultimately denied after 22 years of court challenges, but a synthetic pill form of cannabis's psychoactive ingredient, THC, was rescheduled in 1986 to allow prescription under schedule II. In 1999, it was again
THC will be removed from drug-test screenings “starting on August 30th.” [SEP] Removal of cannabis from Schedule I of the Controlled Substances Act // October 9, 2002, the Coalition for Rescheduling Cannabis filed another petition. The new organization consisted of medical cannabis patients and other petitioners who would be more directly affected by the DEA's decision. On April 3, 2003, the DEA accepted the filing of that petition. According to Jon Gettman, "In accepting the petition the DEA has acknowledged that the Coalition has established a legally significant argument in support of the recognition of the accepted medical use of cannabis in the United States." In a footnote to the majority decision in "Gonzales v. Raich", Justice John Paul Stevens said that if the
Utah governor criticizes federal marijuana reform inaction. [SEP] The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints // opposed storage of nuclear waste in Utah, and supported the Utah Compact. It also opposed a ballot initiative legalizing medicinal marijuana in Utah, but supports a possible alternative to it. Jack N. Gerard, a general authority who serves as executive director of the church's Public Affairs Department stated, "The Church does not object to the medicinal use of marijuana, if doctor-prescribed, in dosage form, through a licensed pharmacy." Thirteen persons identified as members of the LDS Church are serving in the 115th United States Congress. Utah's governor, Gary Herbert, is also a church member. Church member Mitt Romney was the
Utah governor criticizes federal marijuana reform inaction. [SEP] Cannabis in Utah // as part of a larger anti-drug legislation based on earlier California law, rather than as a response to any cannabis situation in Utah. In March 2014, House Bill 105 was signed by Governor Gary Herbert, legalizing possession and use of low-THC CBD oil by registered patients with a physician's recommendation and intractable epilepsy. However, the bill included no provision for patients to legally acquire the oil. Senate Bill 259 was a proposed by Senator Mark B. Madsen (Republican - Saratoga Springs) with eight working days left in the legislative session. Under the bill, those with AIDS, Alzheimer's disease, amyotrophic lateral
Utah governor criticizes federal marijuana reform inaction. [SEP] Gary Herbert // arguing that the Federal government has gradually taken over duties that are better served by state governments: Herbert has openly opposed the legalization of medical marijuana in fear that it would lead to recreational use. He did, however, sign the passage of HB195 and HB197, which allows people who have an estimated six months or less left to live to have access to marijuana. Herbert supported and signed the Free-Range Parenting bill for Utah in March 2018. After the implementation of the law, in May 2018, Utah became the first state in America to legalize the Free-Range Parenting. Merit gave
Utah governor criticizes federal marijuana reform inaction. [SEP] Mark B. Madsen // his bill. Still, Madsen, who is Mormon, continued to support his bill because polls show most Utah residents support the proposed law. "It would be immoral to back down," he said. After making 7 amendments to the bill, the LDS Church acknowledged that the changes were substantial. The bill, S.B. 73, passed out of the Senate, but died in the House Health and Human Services Committee. Neither of the marijuana bills passed during the 2016 Session. Mark B. Madsen Mark Benson Madsen (born May 8, 1963) is an American politician and attorney from Utah. A Libertarian, he is a former
Utah governor criticizes federal marijuana reform inaction. [SEP] Cannabis in Utah // 6, 2018, The Utah Medical Cannabis act (as ballot Proposition 2) passed. Provisions must be set by the state for dispensaries to open by January 2021. On December 3, 2018, the Utah Legislature passed HB3001, amending the Utah Medical Cannabis Act as passed through Proposition 2. The Governor signed HB3001 into law later the same day, causing it to go into immediate effect. In April 2016, police visited the home of Democratic gubernatorial candidate Mike Weinholtz, and seized medical marijuana belonging to his wife Donna. This occurred days before Weinholtz's acceptance of his party's nomination. Local authorities opted to pursue
Utah governor criticizes federal marijuana reform inaction. [SEP] Charlotte's web (cannabis) // where "even some staunch opponents of medical marijuana now are willing to make an exception" to allow the marijuana extract for medical treatment. In Utah, Rep. Gage Froerer, R-Huntsville, said in October 2013: "Nothing in federal or state law prohibits the sale or use of hemp products." He pledged to consult with the Utah Substance Abuse Authority, saying: "We need to take a strong look at this and make sure that we as a legislature and we as citizens understand really what this is and what it's not." In November 2013, he said he would address "three components in sponsoring
Utah governor criticizes federal marijuana reform inaction. [SEP] Utah Medical Cannabis Act initiative // Institute. Governor Gary Herbert stated on March 29 that he would "actively oppose" the initiative. The Utah Medical Association urged voters who signed the petition to call county clerks to have their names removed. After initially "repeatedly declin[ing] to weigh in" with media on its position, the LDS Church issued a statement on April 10 endorsing the Utah Medical Association's position and opposing the initiative. Utah Medical Cannabis Act initiative The Utah Medical Cannabis Act is an initiative to legalize medical cannabis that qualified to appear on the November 2018 ballot in the U.S. state of Utah as Proposition 2.
Utah governor criticizes federal marijuana reform inaction. [SEP] Utah Medical Cannabis Act initiative // 78% support for the initiative. On March 26, the Lieutenant Governor's office validated 117,000 signatures on the Utah Medical Cannabis Act initiative, enough for it to get on the November ballot. On May 29, the Lieutenant Governor announced that over 153,000 signatures had been validated, and the initiative would still be appearing on the November ballot, despite a contentious effort by initiative opponents to have some names removed. Some groups and individuals have made their position on the inititiative known. The sponsor, Utah Patients Coalition, was joined by Together for Responsible Use and Cannabis Education (TRUCE) Utah and by Libertas
Utah governor criticizes federal marijuana reform inaction. [SEP] Mark B. Madsen // the bill, S.B. 247S03, which passed both houses of the Utah Legislature and was signed into law, recognized John M. Browning on January 24, 2011. In 2015, Senator Madsen introduced a medical marijuana bill, S.B.259, which failed because the legislature wanted to study the issue further during the interim before acting. In 2016, Madsen once again presented a medical marijuana bill. During this session, Madsen's bill had competition. Senator Evan Vickers introduced S.B. 89, this bill was a scaled back marijuana bill. During the session his difficulties increased when the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints said it opposed
Utah governor criticizes federal marijuana reform inaction. [SEP] Cannabis in Utah // consider the bill. Finally, Senator Brian Shiozawa (Republican - Salt Lake City) would successfully pass Senate Concurrent Resolution 11. This nonbinding resolution unanimously passed the Senate and House and urges Congress to reclassify marijuana as a Schedule II drug, thereby allowing study of the drug for medicinal purposes. In February 2018, the Utah House of Representatives passed HB 195, a bill to legalize the "right to try" and grow medical marijuana plants for terminally ill patients. On March 7, the bill was passed "easily" by the state senate, and on March 21, the governor signed it into law. On November
Obamacare "will provide insurance to all non-U.S. residents, even if they are here illegally. [SEP] Barack Obama speech to joint session of Congress, September 2009 // against Wilson, on a near party-line 240-179 vote. The outburst led to media coverage about the issue. Various sources noted that the House bill denies direct benefits, such as affordability credits, to illegal immigrants. Section 246 of the bill, titled "NO FEDERAL PAYMENT FOR UNDOCUMENTED ALIENS," states: "Nothing in this subtitle shall allow Federal payments for affordability credits on behalf of individuals who are not lawfully present in the United States." The bill did, however, require some to purchase health insurance who were not explicitly restricted from the proposed Health Insurance Exchange. The Obama administration later stated that, in the
Obamacare "will provide insurance to all non-U.S. residents, even if they are here illegally. [SEP] Healthcare availability for undocumented immigrants in the United States // they use in government services over their lifetimes, and these patterns of expenditures and usage also extend to undocumented immigrants. Meanwhile, the ongoing debate and subsequent policy-decisions have important implications for the healthcare of undocumented immigrants residing in the United States. In 2010, President Barack Obama signed the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (ACA) into law. The ACA contains language that explicitly excludes undocumented immigrants from being able to purchase health insurance coverage. However, the ACA also provides additional funding for community health centers and clinics, which play an integral role in implementing provisions of the ACA and are
Obamacare "will provide insurance to all non-U.S. residents, even if they are here illegally. [SEP] Health care in the United States // many legal immigrants with various immigration statuses now are able qualify for affordable health insurance. Undocumented immigrants within the United States do not have access to government funded health insurance. Although The Affordable Care Act allows immigrants to receive insurance at a discounted rate, the same does not go for those without US citizenship. Undocumented immigrants in the US can seek medical help from community centers, or what is termed Safety Net Providers, and participate in fee for service medical assistance, but can only buy health insurance from privatized health insurers. Health care in the United States Health care in
Obamacare "will provide insurance to all non-U.S. residents, even if they are here illegally. [SEP] Economic policy of the Barack Obama administration // and who don’t have the same kind of flexibility as the federal government in dealing with fewer revenues coming in." President Obama followed with the legislation that bears his name ("Obamacare"), the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010. It was built on three related concepts, including: 1) Subsidies for low-income persons to help them purchase health insurance; 2) Guaranteed issue and community rating, meaning persons with pre-existing medical conditions could not be discriminated against; and 3) Coverage requirements, enforced via both individual and employer "mandates" with financial incentives supporting them, to ensure healthy people (with few medical bills)
Obamacare "will provide insurance to all non-U.S. residents, even if they are here illegally. [SEP] Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act // Benefits Program). ACA does not provide benefits to illegal immigrants. It explicitly denies insurance subsidies to "unauthorized (illegal) aliens". One argument against the ACA is that the insurers are leaving the marketplaces, as they cannot profitably cover the available pool of customers, which contains too many unhealthy participants relative to healthy participants. A scenario where prices rise, due to an unfavorable mix of customers from the insurer's perspective, resulting in fewer customers and fewer insurers in the marketplace, further raising prices, has been called a "death spiral." During 2017, the median number of insurers offering plans on the ACA exchanges
Obamacare "will provide insurance to all non-U.S. residents, even if they are here illegally. [SEP] Immigrant health care in the United States // prohibited from participating in federal or state health insurance exchanges, though their lawfully present children will be eligible. Regardless of citizenship status, however, PPACA’s funding for the development of new community health centers has the potential to help both legal and undocumented immigrants who lack coverage. Views on the act’s contributions to the immigrant and noncitizen population vary. Some argue that the reform has immense benefits by addressing coverage gaps and extending more benefits to naturalized citizens. Others argue that substantial disparities still exist, with an estimated 3.7 million adults remaining uninsured due to their undocumented status. Furthermore, because the
Obamacare "will provide insurance to all non-U.S. residents, even if they are here illegally. [SEP] Immigrant health care in the United States // about communication patterns, others’ perceptions of health and fatality, and traditional folk medicines. Overall, continued outreach efforts are necessary to overcome immigrant skepticism of Western technology and diagnostic methods. On March 23, 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA) was signed into law by President Barack Obama. This legislation, joined with the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, seeks to expand coverage and improve access to the health care system while simultaneously managing its costs. Among PPACA’s provisions are: the requirement that all U.S. citizens and legal residents possess health insurance; the creation of refundable tax
Obamacare "will provide insurance to all non-U.S. residents, even if they are here illegally. [SEP] Economic policy of the Barack Obama administration // uninsured, noting that taxpayers already pay over $15 billion annually to care for the uninsured. Obama cites cost as the reason so many Americans are without health insurance. Obama's health care plan includes implementing guaranteed eligibility for affordable health care for all Americans, paid for by insurance reform, reducing costs, removing patent protection for pharmaceuticals, and required employer contributions. He would provide for mandatory health care insurance for children. In July 2008 "The New York Times" reported that Senator Obama has promised to "bring down premiums by $2,500 for the typical family." His advisers have said that the $2,500 premium
Obamacare "will provide insurance to all non-U.S. residents, even if they are here illegally. [SEP] Heckler // after President Obama stated that his health care plan would not subsidize coverage for illegal immigrants during a speech he was making to a joint session of Congress. Wilson later apologized for his outburst. On 25 November 2013, Ju Hong, a 24-year-old South Korean immigrant without legal documentation, shouted at Obama to use his executive power to stop deportation of illegal immigrants. Obama said "If, in fact, I could solve all these problems without passing laws in Congress, then I would do so." "But we're also a nation of laws, that's part of our tradition," he continued. "And so the
Obamacare "will provide insurance to all non-U.S. residents, even if they are here illegally. [SEP] Expatriate Health Coverage Clarification Act of 2014 // already have special, high-quality health care plans designed to meet their unique needs as expatriates. Carney said that "expatriate health insurance plans offer high-end, robust coverage to executives and others working outside their home country, giving them access to a global network of health care providers." Carney indicated that requiring American expatriate health care providers to meet the tax and reporting requirements of the Affordable Care Act would put them at an unfair competitive disadvantage in comparison to foreign companies offering similar health care plans. President Barack Obama's administration already temporarily addressed this issue by exempting through 2017 some expatriate
Post-war Liberians are demanding better mental health care. [SEP] Health in Liberia // However, in April 2016 it was reported that there was a fatality that tested positively to the Ebola virus and by 4 April, 84 people were under observation after two confirmed cases in their region (Monrovia). A considerable amount of the population suffers from mental illnesses or were mentally or physically traumatized, due to 14 years of intense civil conflict. A study by the American Medical Association (AMA) in 2008 had showed that a staggering 40% of adults had shown symptoms of major depressive disorders. 44% of adults also had symptoms of PTSD, or post-traumatic stress disorder. There was only
Post-war Liberians are demanding better mental health care. [SEP] Health in Liberia // one psychiatrist in the country at the time. It is impossible for 1 psychiatrist to be able to tend to over 1 million victims. In addition, E. S. Grant Mental Health Hospital was the only hospital for patients with mental illness. The hospital only had 80 beds, which left almost all those with traumatization unattended for. HIV/AIDS is one of the biggest diseases that has affected and is affecting Liberia to date. At any given time 33,000 people are living with HIV in Liberia of whom nearly 60% are female. Due to Liberia's incapability to treat this disease only about
Post-war Liberians are demanding better mental health care. [SEP] Mental health in Southeast Africa // resources . In Southeast Africa many people have developed post-traumatic stress disorder relating to genocide, civil war, tribal clashes, and refugee situations. Particularly in Rwanda and Uganda, post-traumatic stress disorder affects a significant number of the population, due to recent conflict, genocide, and crimes against humanity. Mental health in Southeast Africa Mental health in Southeast Africa is a concern, where mental illness is prevalent. Mental health issues in Africa are often viewed as the "silent crisis" since they are often given lower priority in a region of Africa where international aid is focused on communicable diseases and malnutrition. Each country
Post-war Liberians are demanding better mental health care. [SEP] Mental health in Southeast Africa // June 23, 2011 to the Kenyan National Commission of Human Rights, stating, "Currently there is a very big gap existing between the mental health needs of Kenyans and the existing mental health services at all levels of the health care services delivery system." Although there is a lack of attention to mental health in the healthcare systems, it is a major issue in Southeast African countries. Efforts have been made in some countries to allocate funding to mental health initiatives. Uganda's policies are a prime example of a successful effort to improve mental health in Southeast Africa. In 2006–2007, after
Post-war Liberians are demanding better mental health care. [SEP] Gender inequality in Liberia // is forced into the relationship because of wartime conditions in order to feed herself or her family, to have shelter and clothing, or for protection and safety. After the Second Liberian Civil War, the International Rescue Committee reported that it had assisted almost 1,000 women and girls who had suffered gender-based violence in Montserrado County. 63% of the assaults were rapes. The IRC also surveyed Liberian women and girls between the ages of 15 and 49 in refugee camps in Sierra Leone. 74% of those surveyed reported having been subject to sexual violence. The majority of incidents were improper sexual
Post-war Liberians are demanding better mental health care. [SEP] Mental health care in the Philippines // than 50,000 military Amerasian children from Central Luzon for interventions given the traits of depression, elevated anxiety, joblessness, social isolation, substance and alcohol abuse, and housing insecurity. A study was conducted to conduct a model of mental health care that integrates mental health into primary care for displaced civilians in Mindanao. The forty-six year episodes of violence between the government and anti-government groups to civilian displacement in that community. The results showed that simple mental health approaches such as psychological first aid and brief psychotherapy can be integrated into primary health care. Brief psychotherapy sessions provided at primary level to
Post-war Liberians are demanding better mental health care. [SEP] Health in Liberia // Health in Liberia Liberia is one of the poorest countries in the world. Civil wars have killed around 250,000 people and displaced many more. The wars ended in 2003 but destroyed most of the country's healthcare facilities. Recovery proceeds but the majority of the population still live below the international poverty line. Life expectancy in Liberia is much lower than the world average. Communicable diseases are widespread, including tuberculosis, diarrhea, malaria, HIV, and Dengue. Female genital mutilation is widely practiced. Nearly a quarter of children under the age of five are malnourished and few people have access to adequate sanitation
Post-war Liberians are demanding better mental health care. [SEP] Mental health in Southeast Africa // health policies in place, were created prior to 1990, and are in dire need of updating. Uganda had achieved great success with their new mental health policies and is working in close cooperation with the WHO to finalize their health-care policy. The WHO is working to move other countries' mental health policies forward. The Southeast African Great Lakes region has a long-standing tribal history of traditional medicine and practices. Although some slight progress has been made with the availability of mental health resources in these areas, still many people in rural Southeast Africa utilize traditional methods to treat mental illness.
Post-war Liberians are demanding better mental health care. [SEP] Health in Liberia // when it was first submitted to lawmakers in September 2015. Opposition from several politicians in April led to the FGM provision being removed from the bill. Health in Liberia Liberia is one of the poorest countries in the world. Civil wars have killed around 250,000 people and displaced many more. The wars ended in 2003 but destroyed most of the country's healthcare facilities. Recovery proceeds but the majority of the population still live below the international poverty line. Life expectancy in Liberia is much lower than the world average. Communicable diseases are widespread, including tuberculosis, diarrhea, malaria, HIV, and Dengue.
Post-war Liberians are demanding better mental health care. [SEP] Health in Liberia // 1989 all the way until 2003. The strengthening of the health sector faced financial problems. The government used only 16.8% of the total health expenditure in the country. Liberia has heavily relied on the international community for health infrastructure and aid. International relief organizations assisted the government to rebuild health facilities and provide essential health care for its citizens. The World Health Organization (WHO) donated equipment and helped provide and assist in vaccinating the population to prevent the spreading of many communicable disease. The Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunisation (GAVI) funded 160 million US dollars to improve the health
The stimulus bill contains "$20 million for the removal of small to medium-sized fish passage barriers" and "$25 million to rehabilitate off-roading trails for ATVs. [SEP] Nashua River Wild and Scenic River Study Act // to study segments of the Nashua River in Massachusetts and New Hampshire for potential addition to the Wild and Scenic Rivers System. Based on information provided by the NPS, the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) estimates that implementing the legislation would cost about $350,000 over the next three years, assuming the availability of appropriated funds. Enacting H.R. 412 would not affect direct spending or revenues; therefore, pay-as-you-go procedures do not apply. H.R. 412 contains no intergovernmental or private-sector mandates as defined in the Unfunded Mandates Reform Act and would not affect the budgets of state, local, or tribal governments. The Nashua
The stimulus bill contains "$20 million for the removal of small to medium-sized fish passage barriers" and "$25 million to rehabilitate off-roading trails for ATVs. [SEP] Presidential transition of Barack Obama // similar stimulus bill was passed by the House of Representatives on September 26, 2008, but never approved by the Senate. Obama promised to promote a stimulus bill early in his presidency if one was not passed before his inauguration on January 20, 2009. In addition, Obama considered the request of the U.S. automotive industry for a cash infusion of $50 billion in addition to the $25 billion that had already been approved, but emphasizing that his support is "conditioned on them making significant adjustments." Obama also planned to push for a program to spend $150 billion over 10 years to
The stimulus bill contains "$20 million for the removal of small to medium-sized fish passage barriers" and "$25 million to rehabilitate off-roading trails for ATVs. [SEP] Public Access and Lands Improvement Act // concerning use of off-road vehicles at the seashore, which was filed on April 30, 2008. Based on information provided by the NPS, CBO estimates that implementing the legislation would cost about $2 million over the 2014-2019 period, assuming the availability of appropriated funds. Those costs would be incurred as management of the seashore transitioned to the Interim Strategy and the new final rule is developed. CBO estimates that enacting title V also would affect direct spending. Under the existing final rule, the NPS charges fees (which are recorded in the budget as offsetting receipts) for off-road vehicle permits. Those fees
The stimulus bill contains "$20 million for the removal of small to medium-sized fish passage barriers" and "$25 million to rehabilitate off-roading trails for ATVs. [SEP] Omnibus Public Land Management Act of 2009 // management, public safety, and public outreach training and education." Title XIII deals with miscellaneous bills, including one that funds the National Tropical Botanical Garden in Hawaii and another that increases the number of Assistant Energy Secretaries in the United States Department of Energy to eight. Title XIII also amends the Fisheries Restoration and Irrigation Mitigation Act of 2000 and the Alaska Natural Gas Pipeline Act. Title XIV, the Christopher and Dana Reeve Paralysis Act, provides $105 million over five years for coordinated paralysis research by the National Institutes of Health. Title XV grants the Smithsonian Institution $69 million for laboratory
The stimulus bill contains "$20 million for the removal of small to medium-sized fish passage barriers" and "$25 million to rehabilitate off-roading trails for ATVs. [SEP] Sportsmen’s Heritage And Recreational Enhancement Act of 2013 // UMRA for private-sector mandates ($152 million in 2014, adjusted annually for inflation). The Recreational Fishing and Hunting Heritage and Opportunities Act was introduced into the United States House of Representatives on November 21, 2013 by Rep. Robert E. Latta (R, OH-5). It was referred to several committees and subcommittees, including: United States House Committee on Natural Resources, United States House Committee on Agriculture, United States House Committee on the Judiciary, United States House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, United States House Committee on Energy and Commerce, United States House Transportation Subcommittee on Water Resources and Environment, United States House Energy
The stimulus bill contains "$20 million for the removal of small to medium-sized fish passage barriers" and "$25 million to rehabilitate off-roading trails for ATVs. [SEP] American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 // $27.2 billion Total: $14.7 billion Total: $7.6 billion Total: $10.6 billion ARRA included a protectionist 'Buy American' provision, which imposed a general requirement that any public building or public works project funded by the new stimulus package must use only iron, steel and other manufactured goods produced in the United States. A May 15, 2009, "Washington Post" article reported that the 'Buy American' provision of the stimulus package caused outrage in the Canadian business community, and that the government in Canada "retaliated" by enacting its own restrictions on trade with the U.S. On June 6, 2009, delegates at the Federation
The stimulus bill contains "$20 million for the removal of small to medium-sized fish passage barriers" and "$25 million to rehabilitate off-roading trails for ATVs. [SEP] Sportsmen’s Heritage And Recreational Enhancement Act of 2013 // would require the Secretary of the Interior to issue permits to certain hunters seeking to import polar bear remains from Canada. Based on information provided by the affected agencies, the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) estimates that implementing H.R. 3590 would have no significant net impact on the federal budget. Enacting the legislation would affect direct spending and revenues; therefore, pay-as-you-go procedures apply. However, CBO estimates that the net budgetary effects would not be significant in any year. H.R. 3590 contains no intergovernmental mandates as defined in the Unfunded Mandates Reform Act (UMRA). H.R. 3590 would impose a private-sector mandate as
The stimulus bill contains "$20 million for the removal of small to medium-sized fish passage barriers" and "$25 million to rehabilitate off-roading trails for ATVs. [SEP] Public Access and Lands Improvement Act // on the plan. Based on information from EPA, CBO estimates that implementing this legislation would cost about $1 million annually over the 2015-2019 period, subject to the availability of appropriated funds. H.R. 2954 was introduced into the United States House of Representatives on August 1, 2013 under the long title "To authorize Escambia County, Florida, to convey certain property that was formerly part of Santa Rosa Island National Monument and that was conveyed to Escambia County subject to restrictions on use and reconveyance." The bill was introduced by Rep. Jeff Miller (R, FL-1). It was referred to the United States
The stimulus bill contains "$20 million for the removal of small to medium-sized fish passage barriers" and "$25 million to rehabilitate off-roading trails for ATVs. [SEP] Great Lakes // that border the Great Lakes as well as the U.S. Congress, and was signed into law by President George W. Bush on October 3, 2008. The Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, described as "the largest investment in the Great Lakes in two decades," was funded at $475 million in the U.S. federal government's Fiscal Year 2011 budget, and $300 million in the Fiscal Year 2012 budget. Through the program a coalition of federal agencies is making grants to local and state entities for toxics cleanups, wetlands and coastline restoration projects, and invasive species-related projects. In 2006, the United States Coast Guard
The stimulus bill contains "$20 million for the removal of small to medium-sized fish passage barriers" and "$25 million to rehabilitate off-roading trails for ATVs. [SEP] Omnibus Appropriations Act, 2009 // Agriculture Department, a 10 percent increase in Amtrak subsidies, a 10 percent increase in Congress's budget, a 12 percent increase in the Department of State budget and foreign aid, and eliminated spending for the Millennium Challenge Corporation. The watchdog group Taxpayers for Common Sense identified over 8,500 earmarks totaling $7.7 billion (1.9% of the bill's total), including $22 million for the John F. Kennedy Library, dozens of grants to assist states and counties prevent the spread of methamphetamine use, and $200,000 for the removal of tattoos from gang members. The bill passed the House by a vote of 245-178 (including
Former Navy SEAL Chris Kyle, the author of “American Sniper,” shot   looters in New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina, shot two carjackers in   Texas, and punched Jesse Ventura in the face. [SEP] Chris Kyle // Chris Kyle Christopher Scott Kyle (April 8, 1974 – February 2, 2013) was a United States Navy SEAL and sniper. He served four tours in the Iraq War and was awarded several commendations for acts of heroism and meritorious service in combat. He was awarded one Silver Star Medal, four Bronze Star Medals with "V" devices, a Navy and Marine Corps Achievement Medal and numerous other unit and personal awards. Kyle was honorably discharged from the U.S. Navy in 2009 and published his bestselling autobiography, "American Sniper", in 2012. An eponymous film adaptation of Kyle's book, directed by Clint Eastwood,
Former Navy SEAL Chris Kyle, the author of “American Sniper,” shot   looters in New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina, shot two carjackers in   Texas, and punched Jesse Ventura in the face. [SEP] Chris Kyle // The Navy revised Chris Kyle's list of awards on June 14, 2016. Chris Kyle Christopher Scott Kyle (April 8, 1974 – February 2, 2013) was a United States Navy SEAL and sniper. He served four tours in the Iraq War and was awarded several commendations for acts of heroism and meritorious service in combat. He was awarded one Silver Star Medal, four Bronze Star Medals with "V" devices, a Navy and Marine Corps Achievement Medal and numerous other unit and personal awards. Kyle was honorably discharged from the U.S. Navy in 2009 and published his bestselling autobiography, "American Sniper", in
Former Navy SEAL Chris Kyle, the author of “American Sniper,” shot   looters in New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina, shot two carjackers in   Texas, and punched Jesse Ventura in the face. [SEP] American Sniper (book) // by defaming plaintiff Jesse Ventura. In the book, Kyle described blackening the eye of "Scruff Face", whom he later identified in media interviews as Jesse Ventura. The jury awarded Ventura $500,000 for defamation and $1,345,477.25 for unjust enrichment. In December 2014, attorneys for Ventura filed a separate lawsuit against HarperCollins, the parent company of the publisher, for failing to check the accuracy of the story it used in publicity. The suit alleges that the false account used in publicity had "increased sales" and generated "millions of dollars for HarperCollins." On June 13, 2016, the United States Court of Appeals for
Former Navy SEAL Chris Kyle, the author of “American Sniper,” shot   looters in New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina, shot two carjackers in   Texas, and punched Jesse Ventura in the face. [SEP] Jesse Ventura // the landing craft on D-Day." He expressed the opinion that "the UDTs and SEALs are essentially one and the same. It's why the UDT is still part of the training acronym BUD/S." On January 4, 2012, Chris Kyle, a former U.S. Navy SEAL, promoted his recently released book "American Sniper" on the Opie and Anthony Show. When Kyle was on the "Opie and Anthony Show", a listener called in and asked about how Kyle allegedly punched Ventura in a bar fight. Show host Gregg 'Opie' Hughes asked Kyle about the rumor. Kyle claimed that he punched Ventura in the face
Former Navy SEAL Chris Kyle, the author of “American Sniper,” shot   looters in New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina, shot two carjackers in   Texas, and punched Jesse Ventura in the face. [SEP] Taya Kyle // Her sister is Ashley (Studebaker) Brittell. Studebaker met Chris Kyle in 1999. They married in 2002 and later had two children. As a Navy SEAL, Chris Kyle is known as the most lethal sniper in U.S. military history. His autobiography, "American Sniper", was published on January 3, 2012. On February 2, 2013, he was shot and killed at a shooting range in Texas, making Taya a widow at age 38. Following her husband's murder, Taya has given speeches and talks addressing his service and veterans' issues at numerous venues, as well as appeared on news networks such as CNN and
Former Navy SEAL Chris Kyle, the author of “American Sniper,” shot   looters in New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina, shot two carjackers in   Texas, and punched Jesse Ventura in the face. [SEP] Chris Kyle // and moved to Midlothian, Texas, with his wife, Taya, and two children. He was president of Craft International, a tactical training company for the U.S. military and law enforcement communities. In 2012, HarperCollins released Kyle's autobiography, "American Sniper". Kyle had initially hesitated to write the book but was persuaded to move forward because other books about SEALs were underway. In his book, Kyle wrote bluntly of his experiences. Of the battle for control of Ramadi he says: "Force moved that battle. We killed the bad guys and brought the leaders to the peace table. That is how the world works."
Former Navy SEAL Chris Kyle, the author of “American Sniper,” shot   looters in New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina, shot two carjackers in   Texas, and punched Jesse Ventura in the face. [SEP] American Sniper // Editing. Growing up in Texas, Chris Kyle is taught by his father how to shoot a rifle and hunt deer. Years later, Kyle has become a ranch hand and rodeo cowboy, and returns home early, to find his girlfriend in bed with another man. After telling her to leave, he is mulling it over with his brother when he sees news coverage of the 1998 U.S. embassy bombings and decides to enlist in the Navy. He qualifies for special training and becomes a U.S. Navy SEALs sniper. Kyle meets Taya Studebaker at a bar, and the two soon marry. He
Former Navy SEAL Chris Kyle, the author of “American Sniper,” shot   looters in New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina, shot two carjackers in   Texas, and punched Jesse Ventura in the face. [SEP] American Sniper (book) // making it one of the best-selling books of 2015. It landed atop all the major best-seller lists including the aforementioned "The New York Times", and "Publishers Weekly", "USA Today" and No. 2 on "Amazon". Its film adaptation directed by Clint Eastwood and featuring Bradley Cooper as Kyle was released in 2014. "American Sniper" tells the story of Chris Kyle, a Navy SEAL who completed four tours in Iraq from 1999–2009. The book describes Kyle's upbringing in Odessa, Texas, Navy SEAL training, and combat experiences in Iraq. Kyle describes his role in the battle for control of Ramadi, events that led
Former Navy SEAL Chris Kyle, the author of “American Sniper,” shot   looters in New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina, shot two carjackers in   Texas, and punched Jesse Ventura in the face. [SEP] Chris Kyle // Basic Underwater Demolition/Sea, Air, Land (SEAL) training (BUD/S) at Coronado, California in 1999. Kyle graduated with class 233 in March 2001. Assigned to SEAL Team 3, sniper element, platoon "Charlie" (later "Cadillac"), within the Naval Special Warfare Command, and with four tours of duty, Kyle served in many major battles of the Iraq War. His first long-range kill shot was taken during the initial invasion when he shot a woman carrying a hand grenade approaching a group of Marines. CNN reported that the woman was cradling a toddler in her other hand. As ordered, Kyle opened fire, killing the woman
Former Navy SEAL Chris Kyle, the author of “American Sniper,” shot   looters in New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina, shot two carjackers in   Texas, and punched Jesse Ventura in the face. [SEP] Jesse Ventura // at a bar in Coronado, California which was popular with Navy SEAL personnel. According to Kyle, he did this because Ventura loudly expressed criticism of the Iraq War back in 2006 during a wake for Michael A. Monsoor, a Navy SEAL who had been killed in action in Iraq the same year, and who would posthumously receive the Medal of Honor in 2008. Kyle indicated that Ventura, who was present in San Diego to give a speech to a graduating BUD/S class, was "letting it be known he did not agree" with the war in Iraq, and was "bad-mouthing the
Viral posts claim that climate change is a "made-up catastrophe. [SEP] Global warming controversy // groups and the press. For example, Mike Hulme, director of the Tyndall Centre for Climate Research, wrote how increasing use of pejorative terms like "catastrophic", "chaotic" and "irreversible", had altered the public discourse around climate change: "This discourse is now characterised by phrases such as 'climate change is worse than we thought', that we are approaching 'irreversible tipping in the Earth's climate', and that we are 'at the point of no return'. I have found myself increasingly chastised by climate change campaigners when my public statements and lectures on climate change have not satisfied their thirst for environmental drama and
Viral posts claim that climate change is a "made-up catastrophe. [SEP] Joe Barton // "cause the temperature to go up," although a report in "Snopes" suggested that Barton was merely quoting an academic study which suggested that increased use of wind turbines might have unintended consequences for the environment, and that the claim about the linkage between increased use of wind turbines and slowing down the winds was incorrect. In 2013, when discussing the Keystone XL pipeline, he referred to the Genesis flood narrative in the Bible to argue that current climate change isn't man-made. Barton rejects the scientific consensus on climate change that climate change is real and that human activity is the
Viral posts claim that climate change is a "made-up catastrophe. [SEP] Baba Brinkman // track "What's Beef", which remixes a Notorious B.I.G. song to discuss climate change denial. "Rap Guide to Climate Chaos" summarizes the science, politics, and economics of climate change and advocates for a global carbon tax as part of the solution. In 2016, after the election of Donald Trump, Brinkman worked with Wesleyan University professor Gary Yohe, a senior contributor to the IPCC and co-recipient along with Al Gore of the 2007 Nobel Peace Prize, to produce a new song and video entitled "Erosion", summarizing data from the National Climate Assessment on the US-based physical impacts of climate change. Brinkman and
Viral posts claim that climate change is a "made-up catastrophe. [SEP] Climate Change Denial Disorder // get to make those decisions for all of us." The narrator explains the mechanism of the disorder while an illustrated video of the brain is displayed: "Climate Change Denial Disorder is a rapidly spreading disease that attacks the neurons, making it impossible to comprehend basic words." Words eventually removed from comprehension by those suffering from the disorder are said to include: "factual", "science", and "melting". Another man says to the camera that he feels global warming is "a bunch of New Age hooey garbage". He goes on to exclaim: "It's snowing right now, who cares if I'm in Southern California!"
Viral posts claim that climate change is a "made-up catastrophe. [SEP] Climate Hustle // that some holdout scientists do still make to undermine mainstream climate concerns." The "Post" challenges the validity of several of the film's claims directly, which it characterizes as "the same things they've been arguing for many years, albeit with regular touch-ups." "Ars Technica" likened the film's style to a "Gish Gallop", calling it "a fast-paced, uninterrupted delivery of superficial and false claims about climate science" which forms "an 80-minute-long list of all the climate 'skeptic' blogosphere's favorite claims." The film features a number of expert testimonies in support of its claims. According to Scott K. Johnson of "Ars Technica", those
Viral posts claim that climate change is a "made-up catastrophe. [SEP] Climate Change Denial Disorder // the prior week, commenting: "Global warming is apparently melting our brains." Biologist Mary Ellen Harte of "The Huffington Post" shared her take on several satirical pieces related to climate change, and called the film "absolutely hilarious". Ali Velez of "BuzzFeed" wrote positively of the film: "Funny Or Die nailed this satirical video about climate change deniers." Velez said of the mock criticism of scientists by individuals in the film: "Drought? Melting ice caps? Bah! What do scientists know anyway? Spoiler alert: scientists know a lot." "Daily Kos" writer Jen Hayden said: "The hilarious folks at Funny or Die have a
Viral posts claim that climate change is a "made-up catastrophe. [SEP] Straight Up (book) // few that addressed transitory, fleeting events – his book is absolutely on point in its insistence that climate change long ago ceased to be a scientific issue and, instead, is most clearly a political one." Gelbspan agrees with Romm that "a central reason that most political conservatives and libertarians deny the reality of human-induced climate change 'is that they simply cannot stand the solution. So they attack both the solution and the science.' I don't recall reading that simple truth in [traditional media,] virtually all of which treat the climate debate as though it actually had some legitimacy." He also
Viral posts claim that climate change is a "made-up catastrophe. [SEP] Climate fiction // civilization is reduced by persistent hurricane-force winds, and "The Drowned World" (1962) describes a future of melted ice-caps and rising sea-levels caused by solar radiation. In "The Burning World" (1964, later called "The Drought") his climate catastrophe is human-made, a drought due to disruption of the precipitation cycle by industrial pollution. As scientific knowledge of the effects of fossil fuel consumption and resulting increase in atmospheric CO2 concentrations entered the public and political arena as "global warming", fiction about the problems of human-induced global warming began to appear. Susan M. Gaines's "Carbon Dreams" was an early example of a literary
Viral posts claim that climate change is a "made-up catastrophe. [SEP] Fox News // agree on whether the global warming is scientific fact or fiction". In 2010, Hannity said the so-called "Climategate" – the leaking of e-mails by climate scientist that climate change skeptics claimed demonstrated scientific misconduct but which all subsequent enquiries have found no evidence of misconduct or wrongdoing – a "scandal" that "exposed global warming as a myth cooked up by alarmists." Hannity frequently invites contrarian fringe scientists and critics of climate change to his shows. Shepard Smith has drawn attention for being one of few voices on Fox News to forcefully state that climate change is real, that human activities
Viral posts claim that climate change is a "made-up catastrophe. [SEP] An Inconvenient Truth...Or Convenient Fiction? // about climate change is correct. The planet is warming; human beings are playing a substantial role in that warming," but expanded that Gore "and a lot of other people make some extreme claims about what is likely to happen in the future that are not backed up by science." In his support of global warming theories, Hayward contends he is not a "climate change denier," but simply wishes to document with evidence that Gore's claims "are based on extreme and improbable models." In their review of the film sharing the inconsistencies of actual events when compared to the predictions of
Study shows therapy improves quality of life in people who have sleep apnea. [SEP] Positive airway pressure // patients, the improvement in the quality of sleep and quality of life due to CPAP treatment will be noticed after a single night's use. Often, the patient's sleep partner also benefits from markedly improved sleep quality, due to the amelioration of the patient's loud snoring. Given that sleep apnea is a chronic health issue which commonly doesn't go away, ongoing care is usually needed to maintain CPAP therapy. Based on the study of cognitive behavioral therapy (referenced above), ongoing chronic care management is the best way to help patients continue therapy by educating them on the health risks of sleep
Study shows therapy improves quality of life in people who have sleep apnea. [SEP] Sleep apnea // death or heart disease is controversial with some reviews finding benefit and others not. This variation across studies might be driven by low rates of compliance—analyses of those who use CPAP for at least four hours a night suggests a decrease in cardiovascular events. Evidence suggests that CPAP may improve sensitivity to insulin, blood pressure, and sleepiness. Long term compliance, however, is an issue with more than half of people not appropriately using the device. Although CPAP therapy is effective in reducing apneas and less expensive than other treatments, some people find it uncomfortable. Some complain of feeling trapped, having
Study shows therapy improves quality of life in people who have sleep apnea. [SEP] Sleep apnea // own breathing to create positive airway pressure to prevent obstructed breathing. Oral pressure therapy utilizes a device that creates a vacuum in the mouth, pulling the soft palate tissue forward. It has been found useful in about 25 to 37% of people. The Wisconsin Sleep Cohort Study estimated in 1993 that roughly one in every 15 Americans was affected by at least moderate sleep apnea. It also estimated that in middle-age as many as nine percent of women and 24 percent of men were affected, undiagnosed and untreated. The costs of untreated sleep apnea reach further than just health issues.
Study shows therapy improves quality of life in people who have sleep apnea. [SEP] Sleep surgery // a lesser degree of AHI reduction, showed a 31% survival benefit when compared against those using CPAP as therapy. Children with obstructive sleep apnea typically have enlarged tonsils and adenoid tissue. Surgery on children is over 80% successful by simply performing an adenoidectomy and tonsillectomy. Those less likely to benefit from an adenotonsillectomy are obese children and those with other medical problems, such as Down Syndrome. A sub-group of children may have occult laryngomalacia, where the tissue directly above the vocal cords (epiglottis, arytenoids) collapses into the airway during sleep. These children may benefit from a supraglottoplasty to help prevent
Study shows therapy improves quality of life in people who have sleep apnea. [SEP] Clete Kushida // principal investigator of the Apnea Positive Pressure Long-term Efficacy Study (APPLES), a National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute (NHLBI)-sponsored research project measuring the effectiveness of continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) therapy for obstructive sleep apnea (OSA). The multi-site study focuses on how CPAP usage affects memory, learning, sleepiness, mood and quality of life. He also directs several other research studies, focusing on topics such as the physical features and neurocognitive changes associated with OSA, the epidemiology and treatment of restless legs syndrome/periodic limb movement disorder, primary care sleep education and training, and countermeasures for sleep loss. His most cited article,
Study shows therapy improves quality of life in people who have sleep apnea. [SEP] Sleep surgery // have not been well-received as a therapy choice since they are invasive, and the acclimation period is long. The devices have shown high success rates for therapy in studies published in "Behaviour Research and Therapy" and the "Journal of Clinical Sleep Medicine". Sleep surgery Sleep surgery is a surgery performed to treat sleep disordered breathing. Sleep disordered breathing is a spectrum of disorders that includes snoring, upper airway resistance syndrome, and obstructive sleep apnea. These surgeries are performed by surgeons trained in otolaryngology, oral maxillofacial surgery, and craniofacial surgery. Obstructive sleep apnea or sleep apnea is defined as either cessation
Study shows therapy improves quality of life in people who have sleep apnea. [SEP] Sleep apnea // per hour must occur. Treatment may include lifestyle changes, mouthpieces, breathing devices, and surgery. Lifestyle changes may include avoiding alcohol, losing weight, stopping smoking, and sleeping on one's side. Breathing devices include the use of a CPAP machine. Without treatment, sleep apnea may increase the risk of heart attack, stroke, diabetes, heart failure, irregular heartbeat, obesity, and motor vehicle collisions. OSA affects 1 to 6% of adults and 2% of children. It affects males about twice as often as females. While people at any age can be affected, it occurs most commonly among those 55 to 60 years old. Central
Study shows therapy improves quality of life in people who have sleep apnea. [SEP] Sleep apnea // people are told to avoid alcohol, sleeping pills, and other sedatives, which can relax throat muscles, contributing to the collapse of the airway at night. For moderate to severe sleep apnea, the most common treatment is the use of a continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) or automatic positive airway pressure (APAP) device. These splint the person's airway open during sleep by means of pressurized air. The person typically wears a plastic facial mask, which is connected by a flexible tube to a small bedside CPAP machine. With proper use, CPAP improves outcomes. Whether or not it decreases the risk of
Study shows therapy improves quality of life in people who have sleep apnea. [SEP] Sleeping disorders following traumatic brain injury // been proven to be effective. A prolongation of slow-wave sleep increases glymphatic clearance of metabolic waste products, which can lead to improvements of sleep disorders. Furthermore, studies showed ameliorated sleep pattern due to acupuncture of patients with TBI. Sleep apnea due to TBI can be treated through positive airway pressure, which helps with the development of a regular breathing pattern during sleep and prevents waking up. Cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia also have been shown to effectively improve sleep in TBI patients. It aims to improve sleep habits and behaviors by identifying and changing the thoughts and the behaviors that
Study shows therapy improves quality of life in people who have sleep apnea. [SEP] Upper airway resistance syndrome // their collapse. Avoiding sedatives may also help to reduce snoring. Nasal steroids may be prescribed in order to ease nasal allergies and other obstructive nasal conditions that could cause UARS. Positive airway pressure therapy is similar to that in obstructive sleep apnea and works by stenting the airway open with pressure, thus reducing the airway resistance. Use of a CPAP mask can help ease the symptoms of UARS. Therapeutic trials have shown that using a CPAP mask with pressure between four and eight centimeters of water can help to reduce the number of arousals and improve sleepiness. CPAP masks are
Some Cubans choose dose of private medicine despite price. [SEP] Healthcare in Cuba // supervise and evaluate the neighborhood and clinical health work of the family medicine offices. While preventive medical care, diagnostic tests and medication for hospitalized patients are free, some aspects of healthcare are paid for by the patient. Items which are paid by patients who can afford it are: drugs prescribed on an outpatient basis, hearing, dental, and orthopedic processes, wheelchairs and crutches. When a patient can obtain these items at state stores, prices tend to be low as these items are subsidized by the state. For patients on a low-income, these items are free of charge. Like the rest of
Some Cubans choose dose of private medicine despite price. [SEP] Healthcare in Cuba // Privatization of healthcare in Cuba is illegal and unnecessary as high quality, equal, care covered by the state is available to everyone as made necessary by Cuba's constitution. Cuba's doctor to patient ratio grew significantly in the latter half of the 20th century, from 9.2 doctors per 10,000 inhabitants in 1958, to 58.2 per 10,000 in 1999. In the 1960s the government implemented a program of almost universal vaccinations. This helped eradicate many contagious diseases including polio, tetanus, diphtheria and rubella, though some diseases increased during the period of economic hardship of the 1990s, such as tuberculosis, hepatitis and chicken
Some Cubans choose dose of private medicine despite price. [SEP] Healthcare in Cuba // such as aspirin and antibiotics are conspicuously absent or only available on the black market. Surgeons lack basic supplies and must re-use latex gloves. Patients must buy their own sutures on the black market and provide bedsheets and food for extended hospital stays. The Cuban government blames the shortages on the embargo and states that those with more severe chronic diseases receive medicines. However, other sources suggest that those with such diseases lack medicines. It is also suggested that in some cases the local non-dollar stocks have been shipped abroad. The U.S. State Department has argued that during the economic
Some Cubans choose dose of private medicine despite price. [SEP] Healthcare in Cuba // to $60. Such "under-the-table payments" reportedly date back to the 1970s, when Cubans used gifts and tips in order to get health benefits. The harsh economic downturn known as the "Special Period" in the 1990s aggravated these payments. The advent of the "dollar economy", a legalization of the dollar which led some Cubans to receive dollars from their relatives outside of Cuba, meant that a class of Cubans were able to obtain medications and health services that would not be available to them otherwise. Healthcare in Cuba The Cuban government operates a national health system and assumes fiscal and administrative
Some Cubans choose dose of private medicine despite price. [SEP] Healthcare in Cuba // depression "the Cuban government made a deliberate decision to continue to spend money to maintain its military and internal security apparatus at the expense of other priorities – including healthcare." However, one study found that "the available data show that the fall in Cuba's medicine imports in the '90s didn't correspond to a significant lowering of the government's healthcare spending. Budgetary support for peso-denominated spending – i.e., labor costs of medical professionals, operational costs of hospitals and clinics – has remained strong. Attempts to blame medical shortages in Cuba on resource misallocation are thus misguided, or at least wrongly nuanced."
Some Cubans choose dose of private medicine despite price. [SEP] Healthcare in Cuba // Cuba often advertises medical services it is unable to provide. Others makes similar claims, also stating that senior Communist party and military officials can access this higher quality system free of charge. In 2005, an account written by Cuban exile and critic of Fidel Castro, Carlos Wotzkow, appeared showing apparent unsanitary and unsafe conditions in the "Clínico Quirúrgico" of Havana; the article claims that health care for Cubans occurs in worse conditions in the rest of the country. An article in Canadian newspaper "National Post", based upon interviews of Cubans, finds that in reality even the most common pharmaceutical items,
Some Cubans choose dose of private medicine despite price. [SEP] Healthcare in Cuba // Healthcare in Cuba The Cuban government operates a national health system and assumes fiscal and administrative responsibility for the health care of all its citizens. There are no private hospitals or clinics as all health services are government-run. The present Minister for Public Health is Roberto Morales Ojeda. Like the rest of the Cuban economy, Cuban medical care suffered following the end of Soviet subsidies in 1991 and the stepping up of the United States embargo against Cuba at this time also had an effect. Cuba has historically – both before and during Communist rule – performed better than other
Some Cubans choose dose of private medicine despite price. [SEP] Healthcare in Cuba // that the central revolutionary objective of free, quality medical care for all has been eroded by Cuba's need for foreign currency. Molina says that following the economic collapse known in Cuba as the Special Period, the Cuban Government established mechanisms designed to turn the medical system into a profit-making enterprise. This creates an enormous disparity in the quality of healthcare services between foreigners and Cubans leading to a form of tourist apartheid. In 1998 she said that foreign patients were routinely inadequately or falsely informed about their medical conditions to increase their medical bills or to hide the fact that
Some Cubans choose dose of private medicine despite price. [SEP] Health systems by country // charge fees in treating elective treatment for patients from abroad, but tourists who fall ill are treated free in Cuban hospitals. Cuba attracts patients mostly from Latin America and Europe by offering care of comparable quality to a developed nation but at much lower prices. Cuba's own health indicators are the best in Latin America and surpass those of the US in some respects (infant mortality rates, underweight babies, HIV infection, immunisation rates, doctor per population rates). (UNDP 2006: Tables 6,7,9,10) In 2005, Cuba spent 7.6% of GDP on health care, or US$310 per capita. Of that, approximately 91% was
Some Cubans choose dose of private medicine despite price. [SEP] Healthcare in Cuba // the Cuban economy, numerous reports have shown that Cuban medical care has long suffered from severe material shortages caused by the US embargo. The ending of Soviet subsidies in the early 1990s has also affected it. Economic constraints and restrictions on medicines have forced the Cuban health system to incorporate alternative and herbal solutions to healthcare issues, which can be more accessible and affordable to a broader population In the 1990s, the Cuban Ministry of Public Health officially recognized natural and traditional medicine and began its integration into the already well established Western medicine model. Cuba had 128 physicians and
The Chilean "privatization scheme" that Sharron Angle supports "has resulted in hidden fees, fewer benefits, and millions of people with no coverage. [SEP] Sharron Angle // the privatization of Medicare. She voted against fluoridating drinking water. Angle opposes abortion, even in cases of rape and incest, saying that it is against God's "plan". On several occasions, she has introduced legislation which would have required doctors to tell women that abortion is linked to an increased risk of breast cancer, a faulty hypothesis promoted by anti-abortion activists but dismissed by the medical community. During the 2010 campaign, Angle told the "Las Vegas Review-Journal" that, as a state legislator, she had sponsored a bill to remove the requirement that health insurers cover mammograms and colonoscopies. In a debate
The Chilean "privatization scheme" that Sharron Angle supports "has resulted in hidden fees, fewer benefits, and millions of people with no coverage. [SEP] Sharron Angle // among the Republican candidates, she repeated her support for lifting "mandates" on insurance companies. Angle has said that the Social Security system should be "transitioned out". In May 2010, the "Las Vegas Review-Journal" reported that Angle had claimed in a radio interview on KNPR that "[her] grandfather wouldn't even take his Social Security check because he said he was not up for welfare." The following month the Reid campaign reacted with a television ad stating that "Sharron Angle would end Medicare and Social Security. This is crazy." Angle has spoken favorably of the program in Chile, where current beneficiaries of
The Chilean "privatization scheme" that Sharron Angle supports "has resulted in hidden fees, fewer benefits, and millions of people with no coverage. [SEP] Sharron Angle // the Nevada State Legislature, she led efforts to reduce Nevada's high gas tax, which was the second highest in the nation. She would also have supported the three coal-fired plants in Ely. After President Obama secured agreement by BP to commit $20 billion to compensate victims of the Deepwater Horizon oil spill, Angle denounced the arrangement, calling it a "slush fund". When she was criticized for her comment, however, she retracted the term "slush fund" and said that BP should pay for the consequences of the spill. Sharron Angle has cited the Second Amendment to reassert the right to keep
The Chilean "privatization scheme" that Sharron Angle supports "has resulted in hidden fees, fewer benefits, and millions of people with no coverage. [SEP] Sharron Angle // the public retirement system were allowed to continue but all others were compelled to pay into a private system instead. Angle favors a comprehensive audit of the Federal Reserve, eliminating the complete Internal Revenue Service code and abolishing Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae. Angle has stated that she opposes legalizing marijuana and has stated that she feels the same about alcohol. When her spokesman, Jerry Stacy, was asked to clarify Angle's statement he responded that she doesn't want to bring back Prohibition, saying "Sharron doesn't want to make alcohol illegal," and noting that she has never introduced legislation along those
The Chilean "privatization scheme" that Sharron Angle supports "has resulted in hidden fees, fewer benefits, and millions of people with no coverage. [SEP] José Piñera // an integral part of the so-called "AFP system" (the AFPs are the private companies that manage the PRAs on workers' behalf); and, b) it allowed workers to opt out from the government health insurance system with all their mandatory contribution (another 7% of wages), as long as they were willing and able to buy with that money a minimum health insurance plan in what became the "ISAPRE system" (ISAPREs are private companies that offer diverse health insurance plans). The above-mentioned reform had a major impact on Chile's economy and society. By February 2011, 8.8 million individuals had a PRA. Because
The Chilean "privatization scheme" that Sharron Angle supports "has resulted in hidden fees, fewer benefits, and millions of people with no coverage. [SEP] Healthcare in Chile // insurance companies called Instituciones de Salud Previsional (ISAPREs) for care by private providers at private clinics and private hospitals, which cost up to twice as much. Starting in 1990, the civilian government increased public funding, especially for hospitals, without further reform for more than a decade. In the early 2000s, President Ricardo Lagos strengthened the public-sector. Private health care became more and more expensive and as of 2015 covers only 19% of the population, down from a peak of 26%. The so-called "Explicit Guarantee System (Acceso Universal con Garantías Explícitas, or AUGE), developed several guarantees for 56 health problems for
The Chilean "privatization scheme" that Sharron Angle supports "has resulted in hidden fees, fewer benefits, and millions of people with no coverage. [SEP] Sharron Angle // "strange foray into Scientology", a reference to her 2003 proposal to study the program implemented in Mexico and New Mexico. Angle responded, "This program had a recidivism rate of less than 10 percent. They aren't massages. … it was more of a karate chop. The sauna was a sweat box. When you're in there with 30 guys, it's not exactly a sauna." Angle has repeatedly denied "the rumor that she's a Scientologist", stating that the controversy had been "largely distorted". Regarding these claims relating to Scientology, Angle told the "Las Vegas Review-Journal", "The way to ruin a conservative is to
The Chilean "privatization scheme" that Sharron Angle supports "has resulted in hidden fees, fewer benefits, and millions of people with no coverage. [SEP] Healthcare in Chile // the insured. It prescribed clinical guidelines and "no longer wait than preset periods for diagnosis, treatment, or follow-up", a maximum of out-of-pocket expense cap and a maximum designated waiting time, after which private providers for the services were an option. The Lagos reform had earlier succeeded to reduce mortality rates especially with communicable diseases and mortality, even myocardial infarction it did so at the expense of chronic diseases. In 2010, the Constitutional Court of Chile declared the private insurance system's premiums adjustments for health risk by age and gender as discriminatory, disallowed it, but did not suggest an alternative mechanism.
The Chilean "privatization scheme" that Sharron Angle supports "has resulted in hidden fees, fewer benefits, and millions of people with no coverage. [SEP] José Piñera // the world to privatize Social Security. Piñera played the key role. Privatizing the pension system would have been enough to earn Piñera his place in history, but he also oversaw the privatization of health care". Some analysts and journalists have criticized the Chilean Pension system, pointing out, for example, that it did not require the self-employed to contribute or arguing that it imposed excessive administrative costs. From a different angle, a paper published by the Institute of Economic Affairs showed that the Chilean model had indeed some shortcomings. But surprisingly to some, it argued that these were a result of
The Chilean "privatization scheme" that Sharron Angle supports "has resulted in hidden fees, fewer benefits, and millions of people with no coverage. [SEP] Sharron Angle // to define marriage as between one man and one woman. She believes that households in which only one spouse works outside the home is the best way to raise a family. Angle opposes abortion, including in cases of rape or incest. In a June 2010 radio interview, broadcast statewide in Nevada, Angle stated that she had counseled young girls in "very at risk, difficult pregnancies" to consider other alternatives, by which they had been able to make "a lemon situation into lemonade." Angle does not believe that the United States Constitution mandates the separation of church and state. Angle favors
In Africa, a child dies every minute because of (malaria). [SEP] Imagine No Malaria // od deaths caused by Malaria in African countries. Bishop Thomas Bickerton is the chairperson of the executive committee for Imagine No Malaria. He stated, "Today there's a 3-year-old who's going to be bitten by a tiny bug, and, in 48 hours, she is going to die. She's the reason I do what I do. To make the world a healthy place for every child has everything to do with what Mr. Wesley intended us to do." Imagine No Malaria is a fundraising and advocacy campaign to support a comprehensive, integrated anti-malaria strategy in Africa. This program is focused on delivering
In Africa, a child dies every minute because of (malaria). [SEP] Diseases of poverty // of cures and recent advances in medicine have led to only three diseases being considered neglected diseases, namely, African trypanosomiasis, Chagas disease and Leishmaniasis. Africa accounts for a majority of malaria infections and deaths worldwide. Over 80 percent of the 300 to 500 million malaria infections occurring annually worldwide are in Africa. Each year, about one million children under the age of five die from malaria. Children who are poor, have mothers with little to no education, and live in rural areas are more susceptible to malaria and more likely to die from it. Malaria is directly related to the
In Africa, a child dies every minute because of (malaria). [SEP] Human rights and development // access them by addressing obstacles like discrimination. The target here is the reduction of two-thirds of the mortality rate of children under five by 2015 comparable to the "Right to life". Around 17,000 fewer children are dying each day, yet 6.6 million children under five died in 2012, mostly from preventable diseases. In sub-Saharan Africa, one in ten children dies before the age five. Sub-Saharan Africa and Southern Asia accounted for 5.3 million 81% of the 6.6 million deaths The main killers are pneumonia, prenatal and intrapartum complications, diarrhoea and malaria. The first month, particularly the first 24 hours, are
In Africa, a child dies every minute because of (malaria). [SEP] Five & Alive // among those at the greatest risk for health crisis and death. Every year, malaria infects between 350–500 million lives, leading to over a million deaths, primarily in children located on the African continent. At the same time, pneumonia has globally been the leading cause of death in children under the age of five years. All children, no matter where they are born, deserve a healthy start in life. Nearly 11 million children die before their fifth birthday and the majority of these deaths are preventable. –Ashley Judd, Five & Alive Global Ambassador Five & Alive promotes safe drinking water through
In Africa, a child dies every minute because of (malaria). [SEP] Child health in Uganda // other individuals. Malaria is one of the leading causes of death among youth. Statistics portray that Uganda has the world's highest amount of malaria cases. According to New Vision, "the malaria incidence rate is 478 cases per 1,000 people per year". About 70,000 to 100,000 people are dying from the disease and about half are children under 5 years old. Malaria is a pandemic in the country because millions of children and women are dying every year from the disease. To add to the problem many do not have access to preventative treatments and many children do not have access
In Africa, a child dies every minute because of (malaria). [SEP] Malaria // disease is estimated to have killed between 473,000 and 789,000 people, many of whom were children in Africa. Efforts at decreasing the disease in Africa since the turn of millennium have been partially effective, with rates of the disease dropping by an estimated forty percent on the continent. Malaria is presently endemic in a broad band around the equator, in areas of the Americas, many parts of Asia, and much of Africa; in Sub-Saharan Africa, 85–90% of malaria fatalities occur. An estimate for 2009 reported that countries with the highest death rate per 100,000 of population were Ivory Coast (86.15),
In Africa, a child dies every minute because of (malaria). [SEP] Tanzania // maternal mortality rate in 2013 was estimated at 410 per 100,000 live births. Prematurity and malaria were tied in 2010 as the leading cause of death in children under 5 years old. The other leading causes of death for these children were, in decreasing order, malaria, diarrhoea, HIV, and measles. Malaria in Tanzania causes death and disease and has a "huge economic impact". There were approximately 11.5 million cases of clinical malaria in 2008. In 2007–08, malaria prevalence among children aged 6 months to 5 years was highest in the Kagera Region (41.1 percent) on the western shore of Lake
In Africa, a child dies every minute because of (malaria). [SEP] Mali Health // age and Mali has the second highest birth rate in the world, making high maternal and child mortality a national crisis. In Mali, 1 and 5 children die before their 5th birthday, mostly from five treatable, preventable diseases: malaria, diarrhea, acute respiratory tract infections, measles, and malnutrition. The infant mortality rate (death before 1 year of age) is 104.3 deaths/1000 births, the second highest in the world. Only 27% of children under 5 sleep beneath insecticide-treated mosquito nets—one of the most effective ways to treat malaria—and only 34.8% of children under 5 years with fever receive treatment with any type
In Africa, a child dies every minute because of (malaria). [SEP] Malaria // associated with up to 200,000 estimated infant deaths yearly. There are about 10,000 malaria cases per year in Western Europe, and 1300–1500 in the United States. About 900 people died from the disease in Europe between 1993 and 2003. Both the global incidence of disease and resulting mortality have declined in recent years. According to the WHO and UNICEF, deaths attributable to malaria in 2015 were reduced by 60% from a 2000 estimate of 985,000, largely due to the widespread use of insecticide-treated nets and artemisinin-based combination therapies. In 2012, there were 207 million cases of malaria. That year, the
In Africa, a child dies every minute because of (malaria). [SEP] Health in Mali // around 700,000 people annually in Africa. It is caused by a one-celled parasite and is spread by mosquitoes. Because Mali is part of the meningitis belt of Africa, Mali is especially susceptible to malaria during the dry season between December and June. Among all diseases, Malaria is the primary cause of death in Mali, especially for children who are under 5 years old. The entire population of Mali is at risk of Malaria, but those in northern Mali seem to have greater rates of risk with lower immunity to infection. However, there has been a significant increase in malaria prevention
Mississippi has passed a bill granting churchgoers the right to shoot and kill citizens at will. [SEP] Mississippi Religious Freedom Restoration Act // Mississippi House of Representatives passed, with 79 ayes, and 43 nays, Senate Bill 2681. On the same day, 2014, the Mississippi Senate passed, with a 37 ayes, 14 nays, and 1 absent or not voting, SB 2681. On April 3, 2014, Governor Phil Bryant signed the bill and it went into effect on July 1, 2014. The Human Rights Campaign opposed SB 2681. Mississippi Religious Freedom Restoration Act The Mississippi Religious Freedom Restoration Act is a 2014 act that states that "government should not substantially burden religious exercise without compelling justification. The act protects religious people from legal repercussions if
Mississippi has passed a bill granting churchgoers the right to shoot and kill citizens at will. [SEP] Constitution of Mississippi // and abridge the carrying of concealed weapons. This differs from the 1868 constitution, which did not explicitly grant the state the power to restrict that right. The section states: Section 15, carried over verbatim from the 1868 constitution, forbids slavery or involuntary servitude within the state, except when done as a punishment for a crime: Section 18 discusses freedom of religion. It prohibits religious tests as a qualification for officeholders. It also contains a unique clause which states that this right shall not be construed as to exclude the use of the "Holy Bible" from any public school: Section 19
Mississippi has passed a bill granting churchgoers the right to shoot and kill citizens at will. [SEP] Constitution of Mississippi // implementing stricter and more stringent regulations restrictions on the right of firearms ownership. This was done in order to prevent African Americans from being able to bear arms for the purpose of defending themselves against the ever-growing threat of lynchings, terrorism, and extrajudicial paramilitary violence at the hands of Democrats and white supremacists, designed to prevent black voters from electing Republicans. Mississippi was no stranger to such restrictive laws; an 1817 law even forbade an African American person from being in possession of a canine. As with the sections of the 1890 constitution that disenfranchised black voters, the laws regarding
Mississippi has passed a bill granting churchgoers the right to shoot and kill citizens at will. [SEP] Religious Liberty Accommodations Act // Andrew Gipson, William Shirley, Randy Boyd, and Dan Eubanks officially introduced House Bill 1523, titled "Protecting Freedom of Conscience from Government Discrimination Act". On February 19, 2016, the Mississippi House of Representatives passed the bill, with 80 ayes, 39 nays, and 3 absent or not voting. On March 30, 2016, the Mississippi Senate passed an amended bill, with a 32 ayes, 17 nays, and 1 absent or not voting. On April 1, 2016, the Mississippi House of Representatives passed the bill as amended by the Senate, with 69 ayes, 44 nays, 7 absent or not voting, and 1 voted present.
Mississippi has passed a bill granting churchgoers the right to shoot and kill citizens at will. [SEP] Gun laws in Mississippi // above), effectively legalizing constitutional carry. Additionally, churches are now covered under the Castle Doctrine and state/local law enforcement are barred from enforcing federal regulations/executive orders not approved by Congress that violate the U.S. Constitution or Mississippi Constitution. Mississippi has state preemption of many but not all firearm laws. No county or municipality may adopt any ordinance that restricts or requires the possession, transportation, sale, transfer or ownership of firearms or ammunition or their components. However, local governments may regulate the discharge of firearms, the carrying of firearms at a public park or public meeting, or the use of firearms in
Mississippi has passed a bill granting churchgoers the right to shoot and kill citizens at will. [SEP] T. T. Martin // penalty "death by burning at the stake, it being the spirit of this bill to restore the Spanish Inquisition." The amendment was defeated but the bill passed, 29 to 16, and was signed by Governor Henry L. Whitfield. While Chancellor Hume of the University of Mississippi argued the law would force the state's teachers to be intellectually dishonest, the superintendent of the high school in Meridian held a public bonfire to burn all pages about evolution from textbooks used in his school. An ACLU offer to assist any Mississippi taxpayer or member of the American Association of University Professors in
Mississippi has passed a bill granting churchgoers the right to shoot and kill citizens at will. [SEP] Charleston church shooting // to purchase the gun under a law that barred anyone who is an "unlawful user of or addicted to any controlled substance" from owning firearms. Several bills aiming to fix this loophole were proposed, and South Carolina legislation planned to discuss the loophole in 2016. On September 17, one of the friends who briefly hid Roof's gun away from him was arrested, reportedly for lying to federal authorities during their investigation and failing to report a crime. The next day, he pleaded not guilty to one count of making false statements to federal investigators and one count of concealing knowledge
Mississippi has passed a bill granting churchgoers the right to shoot and kill citizens at will. [SEP] Constitution of Mississippi // to the rights to those that are found in the United States Bill of Rights. Unique additions to the 1890 Mississippian constitution include Section 7 (denying the state the ability to secede from the United States, carried over from the 1868 constitution), Section 12 (explicitly permitting regulation of concealed carry weapons, which was not included in the 1868 constitution) and Sections 26, 26A, and 29 (on conditions for grand jury and bail necessitated by the War on Drugs). Section 12 allows for the ownership of weapons by the state's residents, however, the state government is given the power to regulate
Mississippi has passed a bill granting churchgoers the right to shoot and kill citizens at will. [SEP] Constitution of Mississippi // of bearing arms from the broad definition of "all persons" to the more restrictive term of "citizen" only, who were intended to be limited to white men only by the 1890 constitution's framers. By granting to the state government the power to enact laws restricting the carrying of concealed weapons by the state's residents, it gave the state a newly enumerated power it did not have under the state's three previous constitutions. During the late 19th century and well into the early 20th century, there was a growing trend among the governments of southern U.S. states, controlled by Democrats, in
Mississippi has passed a bill granting churchgoers the right to shoot and kill citizens at will. [SEP] State Religious Freedom Restoration Acts // see Mississippi's law as model legislation. On March 9, 2016, the Missouri State Senate passed a religious freedom bill. Senate Democrats tried to stop the bill with a 39-hour filibuster, but Republicans responded by forcing a vote using a rarely used procedural maneuver, which resulted in the bill passing. In April, it was defeated 6-6 in a Missouri House of Representatives committee vote, with three Republicans joining three Democrats in voting against the bill. On March 10, 2017, Dennis Daugaard, the governor of South Dakota, signed into law SB 149, which allows taxpayer-funded adoption agencies to deny services under circumstances
I remember one of [Curt Schilling's] teammates said he painted his sock, the bloody sock. [SEP] Curt Schilling // against the St. Louis Cardinals. In both series, he had to have the tendon in his right ankle stabilized repeatedly, in what has become known as the Schilling tendon procedure, after the tendon sheath was torn during his Game 1 ALDS appearance against the Anaheim Angels. As in Game 6 of the ALCS, Schilling's sock was soaked with blood from the sutures used in this medical procedure, but he still managed to pitch seven strong innings, giving up one run on four hits and striking out four. This second bloody sock was placed in the Baseball Hall of Fame after
I remember one of [Curt Schilling's] teammates said he painted his sock, the bloody sock. [SEP] Yankees–Red Sox rivalry // ALDS against Anaheim, pitched seven innings of one-run ball. Schilling's tendon had been sutured to his ankle to relieve the discomfort and was given local anesthetic and painkillers for the game. During the game, his sock started to absorb the blood from his freshly sutured ankle, and "the bloody sock" instantly became an indelible image of the dramatic series. A controversial call was made when Alex Rodriguez was called out after he intentionally slapped the ball out of Arroyo's hand while running to first base. Boston held on to win the contest, 4–2. They then completed their historic comeback with
I remember one of [Curt Schilling's] teammates said he painted his sock, the bloody sock. [SEP] Curt Schilling // York Yankees. Notably, he won this game playing on an injured ankle—the same injuries that contributed to his disastrous outing in Game 1 of the ALCS. These injuries were so acute that by the end of his Game 6 performance, blood visibly soaked part of his white sock, which is now referred to as "the bloody sock". The victory forced a Game 7, which the Red Sox would go on to win to capture the pennant and make their first World Series appearance since 1986. Schilling pitched (and won) Game 2 of the 2004 World Series for the Red Sox
I remember one of [Curt Schilling's] teammates said he painted his sock, the bloody sock. [SEP] Curt Schilling // Boston's victory over St. Louis in the World Series. A four-game sweep of the World Series erased the Curse of the Bambino. On February 23, 2013, the first bloody sock was sold at a live auction at the Fletcher-Sinclair Mansion for $92,613 to an anonymous bidder. Schilling was once again runner-up in Cy Young voting in 2004, this time to Minnesota Twins hurler Johan Santana, who was a unanimous selection, receiving all 28 first-place votes. Schilling received 27 of the 28 second-place votes. Later, the entire Red Sox team was named "Sports Illustrated"'s 2004 Sportsmen of the Year, making Schilling
I remember one of [Curt Schilling's] teammates said he painted his sock, the bloody sock. [SEP] Doug Mirabelli // to try to quell a situation that had clearly gotten out of hand. While also making a point to affirm that the substance on Schilling's sock was undoubtedly his own blood, Mirabelli did acknowledge that there was likely a misunderstanding in a past dialogue with Thorne after the commentator had also admitted as much. Schilling's bloody sock now resides in the Baseball Hall of Fame. Mirabelli hit under .200 for the rest of the season and battled an ankle injury late in the year; Wakefield pitched just over .500 before suffering an injury in July and missing almost two months.
I remember one of [Curt Schilling's] teammates said he painted his sock, the bloody sock. [SEP] Curt Schilling // criticized Schilling for the condition he showed up in for spring training, referred to him as "the Big Blowhard" and mocked Schilling's blog and radio appearances. Schilling has responded by using the Sons of Sam Horn forum and his own blog to point out errors in Shaughnessy's columns. On April 27, 2007, broadcaster Gary Thorne said that he overheard Red Sox catcher Doug Mirabelli say that the blood on the sock used by Schilling in Game 6 of the 2004 ALCS was actually paint. Mirabelli accused Thorne of lying and a day later, after talking to Mirabelli, Thorne backed off
I remember one of [Curt Schilling's] teammates said he painted his sock, the bloody sock. [SEP] Gary Thorne // the clubhouse. "I took it as something serious, and it wasn't," Thorne said. Mirabelli confirmed the story, saying, "He knows that I believe 100 percent that I thought the sock had blood on it. It never crossed my mind that there wasn't blood on that sock. If he misinterpreted something said inside the clubhouse, it's unfortunate." Mirabelli said he spoke with Thorne in the Boston clubhouse about six months after the 2004 playoffs. "As he was walking away he asked, 'How about the bloody sock?' I said, 'Yeah, we got a lot of publicity out of that,' and that was
I remember one of [Curt Schilling's] teammates said he painted his sock, the bloody sock. [SEP] 2004 American League Championship Series // Millar. Nonetheless, the Yankees did not bunt for the duration of Schilling's outing, something Joe Torre later explained as not playing out of the normal character of his team. Torre also admitted that had he known beforehand how bad the injury really was, it might have changed his mind. By the end of his performance, Schilling's white sanitary sock was partially soaked in blood, and he stated later that he was completely exhausted. Bronson Arroyo took the mound for Boston in the eighth and, with one out, allowed a Miguel Cairo double. Derek Jeter singled him in to close the
I remember one of [Curt Schilling's] teammates said he painted his sock, the bloody sock. [SEP] History of the Boston Red Sox // to Yankee Stadium for Game 6, the comeback continued with Schilling pitching on a bad ankle. The three sutures in Schilling's ankle bled throughout the game, making his sock appear bloody red. Schilling struck out four, walked none, and only allowed one run over seven innings to lead the team to victory. Mark Bellhorn also helped in the effort as he hit a three-run home run in the fourth inning. In the bottom of the ninth, the Yankees staged a rally and brought former Red Sox player Tony Clark to the plate as the potential winning run. Keith Foulke, pitching
I remember one of [Curt Schilling's] teammates said he painted his sock, the bloody sock. [SEP] Curse of the Bambino // Buffett and his warm-up team (one dressed as Ruth and one dressed as a witch doctor) at a Fenway concert in September 2004. Just after being traded to the Red Sox, Curt Schilling appeared in an advertisement for the Ford F-150 pickup truck hitchhiking with a sign indicating he was going to Boston. When picked up, he said that he had "an 86-year-old curse" to break. In 2004, the Red Sox once again met the Yankees in the American League Championship Series. The Red Sox lost the first three games, including losing Game 3 at Fenway by the lopsided score
Trampolines add bounce to group fitness classes. [SEP] Trampoline // may be beneficial in alerting people to possible hazards and provide techniques to avoid bad falls. Family-oriented commercial areas in North America, such as shopping centres, carnivals, and so on, often include closed inflatable trampolines (CITs) as a children's attraction. These have safety nets on the sides to prevent injuries. A mini-trampoline (also known as a rebounder, trampette, jogging trampoline, or exercise trampoline) is a type of trampoline less than in diameter and about off the ground, often kept indoors and used as part of a physical fitness regime. So-called rebounding provides a form of exercise with a low impact
Trampolines add bounce to group fitness classes. [SEP] Sky Zone // for each trampoline are covered by mats to prevent visitors from falling into these holes. Larger courts allow for many visitors to bounce and jump simultaneously, while smaller courts are used for games of dodgeball, where players can bounce around to avoid being hit by other players' throws. Some courts allow visitors to bounce into a pit filled with foam blocks, and others feature basketball goals placed above trampolines, permitting visitors to bounce and slam dunk shots into the goals. Some centers have started exercise classes using the trampoline courts. Additional space in the facility is set aside for birthday
Trampolines add bounce to group fitness classes. [SEP] Rebound exercise // which experienced a tremendous upsurge of interest in the mid-1980s. A rebound exercise program can focus on aerobics, strength, or just simple easy non-jarring movement, depending on the needs of the person bouncing. Typically round, rebounders are much smaller (at about 3 to 4 feet in total diameter) than regular trampolines, and they are not designed for stunts. Other equipment for one or two feet, such as Kangoo Jumps or BOSU balls, can provide a type of rebound exercise experience, and regular, full-size, sports or athletic trampolines can also be used to perform the various movements, routines, programs, and styles
Trampolines add bounce to group fitness classes. [SEP] Trampoline // Trampoline A trampoline is a device consisting of a piece of taut, strong fabric stretched between a steel frame using many coiled springs. People bounce on trampolines for recreational and competitive purposes. The fabric that users bounce on (commonly known as the "bounce mat" or "trampoline bed") is not elastic itself; the elasticity is provided by the springs that connect it to the frame, which store potential energy. A game similar to trampolining was developed by the Inuit, who would toss blanket dancers into the air on a walrus skin one at a time (see Nalukataq) during a spring celebration
Trampolines add bounce to group fitness classes. [SEP] Trampoline // the Olympic Games since 2000. On a modern competitive trampoline, a skilled athlete can bounce to a height of up to , performing multiple somersaults and twists. Trampolines also feature in the competitive sport of Slamball, a variant of basketball, and Bossaball, a variant of volleyball. There are a number of other sports that use trampolines to help develop and hone acrobatic skills in training before they are used in the actual sporting venue. Examples can be found in diving, gymnastics, and freestyle skiing. One main advantage of trampolining as a training tool for other acrobatic sports is that it
Trampolines add bounce to group fitness classes. [SEP] Trampoline // speed can be transferred to rotation in addition to forces from the legs or arms. Additionally, energy can be gained both from the bed at the bottom of the bounce, and from the wall at the top of the bounce. Using a trampoline can be dangerous. Organized clubs and gyms usually have large safety end-decks with foam pads at each end, and spotters are placed alongside the trampoline to try to break the fall of any athlete who loses control and falls. In 1999, the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission estimated there were 100,000 hospital emergency room visits for trampoline
Trampolines add bounce to group fitness classes. [SEP] Rebound exercise // combat a number of ailments (see “Claimed Benefits” below) given its ability to generally and gently stimulate the immune system and provide aerobic exercise without jarring the physical structures of the body as the elastic element of the rebounder is said to take up to 85% of the shock that the body would otherwise experience. Rebounders are often called “mini-trampolines,” but this is a misnomer. Trampolines are generally much larger, and are designed to perform stunts such as flips and seat drops, while it is dangerous to perform stunts on rebounders. While there are “double mini-trampolines” used in sports and
Trampolines add bounce to group fitness classes. [SEP] Trampolining // Trampolining Trampolining or trampoline gymnastics is a recreational activity, acrobatic training tool as well as a competitive Olympic sport in which athletes perform acrobatics while bouncing on a trampoline. In competition, these can include simple jumps in the straight, pike, tuck, or straddle position to more complex combinations of forward or backward somersaults and twists. Scoring is based on the difficulty and on the total seconds spent in the air. Points are deducted for bad form and horizontal displacement from the center of the bed. Outside of the Olympics, competitions are referred to as GymSport, Trampoline Gymnastics (TG), or Gymnastics,
Trampolines add bounce to group fitness classes. [SEP] Trampoline // on knees and joints. Mini-trampolines do not give a rebound as high as larger recreational or competitive trampolines. Most department and big-box stores sell mini-trampolines. In co-operation with the University of Bremen and the German Aerospace Center (DLR), the machtWissen.de Corporation from Bremen, Germany developed the weightlessness demonstrator "Gravity Jumper" based on a trampoline. Due to the acceleration during the jump, an acceleration force takes effect in addition to the usual gravitational force. Both forces add up and the person on the trampoline seems to become heavier. As soon as the jumper leaves the trampoline, he is under a free
Trampolines add bounce to group fitness classes. [SEP] Gymnastics // trampoline, double mini trampoline, and tumbling (also known as power tumbling or rod floor). Since 2000, individual trampoline has been included in the Olympic Games. The first World Championships were held in 1964. Individual routines in trampolining involve a build-up phase during which the gymnast jumps repeatedly to achieve height, followed by a sequence of ten bounces without pause during which the gymnast performs a sequence of aerial skills. Routines are marked out of a maximum score of 10 points. Additional points (with no maximum at the highest levels of competition) can be earned depending on the difficulty of the
MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY: HEARTBROKEN FAMILY AWAITS FDA DECISION ON EXPERIMENTAL DRUG [SEP] Henri Termeer // Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD), is being developed by pharmaceutical giant, GlaxoSmithKline (GSK). GSK, which also makes major investments in rare diseases and orphan drugs, licensed 051 in 2009 for "$25 million upfront and another $655 million in milestones." "Prosensa has a technology that could provide an array of RNA therapies for different variants of DMD, which affects about 1 in 3,500 male births and causes muscle wasting that leads to premature death." In 2012 Prosensa was listed by the industry news monitor Fierce Biotech's Fierce 15 as one of their top choices of pharmaceutical firms. Fierce Biotech covers biotechnology news
MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY: HEARTBROKEN FAMILY AWAITS FDA DECISION ON EXPERIMENTAL DRUG [SEP] Ezutromid // lack of dystrophin to retard muscle degeneration. Both the FDA and European Medicines Agency has given ezutromid an orphan drug designation. The FDA Office of Orphan Products and Development offers an Orphan Drug Designation program (ODD) that allows drugs aimed to treat diseases that affect less than 200,000 people in the U.S. monetary incentives such as a period of market exclusivity, tax incentives, and expedited approval processes. The first Phase 1b trial (NCT02056808) began on November 2013 and involved 12 patients aged 5–11 years old. The patients were divided into three groups given escalating oral doses testing the safety and
MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY: HEARTBROKEN FAMILY AWAITS FDA DECISION ON EXPERIMENTAL DRUG [SEP] Becker's muscular dystrophy // is a known inhibitor of the protein cyclophilin D, which regulates the swelling of mitochondria in response to cellular injury. Researchers decided to test the drug in mice engineered to carry MD after earlier laboratory tests showed deleting a gene that encodes cycolphilin D reduced swelling and reversed or prevented the disease’s muscle-damaging characteristics. According to a review by Bushby, et al. if a primary protein is not functioning properly then maybe another protein could take its place by augmenting it. Upregulation of compensatory proteins has been done in models of transgenic mice. The progression of Becker muscular dystrophy is
MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY: HEARTBROKEN FAMILY AWAITS FDA DECISION ON EXPERIMENTAL DRUG [SEP] Paul D. Wellstone Muscular Dystrophy Community Assistance, Research and Education Amendments of 2013 // to various forms of muscular dystrophy, including Duchenne, Becker, limb girdle, congenital, facioscapulohumeral, myotonic, oculopharyngeal, distal, and Emery–Dreifuss muscular dystrophies. According to the Muscular Dystrophy Association, "since 2001, there have been 67 clinical trials of drugs or therapies for muscular dystrophy, and currently 37 clinical trials are under way." "This summary is based largely on the summary provided by the Congressional Research Service, a public domain source." The Paul D. Wellstone Muscular Dystrophy Community Assistance, Research and Education Amendments of 2013 would amend the Public Health Service Act to revise the muscular dystrophy research program of the National Institutes of
MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY: HEARTBROKEN FAMILY AWAITS FDA DECISION ON EXPERIMENTAL DRUG [SEP] Gene therapy // levels of SERCA2, a protein in heart muscles, improving muscle function. The FDA granted this a Breakthrough Therapy Designation to accelerate the trial and approval process. In 2016 it was reported that no improvement was found from the CUPID 2 trial. In July researchers reported promising results for six children with two severe hereditary diseases had been treated with a partially deactivated lentivirus to replace a faulty gene and after 7–32 months. Three of the children had metachromatic leukodystrophy, which causes children to lose cognitive and motor skills. The other children had Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome, which leaves them to open to
MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY: HEARTBROKEN FAMILY AWAITS FDA DECISION ON EXPERIMENTAL DRUG [SEP] Drisapersen // review with the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA). In January 2016, the FDA rejected drisapersen (Kyndrisa) after it concluded that the standard of substantial evidence of effectiveness had not been met, effectively shifting focus to rival Sarepta's eteplirsen. The Prescription Drug User Fee Act (PDUFA) goal dates for these are December 27, 2015 for drisapersen and February 26, 2016 for eteplirsen. In May 2016, BioMarin announced they intended to discontinue clinical and regulatory development of drisapersen as well as related first generation compounds currently in Phase 2 studies for distinct forms of Duchenne muscular dystrophy. The company claim they
MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY: HEARTBROKEN FAMILY AWAITS FDA DECISION ON EXPERIMENTAL DRUG [SEP] Muscular Dystrophy Association // some of the diseases in MDA's program, the availability of a newborn screening program at the time of treatment availability presents the best opportunity for impacting optimal and potential lifesaving treatment outcomes." The MDA supported the Paul D. Wellstone Muscular Dystrophy Community Assistance, Research and Education Amendments of 2013 (H.R. 594; 113th Congress), a bill that would amend the Public Health Service Act to revise the muscular dystrophy research program of the National Institutes of Health (NIH). MDA argued that "a great deal of work still needs to be done, and increased federal support is needed to ensure that researchers
MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY: HEARTBROKEN FAMILY AWAITS FDA DECISION ON EXPERIMENTAL DRUG [SEP] Duchenne muscular dystrophy // disease. Current research includes exon-skipping, stem cell replacement therapy, analog up-regulation, gene replacement, and supportive care to slow disease progression. Efforts are ongoing to find medications the either return the ability to make dystrophin or utrophin. Other efforts include trying to block the entry of calcium ions into muscle cells. Antisense oligonucleotides (oligos), structural analogs of DNA, are the basis of a potential treatment for 10% of people with DMD. The compounds allow faulty parts of the dystrophin gene to be skipped when it is transcribed to RNA for protein production, permitting a still-truncated but more functional version of the
MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY: HEARTBROKEN FAMILY AWAITS FDA DECISION ON EXPERIMENTAL DRUG [SEP] Muscular Dystrophy Association // store. MDA targets the following muscle-affecting diseaes: The organization also targets muscle diseases due to deficiencies in carnitine and the following enzymes: The MDA supported the Newborn Screening Saves Lives Reauthorization Act of 2013 (H.R. 1281; 113th Congress), a bill that would amend the Public Health Service Act to reauthorize grant programs and other initiatives to promote expanded screening of newborns and children for heritable disorders. The MDA argued that "many of the drug therapies currently under development for MDA's community will be of most benefit if administered either presymptomatically or early in the progression of the disease. Thus, for
MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY: HEARTBROKEN FAMILY AWAITS FDA DECISION ON EXPERIMENTAL DRUG [SEP] Ataluren // Commission to treat people with nonsense mutation Duchenne muscular dystrophy in August 2014; a confirmatory phase III clinical trial was required. By December it was on the market in Germany, France, Italy, Denmark, Spain and a number of other European countries. In February 2016, FDA declined to accept PTC Therapeutics new drug application for ataluren, which was based on a clinical trial in which ataluren missed its primary endpoint; PTC appealed and the FDA declined again in October 2016. In July 2016, NHS England agreed a Managed Access Agreement (MAA) for Translarna providing reimbursed patient access to Translarna in England
Consuming tainted lettuce caused more deaths in 2018 than homicides perpetrated by undocumented immigrants. [SEP] Romaine lettuce // disease agent was Shiga toxin-producing . The most recent illness started on December 12, 2017; the PHA declared the outbreak over on January 10, 2018, and the CDC declared it over on January 25. In response to another "E. coli" O157:H7 outbreak, which probably began in mid-March 2018, the CDC recommended in April 2018 that consumers not buy or eat romaine lettuce unless they could confirm it was not from the Yuma, Arizona, growing region. On May 22, 2018, after a month-long warning, the CDC announced it was now safe to consume romaine again. The outbreak killed five people and
Consuming tainted lettuce caused more deaths in 2018 than homicides perpetrated by undocumented immigrants. [SEP] 2018 Romaine lettuce E. coli O157:H7 outbreak // 2018 Romaine lettuce E. coli O157:H7 outbreak In 2018, a strain of "Escherichia coli" bacteria caused the reported illness of 210 people across 36 states in the US, carried on Romaine lettuce from Yuma, Arizona. This strain produces shiga toxin, which is thought to have been transferred to the species from a strain of "Shigella" by a bacteriophage, a kind of virus that (as the name implies) "eats" bacteria. On or after April 16, 2018, cases of food poisoning began to be reported in the New York State area. The CDC eventually concluded this was an example of O157:H7, its
Consuming tainted lettuce caused more deaths in 2018 than homicides perpetrated by undocumented immigrants. [SEP] Listeriosis // for listeria on lettuce shipped on September 12 and 13 by an Oregon distributor to at least two other states—Washington and Idaho. By October 18, the CDC reported that 12 states are now linked to listeria in cantaloupe and that 123 people have been sickened and a total of 25 have died. While the tainted cantaloupes should be off store shelves by now, the number of illnesses may still continue to grow. The CDC confirmed a sixth death in Colorado and a second in New York; Indiana, Kansas, Louisiana, Maryland, Missouri, Nebraska, New Mexico, Oklahoma, Texas and Wyoming have also
Consuming tainted lettuce caused more deaths in 2018 than homicides perpetrated by undocumented immigrants. [SEP] 2018 Romaine lettuce E. coli O157:H7 outbreak // code for a strain of "E. coli "that is noteworthy for seeming to have genes from a different but related species, "Shigella", producing an unusual toxin, though not one especially lethal to human beings. List of foodborne illness outbreaks in the United States 2018 Romaine lettuce E. coli O157:H7 outbreak In 2018, a strain of "Escherichia coli" bacteria caused the reported illness of 210 people across 36 states in the US, carried on Romaine lettuce from Yuma, Arizona. This strain produces shiga toxin, which is thought to have been transferred to the species from a strain of "Shigella" by a
Consuming tainted lettuce caused more deaths in 2018 than homicides perpetrated by undocumented immigrants. [SEP] Romaine lettuce // caused 89 hospitalizations across 32 states. In June 2018, the FDA traced the source of the latest "E. coli" outbreak to water from a canal located in Yuma, Arizona. In November 2018, the US CDC and the PHA of Canada issued a warning to consumers that romaine lettuce should not be consumed in any form, and that they should dispose of any currently on hand. The same strain of "E. coli" identified in the 2017-2018 outbreak was implicated. At least 43 people became ill in this outbreak, which the FDA traced to one of six counties in Central California: Monterey,
Consuming tainted lettuce caused more deaths in 2018 than homicides perpetrated by undocumented immigrants. [SEP] 2006 North American E. coli O157:H7 outbreaks // 2006 North American E. coli O157:H7 outbreaks In 2006, there were several outbreaks of foodborne illness from spinach and lettuce contaminated by . The initial outbreak occurred in September 2006 and its probable origin was an Angus cattle ranch that had leased land to a spinach grower (growing under organic practices). At least 205 consumer illnesses and 3 deaths have been attributed to the tainted produce. In December 2006, Taco Bell restaurants in four Northeastern states emerged as a common link among 71 sickened people across five states, 52 of whom were ultimately confirmed by the Centers for Disease Control
Consuming tainted lettuce caused more deaths in 2018 than homicides perpetrated by undocumented immigrants. [SEP] Environmental inequality in Europe // society while facing extreme deprivations. In Murcia, lettuce pickers have complained of having to illegally work for salary by volume for employment agencies, instead of by the hour, meaning they are required to work more hours for less pay, while also experiencing unsafe exposure to pesticides. Workers have alleged that they have been forced to work in fields while pesticide spraying is active, a practice which is illegal under Spanish work safety laws. Beginning in the 2000s in the El Ejido region of Andalusia, African (including large numbers of Moroccan) immigrant greenhouse workers have been documented as being faced with
Consuming tainted lettuce caused more deaths in 2018 than homicides perpetrated by undocumented immigrants. [SEP] Produce traceability // by the Center for Science in the Public Interest, found that produce caused 428 outbreaks and 23,857 cases of illness. Authorities note that several factors have contributed to the rise in outbreaks: The U.S. Food and Drug Administration noted in 2007 that fruit and vegetable-related outbreaks of food poisoning are on the rise and had struck in spinach, tomatoes, lettuce and cantaloupes. The agency urged fruit and vegetable processors to adopt food safety plans similar to those in the meat industry. An outbreak of "Salmonella" Saintpaul in 2008 was characterized by the US Center for Disease Control as the largest
Consuming tainted lettuce caused more deaths in 2018 than homicides perpetrated by undocumented immigrants. [SEP] Clostridium perfringens // arising from the incident. In December 2014, 87-year-old Bessie Scott died 3 days after eating a church potluck supper in Nackawic, New Brunswick, Canada. Over 30 other people reported signs of gastrointestinal illness, diarrhea, and abdominal pain. The province's acting chief medical officer says, "Clostridium perfringens" is the bacteria [sic] that most likely caused the woman's death. In October 2016, 66-year-old Alex Zdravich died four days after eating an enchilada, burrito, and taco at Agave Azul in West Lafayette, Indiana. Three others who dined the same day reported signs of foodborne illness, which were consistent with the symptoms and rapid
Consuming tainted lettuce caused more deaths in 2018 than homicides perpetrated by undocumented immigrants. [SEP] 2006 North American E. coli O157:H7 outbreak in spinach // the FBI has launched a criminal investigation into this matter. On October 9, 2006, a popular brand of lettuce grown in California's Salinas Valley, the region at the center of the nationwide spinach scare has been recalled over concerns about "E. coli" contamination. On October 26, 2006, some of the largest grocery chains, including Vons, Albertsons, Ralphs and others, sent a letter to the farmer's associations, giving them 6 weeks to come up with a plan to prevent problems like the E. coli breakout from happening again. The overall toll of the spinach incident was 199 people in 28 states
Medtronic recalls heparin-coated bypass equipment. [SEP] Oxygenator // Carmeda Bioactive Surface and Duraflo II coatings. The researchers concluded that: Statistics and conclusions from more studies are available here. Clearly, heparin-coated blood oxygenators exhibit some advantages over non-coated oxygenators. Some hospitals use heparin-coated oxygenators for the large majority of their cases requiring cardiopulmonary bypass. It is unclear whether most surgeons actually reduce the amount of systemic heparin used when their patients are being perfused with heparin-coated oxygenators. Ultimately, each surgeon makes this decision based upon the needs of individual patient. Although they offer advantages, these oxygenators are not widely regarded by surgeons as revolutionary breakthroughs in cardiopulmonary bypass. This
Medtronic recalls heparin-coated bypass equipment. [SEP] Oxygenator // to decrease morbidity associated with CPB to a limited degree. Heparin-coated oxygenators are thought to: Heparin coating is reported to result in similar characteristics to the native endothelium. It has been shown to inhibit intrinsic coagulation, inhibit host responses to extracorporeal circulation, and lessen postperfusion, or “pumphead,” syndrome. Several studies have examined the clinical efficacy of these oxygenators. Mirow et al. 2001 examined the effects of heparin-coated cardiopulmonary bypass systems combined with full and low dose systemic heparinization in coronary artery bypass patients. The researchers concluded that Ovrum et al. 2001 compared the clinical outcomes of 1336 patients with the
Medtronic recalls heparin-coated bypass equipment. [SEP] 2008 Chinese heparin adulteration // 2008 Chinese heparin adulteration In March 2008, major recalls of heparin, a substance widely used as an injectable anticoagulant, were announced by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) due to contamination of the raw heparin stock imported from China. The raw material for the recalled heparin batches was processed in China from pig's intestines by the American pharmaceutical firm Scientific Protein Laboratories. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration was quoted as stating that at least 81 deaths were believed to be linked to a raw heparin ingredient imported from the People's Republic of China, and that they had also
Medtronic recalls heparin-coated bypass equipment. [SEP] Baxter International // were never subjected to inspection by US FDA officials, as required by FDA regulations. In addition, Changzhou SPL's products were also never certified as safe for use in pharmaceutical products by Chinese FDA officials, due to Changzhou SPL's registration as a chemical company rather than a pharmaceutical manufacturer. Though Baxter was first to recall heparin because of increased adverse reactions, after the contaminant was identified and testing protocols were shared with other manufacturers globally, over a dozen other companies in nearly a dozen countries issued recalls, which linked back to certain supply points in China. In early 2009, samples of
Medtronic recalls heparin-coated bypass equipment. [SEP] Medtronic // Medtronic Carelink Model 2090 Programmer for Medtronic and Vitatron Devices; they use separate interfaces. In 2007, Medtronic recalled its Sprint Fidelis product, the flexible wires, or leads, which connect a defibrillator to the interior of the heart. The leads were found to be failing at an unacceptable rate, resulting in unnecessary shocks or no shocks when needed; either can be lethal. The scope of the problem continues to be a matter of research. Studies since the recall, disputed by Medtronic, suggest that the failure rate of already-implanted Sprint Fidelis leads is increasing exponentially. Medtronic's liability is limited by various court
Medtronic recalls heparin-coated bypass equipment. [SEP] 2008 Chinese heparin adulteration // are fully responsible for qualifying their suppliers through on-site audits, testing, and regular communications. This ongoing responsibility is essential to ensure supply chain security, drug quality and drug safety, These basic commitments to the pharmaceutical consumer can only be ensured by adherence to Good Manufacturing Practice and Good Distribution Practice. 2008 Chinese heparin adulteration In March 2008, major recalls of heparin, a substance widely used as an injectable anticoagulant, were announced by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) due to contamination of the raw heparin stock imported from China. The raw material for the recalled heparin batches was processed
Medtronic recalls heparin-coated bypass equipment. [SEP] Becton Dickinson // 21 April 2008, the prosecutor's office in Lublin discontinued the inquiry, because the disposable syringes were not dangerous. In February 2010 BD announced a voluntary product recall of certain lots of BD Q-Syte Luer Access Devices and BD Nexiva Closed IV Catheter Systems. BD stated that the use of the affected devices may cause an air embolism or leakage of blood and/or therapy, which may result in serious injury or death. The approximately 2.8 million BD Q-Syte and 2.9 million BD Nexiva units containing 5 million BD Q-Syte devices that were recalled were distributed in the United States, Asia, Canada,
Medtronic recalls heparin-coated bypass equipment. [SEP] Heparin mimicking polymers // °C), it transitions to its rubbery state, allowing the nitinol to resume its corkscrew shape. Retrieval of the blood clot occurs through a pull back motion. The nitinol is engulfed in a tight space even though it is expanding and as a result retreats thus extracting the tissue. Heparin mimicking polymers Heparin Mimicking Polymers are synthetic compounds that possess similar characteristics to heparin, that is it can be used clinically as an anticoagulant. These compounds like heparin possess a negative charge density that allows it to interact and inhibit the coagulation process. Glucose or mannose-contain n-alkyl urea peptoid oligomer, glucose
Medtronic recalls heparin-coated bypass equipment. [SEP] Heparin mimicking polymers // polymers. Events such as the 2008 heparin contamination event, and mad cow disease further enhance the new demand for more robust anticoagulants. Additionally prolonged use of heparin results in heparin induced thrombocytopenia. Three aspects of synthetic mimicking polymers are currently focused on: mimicking anionic sulfate domains of heparin, polymerization of sulfated saccharides and sulfation of natural occurring GAGs. Heparin mimicking polymers can be synthesized through a variety of mechanisms. To begin, monomers can be either be synthesized or purchased from avenues such as Sigma Aldrich. The monomers are the basic subunits of the polymer and can be designed to incorporate
Medtronic recalls heparin-coated bypass equipment. [SEP] Baxter International // was brought into question when they were linked to 19 deaths in the United States. Upon inspection, one of the raw ingredients used by Baxter was found to be contaminated – between 5 and 20 percent – with a substance that was similar, but not identical, to the ingredient itself. The company initiated a voluntary recall, temporarily suspended the manufacture of heparin, and launched an investigation. The investigation into the contamination has focused on raw heparin produced by Changzhou Scientific Protein Laboratories, a China-based branch of Scientific Protein Laboratories, based in Waunakee, Wisconsin. Due to procedural errors, Changzhou SPL's facilities
The Baseball Diet Is Proving To Be A Heavy Favorite For Shedding Pounds In 2015 [SEP] South Beach Diet // foods such as lean meats and vegetables, and has a concept of "good" (mostly monounsaturated) fats. It makes no restriction on calorie intake, includes an exercise program, and is based around taking three main meals and two snacks per day. The first stage of the diet aims for rapid weight loss (13 lbs in two weeks). According to the UK's National Health Service (NHS), the severity of the first stage of the diet may result in the loss of some vitamins, minerals and fiber. The NHS reports that dietary restrictions during stage one may cause side effects including "bad breath,
The Baseball Diet Is Proving To Be A Heavy Favorite For Shedding Pounds In 2015 [SEP] Alex Rodriguez // Despite this success, it was perceived as one of his lesser-accomplished seasons and was harshly criticized throughout the 2006 season. He has commented that 2006 was his most difficult season as a professional. When Rodriguez reported to camp in 2007, he had reduced his body fat from 16% the year before to 9%. He made light of this fact during a "Late Show with David Letterman" sketch that was filmed during Spring training, which featured him shirtless being rubbed down with suntan lotion. He revealed to the press that he and Jeter were no longer close friends. Rodriguez also reduced
The Baseball Diet Is Proving To Be A Heavy Favorite For Shedding Pounds In 2015 [SEP] Whole30 // the #WeightWatchers hashtag. No studies that specifically look into the health impacts of the Whole30 had been conducted as of 2016. While dietitians generally agree with the program's emphasis on proteins, vegetables and unprocessed foods and the avoidance of added sugars and alcohol, they also view the diet as too extreme. The diet ranked last among 38 popular diets evaluated by "U.S. News & World Report" in its 2016 Best Diets Rankings; one of the raters, dietitian Meridan Zerner said: "We want behavioral changes and dietary changes that are slow and progressive and meaningful." David L. Katz said of the
The Baseball Diet Is Proving To Be A Heavy Favorite For Shedding Pounds In 2015 [SEP] Major League Eating: The Game // Major League Eating: The Game Major League Eating: The Game is a video game for WiiWare developed by Sensory Sweep Studios, and produced by Mastiff. The first video game to be based on competitive eating, it was released in North America on July 14, 2008, and in Japan on March 24, 2009. Based on competitive eating contests held by Major League Eating, the game features eleven competitive eating professionals to compete against including Takeru Kobayashi, Joey Chestnut, Tim Janus, Patrick Bertoletti, Crazy Legs Conti, Sonya Thomas, Rich LeFevre and Juliet Lee, as well as a Kodiak bear. The Japanese release
The Baseball Diet Is Proving To Be A Heavy Favorite For Shedding Pounds In 2015 [SEP] Matt Stonie // He weighs and is tall. His nickname, "Megatoad," is from the character Toad from the video game "Super Mario Bros." Stonie's Major League Eating debut was at the Stockton Deep Fried Asparagus Championship in Stockton, California in 2011. He is currently the youngest member of the Major League Eating organization. His first win came in 2010 in a lobster roll eating contest in Hampton Beach, New Hampshire. On July 4, 2015, Stonie defeated 8-time defending Nathan's Hot Dog Eating Contest champion Joey Chestnut by eating 62 hot dogs to Chestnut's 60. On July 4, 2016, Stonie came in second to
The Baseball Diet Is Proving To Be A Heavy Favorite For Shedding Pounds In 2015 [SEP] Dieting // Nineteen Day Fast from sunrise to sunset during March each year. Weight loss diets that manipulate the proportion of macronutrients (low-fat, low-carbohydrate, etc.) have been shown to be more effective than diets that maintain a typical mix of foods with smaller portions and perhaps some substitutions (e.g. low-fat milk, or less salad dressing). Extreme diets may, in some cases, lead to malnutrition. Nutritionists also agree on the importance of avoiding fats, especially saturated fats, to reduce weight and to be healthier. They also agree on the importance of reducing salt intake because foods including snacks, biscuits, and bread already contain
The Baseball Diet Is Proving To Be A Heavy Favorite For Shedding Pounds In 2015 [SEP] Dukan Diet // "attack" phase is designed to enable dieters to rapidly lose in two to seven days by kick-starting their metabolism. Dieters are allowed to eat as much as they want of 68 protein-rich foods. The "cruise" phase is designed to allow dieters to more gradually achieve the weight they aim for by eating protein-rich foods with the addition of 28 specific vegetables (but avoiding those especially starchy or fatty, e.g., potatoes or avocados). The length of this phase is usually calculated as of weight loss per week, but this is based on specific personal conditions. Tolerated foods are also allowed as
The Baseball Diet Is Proving To Be A Heavy Favorite For Shedding Pounds In 2015 [SEP] Hal Weafer // several clubs. He retired as a player after 1933 and became a minor league umpire. He worked in the Bi-State League in 1935, the International League from 1936 to 1937, and the American Association from 1938 to 1942. After the president of the American Association suggested that Weafer lose 15-20 pounds for a promotion to MLB umpiring, he began dieting and chopping down Christmas trees. He slimmed down from 220 pounds to 170 pounds. He received his major league opportunity in September 1942. He remained an AL umpire until 1947. After his MLB umpiring days, Weafer served as an umpire
The Baseball Diet Is Proving To Be A Heavy Favorite For Shedding Pounds In 2015 [SEP] Lance Lynn // the NLCS against the San Francisco Giants, in which the Cardinals held a 3–1 series lead. However, he gave up four runs in IP as the Cardinals eventually lost the series. The right-hander made a conscious effort to change his eating and conditioning habits to reach 200 IP in 2013. He showed up to ST weighing 239 pounds, about 41 pounds lighter than his last start in the 2012 NLCS. As a result, his teammates needled him with jokes, such as "Where's your other half?" from Adam Wainwright and "Who's the new guy?" from two others. He reached his season
The Baseball Diet Is Proving To Be A Heavy Favorite For Shedding Pounds In 2015 [SEP] Major League Eating: The Game // game based entirely on eating, but it is actually surprisingly fun to virtually scarf down quantities of food so large that the average human body would most likely not be able to digest." Major League Eating: The Game Major League Eating: The Game is a video game for WiiWare developed by Sensory Sweep Studios, and produced by Mastiff. The first video game to be based on competitive eating, it was released in North America on July 14, 2008, and in Japan on March 24, 2009. Based on competitive eating contests held by Major League Eating, the game features eleven competitive
Early breast cancers may need less lymph node surgery [SEP] Lumpectomy // therapy" was a real possibility. After a lumpectomy is performed for DCIS, local radiation therapy is typically performed to help eliminate microscopic-level disease. Axillary sentinel lymph node biopsy, as a method of screening for metastatic disease in otherwise non-invasive DCIS, is falling out of favor because the risks of procedure outweigh any effect on outcomes. For DCIS, chemotherapy is not recommended, but tamoxifen may be recommended for tumors which contain an abundance of estrogen receptors. For patients with invasive ductal carcinoma who have lumpectomies, lymph node biopsy and radiation therapy are usually recommended. Adjuvant chemotherapy is often recommended, but it
Early breast cancers may need less lymph node surgery [SEP] Breast cancer management // (removal of the lump only), a mastectomy, or a modified radical mastectomy. Lymph nodes are often included in the scope of breast tumor removal. Surgery can be performed before or after receiving systemic therapy. Lumpectomy techniques are increasingly utilized for breast-conservation cancer surgery. Studies indicate that for patients with a single tumor smaller than 4 cm, a lumpectomy with negative surgical margins may be as effective as a mastectomy. Prior to a lumpectomy, a needle-localization of the lesion with placement of a guidewire may be performed, sometimes by an interventional radiologist if the area being removed was detected by mammography
Early breast cancers may need less lymph node surgery [SEP] Breast cancer // tissue. One or more lymph nodes may be biopsied during the surgery; increasingly the lymph node sampling is performed by a sentinel lymph node biopsy. Standard surgeries include: Once the tumor has been removed, if the person desires, breast reconstruction surgery, a type of plastic surgery, may then be performed to improve the aesthetic appearance of the treated site. Alternatively, women use breast prostheses to simulate a breast under clothing, or choose a flat chest. Nipple prosthesis can be used at any time following the mastectomy. Drugs used after and in addition to surgery are called adjuvant therapy. Chemotherapy or
Early breast cancers may need less lymph node surgery [SEP] Breast cancer awareness // of lymph nodes during mastectomy, the more limited approach of sentinel node biopsy was developed. Advocacy efforts also led to the formal recommendation against the routine use of the Halsted radical mastectomy in favor of simple mastectomies and lumpectomies . The breast cancer movement has supported practical, educational, emotional, and financial care for women with breast cancer. Support groups, individual counseling opportunities, and other resources are made available to patients. Supporting breast cancer was seen as a distinctively pro-woman stance popular among public official. This has resulted in better access to care. For example, in much of the United States,
Early breast cancers may need less lymph node surgery [SEP] Breast cancer // operation for breast cancer. Radiation can also be given at the time of operation on the breast cancer. Radiation can reduce the risk of recurrence by 50–66% (1/2 – 2/3 reduction of risk) when delivered in the correct dose and is considered essential when breast cancer is treated by removing only the lump (Lumpectomy or Wide local excision). The stage of the breast cancer is the most important component of traditional classification methods of breast cancer, because it has a greater effect on the prognosis than the other considerations. Staging takes into consideration size, local involvement, lymph node status and
Early breast cancers may need less lymph node surgery [SEP] Vulvar cancer // cases when disease has spread to the lymph nodes and/or pelvis. It may be performed before or after surgery. Chemotherapy is not usually used as primary treatment but may be used in advanced cases with spread to the bones, liver or lungs. It may also be given at a lower dose together with radiation therapy. Women with vulvar cancer should have routine follow-up and exams with their oncologist, often every 3 months for the first 2–3 years after treatment. They should not have routine surveillance imaging to monitor the cancer unless new symptoms appear or tumor markers begin rising. Imaging
Early breast cancers may need less lymph node surgery [SEP] Inguinofemoral lymphadenectomy // Inguinofemoral lymphadenectomy An inuinofemoral lymphadenectomy is one surgical treatment to remove inguinofemoral lymph node metastases involving at least three lymph nodes. Because gynecological cancers metastasize to the inguinofemoral lymph nodes this is the area of most concern for initial treatment. The malignancy spreads from the lymph node to the vulva, clitoris, and Bartholin glands, but the removal of the lymph nodes has a higher priority over the immediate removal of a small, localized tumor. Complications can arise and include: delayed wound healing, development of lymphoceles, bleeding, blood clot formation, and decreased sensation on the inside of the thigh probably caused
Early breast cancers may need less lymph node surgery [SEP] Lymph node // is known as primary lymphedema. Secondary lymphedema usually results from the removal of lymph nodes during breast cancer surgery or from other damaging treatments such as radiation. It can also be caused by some parasitic infections. Affected tissues are at a great risk of infection. Lymph nodes can be affected by both primary cancers of lymph tissue, and secondary cancers affecting other parts of the body. Primary cancers of lymph tissue are called lymphomas and include Hodgkin lymphoma and non-Hodgkin lymphoma. Cancer of lymph nodes can cause a wide range of symptoms from painless long-term slowly growing swelling to sudden,
Early breast cancers may need less lymph node surgery [SEP] Lymphadenectomy // differentiated thyroid cancer, breast cancer, lung cancer, gastric cancer and colorectal cancer. Famed British surgeon Berkeley Moynihan once remarked that "the surgery of cancer is not the surgery of organs; it is the surgery of the lymphatic system". The better-known examples of lymphadenectomy are "axillary lymph node dissection" for breast cancer; "radical neck dissection" for head and neck cancer and thyroid cancer; "D2 lymphadenectomy" for gastric cancer; and "total mesorectal excision" for rectal cancer. For clinical stages I and II breast cancer, axillary lymph node dissection should only be performed after first attempting sentinel node biopsy. Sentinel node biopsy can
Early breast cancers may need less lymph node surgery [SEP] Medullary thyroid cancer // at least several times a year. Risks of surgery include loss of vocal control, irreparable nerve damage, death or the need for second operation to clean out residual diseased lymph nodes left behind if the sentinel node biopsy was positive for cancerous spread. Extensive surgery can be effective when the condition is detected early, but a risk for recurrence remains, particularly in patients with multiple positive lymph nodes or extracapsular invasion. About half of patients have metastasis to regional lymph nodes at the time of diagnosis. The European Society of Endocrine Surgeons has published recommendations for managing this condition in
Using the "African method" of sitting over a steaming cooking pot can help you avoid contracting COVID-19. [SEP] Thermal cooking // dish. Some foods, such as kidney beans, fava beans, and many other varieties of beans contain a toxin, phytohaemagglutinin, that requires boiling at 100 °C for at least 10 minutes to break down to safe levels. The best practice is to bring briefly to a rolling boil then put the pot in the flask. This keeps it hottest longest. With big chunks of food, boil a little longer before putting into the flask. Variants of thermal cooking, though a better name would be "heat retention" cooking: A different kind of vacuum cooker is used in the candy manufacturing industry to
Using the "African method" of sitting over a steaming cooking pot can help you avoid contracting COVID-19. [SEP] Outdoor cooking // alternative is the use of a metal thread or mesh fire basket. This allows continued airflow through the fire while providing optimal heat. The one down side to this form of cooking is that the pots will become blackened with soot and ash, which can be difficult to scrub off. The ash and soot build up can be easily avoided by applying a thin layer of dish soap (preferably biodegradable) to the outside of the pot before cooking. The ash and soot will stick to the soap which is then easily rinsed off later. Steaming is possible with plants such
Using the "African method" of sitting over a steaming cooking pot can help you avoid contracting COVID-19. [SEP] Vaginal steaming // is not necessary. The marketing and perception of vaginal steaming falls within a mix of ideologies including post-feminist, new age, and inherently sexist notions in which the female body is on the one hand a dirty, defective thing, yet one that a woman can "optimize" to become "goddess-like". Vaginal steaming Vaginal steaming, sometimes shortened to V-steaming, and also known as yoni steaming, is an alternative health treatment whereby a woman squats or sits over steaming water containing herbs such as mugwort, rosemary, wormwood, and basil. It has been practiced in Africa (Mozambique, South Africa), Asia (Indonesia, Thailand), and Central America
Using the "African method" of sitting over a steaming cooking pot can help you avoid contracting COVID-19. [SEP] Vaginal steaming // Vaginal steaming Vaginal steaming, sometimes shortened to V-steaming, and also known as yoni steaming, is an alternative health treatment whereby a woman squats or sits over steaming water containing herbs such as mugwort, rosemary, wormwood, and basil. It has been practiced in Africa (Mozambique, South Africa), Asia (Indonesia, Thailand), and Central America (among the Q'eqchi' people). It has become a fad for women in the Western world. It is described in spas as an ancient Korean treatment for reproductive organ ailments and is claimed to have other benefits. There is no empirical evidence supporting any of these claims. According to
Using the "African method" of sitting over a steaming cooking pot can help you avoid contracting COVID-19. [SEP] Vaginal steaming // a study on vaginal practices by the World Health Organization published in 2011, one of the ways in which women practice vaginal care is by "Vaginal steaming or smoking: the 'steaming' or 'smoking' of the vagina, by sitting above a source of heat (fire, coals, hot rocks) on which water, herbs, or oils are placed to create steam or smoke". For that study, over 4,000 women in Tete (Mozambique), KwaZulu-Natal (South Africa), Yogyakarta (Indonesia), and Chonburi (Thailand) were asked about their vaginal care. When it came to vaginal steaming/smoking, very different results were obtained, and very different reasons were given:
Using the "African method" of sitting over a steaming cooking pot can help you avoid contracting COVID-19. [SEP] Steaming // preferring to avoid additional fat intake may prefer steaming to methods which require cooking oil. A 2007 USDA comparison between steaming and boiling vegetables shows the most affected nutrients are folic acid and vitamin C. When compared to raw consumption, steaming reduces folic acid by 15%, and boiling reduces it by 35%. Steaming reduces vitamin C by 15%, and boiling reduces it by 25%. Steaming, compared to boiling, showed 42% higher amount of glucosinolates in broccoli cooked for medium firmness. Phenolic compounds with antioxidant properties have been found to retain significantly better through steaming than through boiling or microwaving. Steaming
Using the "African method" of sitting over a steaming cooking pot can help you avoid contracting COVID-19. [SEP] Couscous // Africans use a food steamer (called a"Taseksut" in Berber, a "kiskas" in Arabic or a "couscoussier" in French). The base is a tall metal pot shaped rather like an oil jar in which the meat and vegetables are cooked as a stew. On top of the base, a steamer sits where the couscous is cooked, absorbing the flavours from the stew. The lid to the steamer has holes around its edge so steam can escape. It is also possible to use a pot with a steamer insert. If the holes are too big, the steamer can be lined with damp
Using the "African method" of sitting over a steaming cooking pot can help you avoid contracting COVID-19. [SEP] Cassava-based dishes // and roasted groundnut (peanut) to taste, and add evaporated milk if one desires. "Garri" soakings prepared with coconut water are also popular. In the Democratic Republic of the Congo, the leaves are washed with hot water, pounded in a mortar, and boiled. In the boiling process, the pot is not covered, which facilitates the escape of the toxin, hydrogen cyanide. It is covered when ingredients such as oil, onion, fish, etc. are added, and opened as needed for stirring. The sauce eaten with rice, plantain or cassava paste is called "mpondu" in Lingala, "sombe" in Swahili or "sakasaka" in Kikongo.
Using the "African method" of sitting over a steaming cooking pot can help you avoid contracting COVID-19. [SEP] Traditional African medicine // practitioners use a wide variety of treatments ranging from "magic" to biomedical methods such as fasting and dieting, herbal therapies, bathing, massage, and surgical procedures. Migraines, coughs, abscesses, and pleurisy are often treated using the method of "bleed-cupping" after which an herbal ointment is applied with follow-up herbal drugs. Animals are also sometimes used to transfer the illness to afterward. Some cultures also rub hot herbal ointment across the patient's eyelids to cure headaches. Malaria is treated by both drinking and using the steam from an herbal mixture. Fevers are often treated using a steam bath. Also, vomiting is induced,
Using the "African method" of sitting over a steaming cooking pot can help you avoid contracting COVID-19. [SEP] Steaming // shrimp, ginkgo nuts, kamaboko and mitsuba) into a bowl with a lid. Glutinous rice. Instead of boiling, glutinous rice is steamed to eat. *Okowa as it is called, receipts with ingredients and vessel chestnuts (kuri okowa) or wild herbs (sansai okowa) are popular. There are receipts where sauce is added to the main ingredients, aiming to control smell or aroma, or keep moisture to the ingredients. Receipts named after the container. Sweets: steaming is an important process in Japanese sweets making such as manjū, yōkan, uirō, karukan or suama. Overcooking or burning food is easily avoided when steaming it. Individuals
Second man arrested in probe of Mac Miller’s overdose death. [SEP] Mac Miller // arrived at his home. Miller was taken into custody and released on $15,000 bail. Miller died of a drug overdose in his Studio City home on September 7, 2018. He was found unresponsive around noon that day, after a friend called for an "immediate dispatch" for a man in cardiac arrest, according to a 911 call. Miller was pronounced dead at the scene upon arrival of authorities. He was scheduled for a video shoot on the day of his death. An autopsy was done, but the cause of death was not officially released by his family members. On September 11
Second man arrested in probe of Mac Miller’s overdose death. [SEP] Mac Miller // thousands of fans held a vigil in honour of the late rapper at Pittsburgh’s Blue Slide Park in respect to Miller’s 2011 debut album of the same name. Miller was buried at Homewood Cemetery in his hometown of Pittsburgh, in a Jewish funeral. On November 5, 2018, the L.A. County Coroner’s office announced Miller died from an accidental drug overdose due to a "mixed drug toxicity" of fentanyl, alcohol, and cocaine. Studio albums Mixtapes EP's Mac Miller Malcolm James McCormick (January 19, 1992 – September 7, 2018), known professionally as Mac Miller, was an American rapper, singer, and record producer.
Second man arrested in probe of Mac Miller’s overdose death. [SEP] Mac (rapper) // show that resulted in Phipps allegedly shooting 19-year-old Barron C Victor, Jr. after Victor attempted to break up the fight. Phipps was arrested and charged with second-degree murder, and was convicted of manslaughter and sentenced to thirty years to life in prison on September 21, 2001. He is currently serving his sentence at the Elayn Hunt Correctional Center in Louisiana. In December 2014, Northwestern University's Medill Justice Project (MJP), in partnership with The Lens, published the results of a three-month investigation of Phipps' conviction, revealing that a key eyewitness at his trial gave his private investigator an affidavit in 2013
Second man arrested in probe of Mac Miller’s overdose death. [SEP] University of Massachusetts Amherst // Logan, who died from a heroin overdose after working as a confidential informant for the UMass police department. After UMass police arrested Logan for selling LSD, he was offered the opportunity to work as a confidential informant in exchange for his freedom. UMass police did not suspect he was using drugs like heroin. Soon after the Globe's story was published, Chancellor Kumble Subbaswammy suspended the use of the program and required UMass Police to report to the Vice Chancellor of Student Affairs and Campus Life instead of the Vice Chancellor for Administration and Finance. Applications to the school have more
Second man arrested in probe of Mac Miller’s overdose death. [SEP] Death of Freddie Gray // 2016, all charges against him were dropped. The driver of the van. He was charged with second-degree depraved heart murder; involuntary manslaughter; second-degree assault; manslaughter by vehicle (gross negligence); manslaughter by vehicle (criminal negligence); and misconduct in office. He posted a 350,000 bail. The grand jury indicted Goodson on all charges and added an indictment of reckless endangerment. Officer Goodson was found not guilty on all charges by Circuit Judge Barry Williams on June 23, 2016. The officers who caught Gray after he fled, and, after apprehending him, handcuffed Gray with his arms behind his back. Miller was charged with
Second man arrested in probe of Mac Miller’s overdose death. [SEP] Murder of Michele MacNeill // her prescribed medication and fallen into the bathtub and drowned. The jury deliberated for 11 hours and on November 9, 2013, found MacNeill guilty of the first degree murder of his wife, Michele, on April 11, 2007. He was also convicted by the Provo, Utah, jury of obstruction of justice for hindering the investigation of his wife's murder by attempting to make Michele's death appear accidental. The murder conviction carries a term of fifteen years to life, with an additional 1–15 years for obstruction. On December 6, 2013, it was reported that he had attempted suicide while in jail. In
Second man arrested in probe of Mac Miller’s overdose death. [SEP] Haley Paige // of murder, but he was released on August 24 with no charges filed. "Adult Video News" reported that there was a "circulated rumor that Haley died of a heroin overdose." A spokesman for the Monterey County Coroner's Office stated that Paige did not have any track marks. Sgt. Steve Miller disclosed that Hwang was "implicated" in her death. The toxicology screen later came back negative for everything but a minimal amount of methadone. According to the Monterey County Sheriff's Coroner Division (who prepared her autopsy report), the cause of death was undetermined, but even a small amount of methadone could
Second man arrested in probe of Mac Miller’s overdose death. [SEP] Murder of Michele MacNeill // MacNeill's defense team included Randall Spencer and Susanne Gustin. In his closing statement to the jury, Grunander stated, "It was an almost perfect murder, [MacNeill] pumped her full of drugs that he knew would be difficult to detect once she was dead." During the trial, a previous mistress of Martin MacNeill testified that MacNeill had stated that there was a way to kill a person that would appear to be a natural heart attack. Fellow inmates claimed that MacNeill had claimed he killed his wife, but it could not be proven. The defense claimed that Michele MacNeill had overdosed on
Second man arrested in probe of Mac Miller’s overdose death. [SEP] David Milgaard // Don Morgan, released the findings of the Milgaard inquiry. Among its recommendations were a call for the federal government to create an independent body to review allegations of wrongful conviction. The report noted that if such a body had existed, Milgaard might have been released from jail years before he was. Linda Fisher, ex-wife of Larry Fisher, visited the Saskatoon police department in 1980. She told the police that she believed her former husband had likely killed Miller. The Saskatoon police department did not follow up on her statement. The inquiry report released by MacCallum states that "[w]hile MacCallum noted
Second man arrested in probe of Mac Miller’s overdose death. [SEP] Murder of Diana Miller // chased them down in a recorded high-speed pursuit which resulted in a violent crash. One of the suspects was ejected from the vehicle during the crash and became pinned and trapped under the van. The robber who was identified as the shooter and killer of Diana Miller, Renaldo McGirth, was sentenced to death for the crime two years later, becoming the youngest person on death row in Florida at the time. Sheila Miller, the daughter of Diana and James Miller, had a long term problem with alcohol and drug abuse. In 1989, she was arrested for drug possession. Just prior
Facebook post says Joe Biden has said 150 million Americans died from guns and another 120 million from COVID-19 [SEP] Gun violence in the United States // owners possessed approximately 192 million firearms, of which an estimated 65 million were handguns. A National Survey on Private Ownership and Use of Firearms (NSPOF), conducted in 1994, indicated that Americans owned 192 million guns: 36% rifles, 34% handguns, 26% shotguns, and 4% other types of long guns. Most firearm owners owned multiple firearms, with the NSPOF survey indicating 25% of adults owned firearms. In the U.S., 11% of households reported actively being involved in hunting, with the remaining firearm owners having guns for self-protection and other reasons. Throughout the 1970s and much of the 1980s, the rate of gun
Facebook post says Joe Biden has said 150 million Americans died from guns and another 120 million from COVID-19 [SEP] Gun politics in the United States // gun homicides per capita. A U.S. male aged 15–24 is 70 times more likely to be killed with a gun than their counterpart in the eight (G-8) largest industrialized nations in the world (United Kingdom, France, Germany, Japan, Canada, Italy, Russia). In 2015, there were 33,636 deaths due to firearms, and some claim as many as 372 mass shootings, in the U.S, while guns were used to kill about 50 people in the U.K. However, using the FBI definition of a "mass shooting" there were only 4 in the U.S. in 2015. More people are typically killed with guns in
Facebook post says Joe Biden has said 150 million Americans died from guns and another 120 million from COVID-19 [SEP] Million Mom March // its use of statistics on child gun casualties with individuals and organizations on both sides of the gun debate either verifying or criticizing the group's data. In 2004, Wendy McElroy estimated that only 5,732 children under the age of 17 died in gun related deaths, "or roughly 40 percent of what MMM asserts." An investigation by "The New York Times" reported that the incidence of accidental child firearm deaths occur "roughly twice as often as the records indicate" due to idiosyncrasies in how authorities in various states classify these incidents. The report also asserted that the National Rifle Association and
Facebook post says Joe Biden has said 150 million Americans died from guns and another 120 million from COVID-19 [SEP] Gun violence in the United States // homicides in the US, with 6,371 of those attributed to handguns. In 2012, 64% of all gun-related deaths in the U.S. were suicides. In 2010, there were 19,392 firearm-related suicides, and 11,078 firearm-related homicides in the U.S. In 2010, 358 murders were reported involving a rifle while 6,009 were reported involving a handgun; another 1,939 were reported with an unspecified type of firearm. Firearms were used to kill 13,286 people in the U.S. in 2015, excluding suicide. Approximately 1.4 million people have died from firearms in the U.S. between 1968 and 2011. This number includes all deaths resulting from a
Facebook post says Joe Biden has said 150 million Americans died from guns and another 120 million from COVID-19 [SEP] Gun violence // to kill 13,286 people in the U.S. in 2015, excluding suicide. Approximately 1.4 million people have been killed using firearms in the U.S. between 1968 and 2011, equivalent to a top 10th largest U.S. city in 2016, falling between the populations of San Antonio and Dallas, Texas. Compared to 22 other high-income nations, the U.S. gun-related murder rate is 25 times higher. Although it has half the population of the other 22 nations combined, the U.S. had 82 percent of all gun deaths, 90 percent of all women killed with guns, 91 percent of children under 14 and 92 percent
Facebook post says Joe Biden has said 150 million Americans died from guns and another 120 million from COVID-19 [SEP] Gun ownership // Americans bought 25.2 million guns, that's 2.5 million more guns than possessed by every law enforcement agency in the world put together. Between 2012 and 2017, U.S. civilians bought 135 million guns, that's 2 million more guns than the combined stockpile of all the world's armed forces. Some studies suggest that higher rates of gun ownership are associated with higher homicide rates, although Gary Kleck argues that the highest-quality studies show that gun ownership does not increase homicide rates. Higher rates of gun ownership are also associated with higher suicide rates and higher accidental gun death rates. The availability of
Facebook post says Joe Biden has said 150 million Americans died from guns and another 120 million from COVID-19 [SEP] Gun violence in the United States // violence on public health, Congress has prohibited the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) from conducting research that advocates in favor of gun control. The CDC has interpreted this ban to extend to all research on gun violence prevention, and so has not funded any research on this subject since 1996. The Congressional Research Service in 2009 estimated there were 310 million firearms in the U.S., not including weapons owned by the military. Of these, 114 million were handguns, 110 million were rifles, and 86 million were shotguns. In that same year, the Census bureau stated the population of people in
Facebook post says Joe Biden has said 150 million Americans died from guns and another 120 million from COVID-19 [SEP] Gun violence in the United States // shootings in the United States so far that year. In August 2015, "The Washington Post" reported that the United States was averaging one mass shooting per day. An earlier report had indicated that in 2015 alone, there had been 294 mass shootings that killed or injured 1,464 people. However, an article from "Russia Today" stated that 42 percent of the incidents involved zero deaths, and 29 percent one death. Shooting Tracker and Mass Shooting Tracker, the two sites that the media have been citing, have been criticized for using a criterion much more inclusive than that used by the government—they
Facebook post says Joe Biden has said 150 million Americans died from guns and another 120 million from COVID-19 [SEP] Gun violence in the United States // 1996, has a firearm death rate of 0.86 per 100,000, and in the United Kingdom the rate is 0.26. In the year of 2014, there were a total of 8,124 gun homicides in the U.S. In 2015, there were 33,636 deaths due to firearms in the U.S, with homicides accounting for 13,286 of those, while guns were used to kill about 50 people in the U.K., a country with population one fifth of the size of the U.S. population More people are typically killed with guns in the U.S. in a day (about 85) than in the U.K. in a
Facebook post says Joe Biden has said 150 million Americans died from guns and another 120 million from COVID-19 [SEP] Reactions to the Orlando nightclub shooting // to those affected, including presidential candidates, members of Congress and other U.S. political figures, foreign leaders and various celebrities. On June 13, singer Richard Marx posted an image to his Facebook page that read "We should demand more of our elected officials rather than their fucking thoughts and prayers". He wrote on Twitter: "every one of the 60 members of the Senate who voted against the Assault Weapons Ban in 2013 and defeated it has blood on their hands". Commentators Steven Crowder, Mark Hemingway of the "Weekly Standard", and Sebastian Gorka of Marine Corps University, assigned responsibility for the attack
Adam Hasner Says George LeMieux "even compared Marco Rubio to Barack Obama. [SEP] George LeMieux // S&P." LeMieux was involved in the high-profile blockage of President Barack Obama's nominee for U.S. Ambassador to Brazil, Thomas Shannon, who was eventually confirmed. During his time in the Senate, LeMieux was recognized for his record on pro-business and tax reform. He has received several awards including a 93% rating from the National Taxpayer Union and the "Spirit of Enterprise" award from the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. On April 15, 2011, LeMieux announced his candidacy for the United States Senate seat held by Bill Nelson. While running for the seat, LeMieux campaigned on a platform of fiscal responsibility until announcing
Adam Hasner Says George LeMieux "even compared Marco Rubio to Barack Obama. [SEP] George LeMieux // George LeMieux George Stephen LeMieux (; born May 21, 1969) is an American politician who was a United States Senator from Florida from 2009 to 2011. He is chairman of the Florida-based law firm of Gunster Yoakley & Stewart and was chief of staff to Governor Charlie Crist. He was the Deputy Florida Attorney General and is credited with spearheading Crist's successful campaign for governor. On August 28, 2009, Crist announced he would appoint LeMieux as U.S. Senator to replace Mel Martínez, who weeks earlier had announced he would resign as soon as Crist announced his successor. On April 5,
Adam Hasner Says George LeMieux "even compared Marco Rubio to Barack Obama. [SEP] George LeMieux // Magazine", and 20 People on the Fast Track by "Fast Track Magazine". LeMieux received the "Pollie" award from the American Association of Political Consultants as the nation's "MVP" in a Republican campaign for 2006. LeMieux served as the Executive Director of the Crist/Kottkamp transition team, and went on to lead the Executive Office of the Governor as the Governor's Chief of Staff in 2007. He married on October 28, 2000; he and his wife have three sons named Max, Taylor and Chase as well as one daughter named Madeleine. George LeMieux George Stephen LeMieux (; born May 21, 1969) is
Adam Hasner Says George LeMieux "even compared Marco Rubio to Barack Obama. [SEP] Marco Rubio 2016 presidential campaign // an average of 16%. This placed him in second place, behind Trump. At the New Hampshire debate on February 6, 2016, Rubio was criticized by Christie for repeating memorized speeches, to which Rubio replied by repeating four times a statement to the effect that President Obama was destroying America. Rubio defended these remarks the following day, saying with respect to the statement that Obama "knows exactly what he's doing" that "It's what I believe and it's what I'm going to continue to say, because it happens to be one of the main reasons why I am running." Rubio came in
Adam Hasner Says George LeMieux "even compared Marco Rubio to Barack Obama. [SEP] Marco Antonio Rubio // in his hometown against the Mexican veteran. During the first five rounds Lemieux dominated Rubio by landing hard power punches. But Rubio refused to quit and wouldn't go down. Rubio came back in round six and started to land harder punches that slowed down Lemieux. In the seventh round Rubio knocked down Lemieux. Lemieux got up, but Rubio continued where he left off and threw more punches at him. With only seconds left in round seven, Lemieux's corner threw in the towel to a stop the fight. Since he won the Lemieux fight, Rubio placed himself into a mandatory position
Adam Hasner Says George LeMieux "even compared Marco Rubio to Barack Obama. [SEP] Marco Rubio // second among potential 2016 Republican presidential candidates in an online poll of likely voters conducted by Zogby Analytics in January 2015. In January 2015, it was reported that Rubio had begun contacting top donors and appointing advisors for a potential 2016 run, including George Seay, who previously worked on such campaigns as Rick Perry's in 2012 and Mitt Romney's in 2008, and Jim Rubright, who had previously worked for Jeb Bush, Mitt Romney, and John McCain. Rubio also instructed his aides to "prepare for a presidential campaign" prior to a Team Marco 2016 fundraising meeting in South Beach. On April
Adam Hasner Says George LeMieux "even compared Marco Rubio to Barack Obama. [SEP] Marco Rubio // an adjunct professor at FIU, he agreed to raise most of the funding for his position from private sources. On May 5, 2009, Rubio announced on his website that he planned to run for the United States Senate seat being vacated by Mel Martínez, who had announced that he would not seek reelection. Martinez subsequently announced (in August 2009) that he would resign before completing his term, and upon his resignation was replaced by George LeMieux. Prior to making his May 5, 2009 announcement, Rubio had been meeting with fundraisers and supporters throughout the state. Initially trailing by double-digits in
Adam Hasner Says George LeMieux "even compared Marco Rubio to Barack Obama. [SEP] Marco Rubio 2016 presidential campaign // With Walker out of the race, Rubio was widely viewed as the next likeliest candidate who best matched this criteria. The Rubio campaign was even reported as hiring up to nine of Walker's former top staffers less than 24 hours after his exit. Matt Lewis has commented that, "Democrats should fear Marco Rubio", who Lewis saw as "heralding a generational shift" for Republicans. Rubio, along with Paul Ryan and his recent ascension to the House Speakership, Lewis says, means "both men will be attacked for their youth and energy", adding: "But it’s hard to look at this strong and diverse
Adam Hasner Says George LeMieux "even compared Marco Rubio to Barack Obama. [SEP] Marco Rubio 2016 presidential campaign // "the perfect antithesis" to Hillary Clinton. Krauthammer draws an analogy with John Kennedy's presidential campaign: "When Kennedy ran in 1960, Nixon was about his age, but he basically ran against Eisenhower. He talked about the new and the new frontier... Remember what he said in his inaugural address? ...Kennedy said 'the torch has been passed to a new generation'. I think the generational contrast is huge. I think the baggage contrast is huge." The November 2015 Paris attacks were widely seen as altering the narrative of the 2016 presidential primaries, and in particular gave a boost to Rubio for his
Adam Hasner Says George LeMieux "even compared Marco Rubio to Barack Obama. [SEP] Marco Rubio 2016 presidential campaign // an ad claiming that Rubio had both missed a classified meeting the previous month after the Paris attacks and "missed more total votes than any other senator". On January 7, Rubio defended his record by arguing that votes were "precooked" and votes were used to "make a statement." Rubio participated in the January 28 Fox News debate, charging Cruz with building his campaign on "the lie" stemming from his stance on immigration and insisting in Jeb Bush's book "" that the latter changed his "position on immigration". January 29, during an interview the following day, Rubio was confident about his
Fiancee sues over principal’s death in bone marrow procedure. [SEP] Grant County, Georgia // to eventually buy into a partnership. But he's not helping his chances by always stealing other people's sodas, frozen dinners, and ice cream bars out of the office refrigerator. Jimmy Powell - One of Sara's patients, he is diagnosed with myeloblastic leukemia when he is only 12 years old. Over the course of the series, Sara is tortured by his agonizing demise, and when he finally dies, his now divorced parents instigate the type of specious lawsuit so common to today's litigious society. The parents of many of Sara's other patients, smelling blood in the water, join in, forcing the
Fiancee sues over principal’s death in bone marrow procedure. [SEP] R (B) v Cambridge Health Authority // agreed, changed tack, did not provide a second bone marrow transplant, and did an experimental treatment called donor lymphocyte infusion. Jaymee died after a few months. R (B) v Cambridge Health Authority R (B) v Cambridge Health Authority [1995] EWCA Civ 43 is a UK enterprise law case, concerning health care in the UK. The parents of a child named Jaymee Bowen claimed that she should receive chemotherapy and a second bone marrow transplant for their 10 year old’s acute myeloid leukaemia. Consultants at Addenbrooke's Hospital, Cambridge, and Royal Marsden Hospital in London thought it would not succeed. Treatment in
Fiancee sues over principal’s death in bone marrow procedure. [SEP] McFall v. Shimp // McFall v. Shimp McFall v. Shimp, 10 Pa. D. & C. 3d 90 (July 26, 1978) was an Allegheny County, Pennsylvania, court case. The court ruled that it is unacceptable to force another person to donate body parts, even in a situation of medical necessity. Thirty-nine-year-old unmarried asbestos worker Robert McFall suffered "from a rare bone marrow disease" called aplastic anemia, where the patient's bone marrow fails to manufacture certain necessary blood components. Without an urgent bone marrow transfusion, McFall would soon die. McFall's first cousin, a 42-year-old crane worker named David Shimp, was the only available bone marrow match
Fiancee sues over principal’s death in bone marrow procedure. [SEP] McFall v. Shimp // for McFall at the time, but Shimp refused to donate his bone marrow, which would have dramatically increased the odds of saving McFall's life (with Shimp's bone marrow donation, doctors estimated that McFall would have had a 50% to 60% chance of surviving). McFall then sued Shimp in order to force him to donate his bone marrow. When the case ended up in court, Judge John P. Flaherty Jr. stated that Shimp's position was "morally indefensible," but simultaneously refused to force Shimp to donate his bone marrow. Judge Flaherty also stated that forcing a person to submit to an intrusion
Fiancee sues over principal’s death in bone marrow procedure. [SEP] United Kingdom enterprise law // require litigation, and substantial sums of money go to lawyers, instead of the person who is harmed and withdraws resources for other NHS patients. Third, challenges can be brought over the refusal to provide treatment, although they are unlikely to succeed. For instance, in "R (B) v Cambridge Health Authority" parents claimed their 11-year-old girl should receive a second bone marrow transplant for myeloid leukemia, even though doctors said success was 20% likely and would cause "considerable suffering". "The Sun" and "The Daily Mail" said the boy was being ‘Condemned by Bank Balance’ and ‘Sentenced to Death’ by the NHS.
Fiancee sues over principal’s death in bone marrow procedure. [SEP] Doe v. Bolton // law in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Georgia. The anonymous plaintiff has since been identified as Sandra Cano, a 22-year-old mother of three who was nine weeks pregnant at the time the lawsuit was filed. Cano, who died in 2014, described herself as pro-life and claimed her attorney, Margie Pitts Hames, lied to her in order to have a plaintiff. On October 14, 1970, a three-judge panel of the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Georgia consisting of Northern District of Georgia Judges Albert John Henderson, Sidney Oslin Smith Jr., and Fifth Circuit
Fiancee sues over principal’s death in bone marrow procedure. [SEP] The Problem with a Poo // Principal that their affair was a mistake, and that she wishes to break up with him. PC Principal, despite his concerns over whether this is possible, reluctantly agrees, and the two organize a school assembly on in vitro fertilization in order to stave off speculation that Strong Woman became pregnant through sex or any other questions over the father of her children. She gives birth to quintuplets who turn out to be highly politically correct (PC) and bear a strong resemblance to PC Principal, but she refuses to acknowledge that he is the children's father. PC Principal, not being able
Fiancee sues over principal’s death in bone marrow procedure. [SEP] High-dose chemotherapy and bone marrow transplant // herself and receiving the treatment regime, Fox died on April 22, 1993. Mark Hiepler sought damages from Health Net for delaying his sister's treatment. On December 28, Fox's family was awarded $89 million by a Californian jury, including $12.1 for bad faith and reckless infliction of emotional distress, and $77 million in punitive damages. "Jim Fox and the estate of Nelene Fox v. Health Net" is considered a watershed case in that most health insurers subsequently began approving HDC/BMT for advanced breast cancer. Between 1988 and 2002, 86 cases were filed to force HMOs to pay for transplants, of which
Fiancee sues over principal’s death in bone marrow procedure. [SEP] Killing of Henry Marrow // Larry fired a single bullet from the .22 rifle into Marrow's head. At trial, Oakley testified that he had held the gun that fired the killing shot, and that it discharged accidentally when his stepfather had jarred his shoulder. Chavis testified that Larry Teel shot Marrow. The Teels locked up their shop and left for home, while Boo Chavis, his brother Jimmy, and Webb collected Marrow, still living, and took him to Granville County Hospital. After doctors were unable to stabilize him, Marrow was taken from Granville to Duke University Medical Center; he died on the way there. The Marrow
Fiancee sues over principal’s death in bone marrow procedure. [SEP] Vicki Morgan // with terminal cancer. He purportedly told Morgan that he had only two months to live and assured her she would be well cared for and never have to worry about money again. He died two days later. The financial situation for the 30-year-old Morgan quickly turned desperate. To protect herself, she hired the famous Hollywood palimony attorney Marvin Mitchelson to file an $11 million lawsuit ($ million today) for financial compensation as Bloomingdale's mistress. The pre-trial media coverage of the initial complaint revealed details of the couple's sexual relationship that grabbed headlines nationwide, causing particular embarrassment amongst Bloomingdale's friends in
Every day, "about 100 people will be arrested for possession of marijuana in Georgia. [SEP] Cannabis in Georgia (country) // over 100 people are drug tested by Georgian police daily. Following the 2006 strengthening of the drug laws, Georgia collected $11.3 million in drug-related fines in the first year. Beginning in 2013 there were calls from various advocacy groups and opposition politicians to decriminalize cannabis, but the government remained opposed. In October 2015, the Constitutional Court of Georgia ruled that the norm of the country's Constitution about imprisonment for personal use of cannabis was "too strict" and needed to be relaxed. In December 2016, the Court further declared that imprisonment for use of small amounts of cannabis, as well as
Every day, "about 100 people will be arrested for possession of marijuana in Georgia. [SEP] Cannabis in Ohio // grams but less than 200 grams of marijuana is a misdemeanor punishable by up to thirty days in jail and a $250 fine. The FBI's Uniform Crime Reports report that in 2013, 17,000 arrests for marijuana possession were made in Ohio. A 2013 report by the ACLU found that in Ohio, blacks were 4.1 times more likely than whites to be arrested for marijuana possession. In 2015, Issue 3—a ballot initiative to legalize cannabis—was defeated at the polls. Issue 3 (a) would have legalized the sale and use of marijuana by persons aged 21 and older; (b) would have allowed
Every day, "about 100 people will be arrested for possession of marijuana in Georgia. [SEP] Cannabis in Georgia (country) // presence of children. In December 2016 the White Noise Movement held a protest outside the Parliament building calling for decriminalization of drugs, including cannabis. On New Year's Eve of 2016, Girchi Party activists planted cannabis plants in 84 pots in the party's Tbilisi headquarters, in defiance of Georgian drug policy. Georgian police officers arrived and confiscated the plants, but did not charge party members with any criminal offense. On 20 October 2018 Girchi Party activists held the Cannabis Legalization Festival in the downtown of Tbilisi protesting the new aim of Parliament to pass a bill restricting the consumption of cannabis.
Every day, "about 100 people will be arrested for possession of marijuana in Georgia. [SEP] Cannabis in Georgia (country) // Cannabis in Georgia (country) Cannabis in Georgia is legal in terms of its possession and consumption due to a ruling by the Constitutional Court of Georgia on 30 July 2018. Cultivation and sale of cannabis remains illegal. Georgia illegally cultivates some small amounts of cannabis, mostly for local consumption. As of 2005, Georgia also served as a transit route for drugs coming from Central Asia, headed for Russia and Europe. Before Georgia legalized cannabis it had a strict anti-drug policy, under which offenders could have been jailed for up to 14 years. The advocacy group White Noise Movement states that
Every day, "about 100 people will be arrested for possession of marijuana in Georgia. [SEP] Cannabis in Georgia (country) // Cannabis in Georgia (country) Cannabis in Georgia is legal in terms of its possession and consumption due to a ruling by the Constitutional Court of Georgia on 30 July 2018. Cultivation and sale of cannabis remains illegal. Georgia illegally cultivates some small amounts of cannabis, mostly for local consumption. As of 2005, Georgia also served as a transit route for drugs coming from Central Asia, headed for Russia and Europe. Before Georgia legalized cannabis it had a strict anti-drug policy, under which offenders could have been jailed for up to 14 years. The advocacy group White Noise Movement states that
Every day, "about 100 people will be arrested for possession of marijuana in Georgia. [SEP] Cannabis in Maryland // In Maryland, blacks were 2.9 times more likely than whites to be arrested for marijuana possession. In April 2014, Governor Martin O'Malley signed a law that decriminalizes the possession of 10 grams or less of marijuana. The measure made such possession a civil infraction, similar to a traffic ticket. The measure took effect on October 1, 2014. Under the law, people over age 21 "who are accused of having less than 10 grams will have to pay a fine and attend a drug education program." In 2016, the Maryland General Assembly, controlled by Democrats, passed SB 517, which decriminalized the
Every day, "about 100 people will be arrested for possession of marijuana in Georgia. [SEP] Cannabis in the United States // prisons for marijuana-related convictions were convicted of offenses other than simple possession. According to the Federal Bureau of Investigation's annual Uniform Crime Report, there have been over twelve million cannabis arrests in the United States since 1996, including 749,825 persons for marijuana violations in 2012. Of those charged with marijuana violations in 2012, 658,231 (88%) were charged with possession only. The remaining 91,593 individuals were charged with "sale/manufacture", a category that does not differentiate for cultivation offenses, even those where the marijuana was being grown for personal or medical use. Marijuana arrests comprise almost one-half (48.3 percent) of all drug
Every day, "about 100 people will be arrested for possession of marijuana in Georgia. [SEP] Cannabis in Georgia (U.S. state) // state had conducted legal cannabis trials on cancer patients in the 1970s. In the 1970s and 1980s, a number of county sheriffs and deputies were prosecuted for their involvement in the drug trade, including Sheriff John David Davis, a former moonshiner who had been pardoned by President Nixon and was convicted in 1984 of smuggling cannabis into south Georgia. Davis' case parallels that of a number of other former moonshiners who segued into the cannabis trade. In 1983, amidst controversy, the Drug Enforcement Administration conducted aerial spraying of illegal cannabis plots in the Chattahoochee National Forest in northern Georgia, using
Every day, "about 100 people will be arrested for possession of marijuana in Georgia. [SEP] Federal Correctional Institution, Edgefield // Carolina-Georgia border, approximately 25 miles north of Augusta, Georgia. In 2002, a correction officer assigned to FCI Edgefield, whom the Bureau of Prisons did not identify, pleaded guilty and was sentenced on Georgia state charges to three years' incarceration followed by seven years' supervised release for possession with the intent to distribute marijuana. A joint investigation by the Department of Justice Inspector General's Office and the Richmond County Sheriff's Office revealed that the officer took over $9,000 in bribes in exchange for receiving packages containing marijuana and passing them on to inmates. On May 20, 2010, the US Attorney's Office
Every day, "about 100 people will be arrested for possession of marijuana in Georgia. [SEP] Cannabis in Georgia (U.S. state) // Cannabis in Georgia (U.S. state) Cannabis in Georgia is legal for limited medical uses in the form of CBD oil, but illegal for recreational use. In February 1980, a 50-0 Senate vote and a 156-8 House vote passed Mona Taft's bill supporting legal medical marijuana in Georgia for people diagnosed with glaucoma and cancer patients undergoing chemotherapy and radiation. Members from both parties came together to support Taft, including then-state Sen. Paul Broun. According to a Feb. 14, 1980, Knight-Ridder wire report about the bill, Broun hugged Taft when the legislation passed the Senate. The bill's sponsor, Rep. Virlyn Smith,
Routine "recess" a hit at White House obesity summit. [SEP] Recess (song) // 2014, alongside remixes from Flux Pavilion, Milo and Otis, Valentino Khan and Ape Drums. Recess (song) "Recess" is a song by American record producers Skrillex and Kill the Noise, featuring vocals from Fatman Scoop and Passion Pit frontman Michael Angelakos. It was released on March 14, 2014 as part of Skrillex's debut studio album "Recess" (2014). It entered the UK Singles Chart at number 57 after being added to BBC Radio 1's rotation. On May 15, 2014, the song was confirmed as the album's second single. Soon after, a teaser video for the single was released on Skrillex's YouTube channel
Routine "recess" a hit at White House obesity summit. [SEP] Let's Move! // and more physical activity for children. On the same date, Obama signed a presidential memorandum creating the Task Force on Childhood Obesity to review current programs and develop a national action plan. The Task Force reviews policy and programs related to child nutrition and physical activity. It hopes to create change through a national action plan with five goals: The White House Task Force hopes to bring the childhood obesity rate down to five percent by 2030. A song, "Move Your Body", was released to promote the campaign called Let's Move! Flash Workout. The song was by Beyoncé and Swizz
Routine "recess" a hit at White House obesity summit. [SEP] Michelle Obama // also had bee hives installed on the South Lawn of the White House. The garden supplied organic produce and honey for the meals of the First Family and for state dinners and other official gatherings. In January 2010, Obama undertook her first lead role in an administration-wide initiative, which she named ""Let's Move!"," to make progress in reversing the 21st-century trend of childhood obesity. On February 9, 2010, the First Lady announced "Let's Move!" and President Barack Obama created the Task Force on Childhood Obesity to review all current programs and create a national plan for change. Michelle Obama said
Routine "recess" a hit at White House obesity summit. [SEP] Recess (song) // Recess (song) "Recess" is a song by American record producers Skrillex and Kill the Noise, featuring vocals from Fatman Scoop and Passion Pit frontman Michael Angelakos. It was released on March 14, 2014 as part of Skrillex's debut studio album "Recess" (2014). It entered the UK Singles Chart at number 57 after being added to BBC Radio 1's rotation. On May 15, 2014, the song was confirmed as the album's second single. Soon after, a teaser video for the single was released on Skrillex's YouTube channel on July 3, 2014. The song was released as a single on July 7,
Routine "recess" a hit at White House obesity summit. [SEP] Recess (break) // has shown that only very few children actually meet this national guideline. Failure to meet this guideline and exercise daily is leading to harmful health issues for children. Recess can be an outlet for students to get some of this physical activity and aid in preventing childhood obesity and diabetes. Another important aspect of recess to consider is what time of day it should be implemented. Traditionally schools have recess after lunch. But, in 2002, the Recess before Lunch (RBL) movement was founded. A health team in Montana created a study on four schools that made this schedule adjustment. After
Routine "recess" a hit at White House obesity summit. [SEP] Obesity in the United States // high-calorie drinks and all beverages in containers larger than 8, 10 and 12 ounces in elementary, middle and high schools, respectively. Non-profit organizations such as HealthCorps work to educate people on healthy eating and advocate for healthy food choices in an effort to combat obesity. Former American First Lady Michelle Obama led an initiative to combat childhood obesity entitled "Let's Move". Obama said she aimed to wipe out obesity "in a generation". Let's Move! has partnered with other programs. Walking and bicycling to school helps children increase their physical activity. In 2008, the state of Pennsylvania enacted a law, the
Routine "recess" a hit at White House obesity summit. [SEP] Let's Move! // "if anything can help curb the nation's childhood obesity problem, it is the galvanizing power of Beyoncé Knowles dancing", and further praised how "[the] bunch of cute kids [were] doing the Running Man and The Dougie in the cafeteria with Beyoncé." Let's Move! Let's Move! was a public health campaign in the United States, led by Michelle Obama, wife of then-President Barack Obama. The campaign aims to reduce childhood obesity and encourage a healthy lifestyle in children. The initiative has the initially stated goal of "solving the challenge of childhood obesity within a generation so that children born today will
Routine "recess" a hit at White House obesity summit. [SEP] The More You Know // education, while First Lady Michelle Obama worked to promote the prevention of childhood obesity. The show has also featured Jonathan Brandis. On February 24, 2016, NBC announced that it would launch a new Saturday morning E/I block named after the campaign, programmed by Litton Entertainment and replacing its in-house NBC Kids block. The campaign has been widely parodied, with references in "Will & Grace", "30 Rock", "Family Guy", "Drawn Together", "Scrubs", recurring parodies on "Late Night with Conan O'Brien", a running segment on "The Daily Show" called "The Less You Know," and an April 2006 series of NBC-produced mock PSAs
Routine "recess" a hit at White House obesity summit. [SEP] Mary Mazzio // Ideas Festival where thought leaders and policy makers, including Robin Schepper (the head of Mrs. Obama's "Let's Move" campaign), discussed the film and the issues of how to tackle the obesity crisis in low-income neighborhoods across the country. In addition, Kathleen Merrigan, Deputy Secretary of the USDA, hosted a special screening of "The Apple Pushers" at the Motion Picture Association in Washington DC for policy leaders, heads of federal agencies, and others in a position to help spread the message of the film - which is to think creatively about pushing back the borders of food deserts. Narrated by Fred
Routine "recess" a hit at White House obesity summit. [SEP] Melody Barnes // that Obama's choice to surround himself with these former senior aides to key congressional leaders on health care was instrumental in passing the health-care reform legislation through Congress. Barnes chaired the White House Task Force on Childhood Obesity, which in May 2010 released a 124-page report with 70 recommendations to combat the childhood obesity epidemic in the United States. In November 2011, the White House announced that Barnes would be leaving. She departed in January 2012. After leaving the White House, Barnes became chief executive officer of Melody Barnes Solutions LLC, a strategy firm advising major financial institutions and other
Planned Parenthood is "not actually doing women’s health issues. [SEP] Political positions of Jeb Bush // of Planned Parenthood in connection with an undercover video controversy. In August 2015, Bush said, "I, for one, don't think Planned Parenthood ought to get a penny ... And that's the difference because they're not actually doing women's health issues. They're involved in something way different than that." The "Washington Post" "Fact Checker" column said that this statement was a "false claim" and "patently incorrect," and Politifact rated it "Pants on Fire," with both noting that Planned Parenthood provides a wide array of women's health services. In October 2015, Bush said on "Fox News Sunday" that he opposed shutting down
Planned Parenthood is "not actually doing women’s health issues. [SEP] Planned Parenthood // Republicans in March 2017, would have made Planned Parenthood "ineligible for Medicaid reimbursements or federal family planning grants." Planned Parenthood is an advocate for the legal and political protection of reproductive rights. This advocacy includes helping to sponsor abortion rights and women's rights events. The Federation opposes restrictions on women's reproductive health services, including parental consent laws for minors. To justify this position, Planned Parenthood has cited the case of Becky Bell, who died following an illegal abortion rather than seek parental consent for a legal one. Planned Parenthood also takes the position that laws requiring parental notification before an
Planned Parenthood is "not actually doing women’s health issues. [SEP] Americans United for Life // other organizations, Expose Planned Parenthood, to campaign for the United States Congress to end federal funding of Planned Parenthood. In an article in "The Washington Times", the organization's counsel, Anna Franzonello, argued that the federal funding of Planned Parenthood effectively means that U.S. taxpayers are funding abortion procedures. She also voiced criticism of Planned Parenthood's advisory role to the government, particularly with regard to health care reform. The organization released a report on Planned Parenthood in July 2011, based on a study of 20 years of its records and other evidence including law enforcement reports. Based on the findings of
Planned Parenthood is "not actually doing women’s health issues. [SEP] Social policy of Donald Trump // for abortion-related procedures). In March 2016, Trump said that Planned Parenthood should not be funded "as long as you have the abortion going on," but acknowledged that "Planned Parenthood has done very good work for many, many -- for millions of women." Planned Parenthood said in a statement that "Trump presidency would be a disaster for women" and criticized Trump's claim that "he'd be great for women while in the same breath pledging to block them from accessing care at Planned Parenthood." In an interview later that month, Trump acknowledged that there must be "some form" of punishment for women
Planned Parenthood is "not actually doing women’s health issues. [SEP] Planned Parenthood // that do not provide access to emergency contraception for rape victims. Citing the need for medically accurate information in sex education, Planned Parenthood opposes abstinence-only education in public schools. Instead, Planned Parenthood is a provider of, and endorses, comprehensive sex education, which includes discussion of both abstinence and birth control. Planned Parenthood's advocacy activities are executed by the "Planned Parenthood Action Fund", which is registered as a 501(c)(4) charity, and files financial information jointly with PPFA. The committee was founded in 1996, by then-president Gloria Feldt, for the purpose of maintaining reproductive health rights and supporting political candidates of the
Planned Parenthood is "not actually doing women’s health issues. [SEP] 1977 National Women's Conference // healthcare provider Planned Parenthood. The debates have become a focal point of the political and legal sphere, with members of Congress deliberating on government funding allocated to the organization. Supporters of reproductive freedom and Planned Parenthood argue that defunding the organization, which provides a variety of healthcare services to women, men, and young people including safe and legal abortions, would detrimentally affect preventative and reproductive care. All of the demands from Plank 8 can be analyzed through a liberal feminist approach. Feminist concerns with education focused on reallocation of government funds. The delegates of the conference decided that the ways
Planned Parenthood is "not actually doing women’s health issues. [SEP] Lee Minto // care a lot about that. It's about healthy mothers rearing healthy children ... Family planning is about having the information you need before you make decisions. It's about taking control of your own life and being responsible for your own body ... I've lived too long to think we can ever solve all the problems of women's healthcare – it's a moving target – but we can and we've got to look beyond the blinders of our own experience, our own religious beliefs, our own upbringing, sometimes our own cherished values, and see and appreciate the differing realities of other
Planned Parenthood is "not actually doing women’s health issues. [SEP] Family planning // , Women Deliver. Some pro-life groups claim that the United Nations and World Health Organization advocate abortion as a form of family planning. In fact, the United Nations Population Fund explicitly states it “never promotes abortion as a form of family planning.” The World Health Organization states that "Family planning/contraception reduces the need for abortion, especially unsafe abortion." The campaign to conflate contraception and abortion is rooted on the assertion that contraception ends, rather than prevents, pregnancy. According to an amicus brief submitted to the U.S. Supreme Court in October 2013 led by Physicians for Reproductive Health and the American
Planned Parenthood is "not actually doing women’s health issues. [SEP] Planned Parenthood // from other operating revenue. According to Planned Parenthood, 59% of the group's revenue is put towards the provision of health services, while non-medical services such as sex education and public policy work make up another 15%; management expenses, fundraising, and international family planning programs account for about 16%, and 10% of the revenue in 2013–2014 was not spent. Planned Parenthood receives over a third of its money in government grants and contracts (about in 2014). By law (Hyde Amendment), federal funding cannot be allocated for abortions (except in rare cases), but some opponents of abortion have argued that allocating money
Planned Parenthood is "not actually doing women’s health issues. [SEP] Planned Parenthood // provide abortions. Planned Parenthood is the largest single provider of abortions in the U.S., but pro-choice advocates have argued that the organization's family planning services reduce the need for abortions; in the words of Megan Crepeau of the "Chicago Tribune", Planned Parenthood could be "characterized as America's largest abortion preventer". Pro-life activists dispute the evidence that greater access to contraceptives reduces abortion frequency. Periodically, pro-life advocates and activists have tried to demonstrate that Planned Parenthood does not follow applicable state or federal laws. The groups called or visited Planned Parenthood health centers posing as victims of statutory rape, minors who
We've caught Iran cheating on the interim (nuclear) deal. [SEP] Nuclear program of Iran // the P5+1 agreed to a six-month interim deal that involves the freezing of key parts of the Iranian nuclear program in exchange for a decrease in sanctions, to provide time to negotiate a permanent agreement. Iran will stop enriching uranium beyond 5%, and will stop development of their Arak plant. The UN will be granted greater access for inspections. In exchange, Iran will receive relief from sanctions of approximately US$7 billion (£4.3 billion) and no additional sanctions will be imposed. President Obama called the agreement an "important first step." Following further negotiation of implementation details, a summary of which was
We've caught Iran cheating on the interim (nuclear) deal. [SEP] Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action // place." Former Ambassador Dennis Ross, a longtime American negotiator in the Middle East, wrote that he was not yet convinced by either proponents or opponents of the agreement. Ross wrote that the United States should be focused on "deterring the Iranians from cheating" (e.g., by producing highly enriched uranium) after year fifteen of the agreement. Ross wrote, "President Obama emphasizes that the agreement is based on verification not trust. But our catching Iran cheating is less important than the price they know they will pay if we catch them. Deterrence needs to apply not just for the life of the
We've caught Iran cheating on the interim (nuclear) deal. [SEP] Joint Plan of Action // officials as far back as 2008, when then-President George W. Bush dispatched him. The interim Geneva Accord was signed between P5+1 countries and the Islamic Republic of Iran on 24 November 2013. The deal consists of the short-term freezing of key parts of the Iranian nuclear program in exchange for a decrease in sanctions, as both sides work towards a long-term agreement. The agreement makes the following stipulations on the Iranian nuclear program: In exchange, Iran will receive relief from sanctions of approximately US$7 billion (£4.3 billion) and no additional sanctions will be imposed. The agreement sets a six-month time
We've caught Iran cheating on the interim (nuclear) deal. [SEP] P5+1 // deal, according to an Iranian official. On 24 November 2013, an interim agreement was reached between the E3/EU+3 (P5+1 countries and the EU) and Iran in Geneva, Switzerland. It is expected to lead to a six-month freeze and partial rollback of portions of Iran's nuclear program in exchange for decreased economic sanctions on Iran, as the countries work towards a long-term agreement. It represents the first formal agreement between the United States and Iran in 34 years. U.S. Under Secretary of State for Political Affairs and the lead negotiator with Iran, Wendy Sherman, told a Senate hearing that Iran's ballistic
We've caught Iran cheating on the interim (nuclear) deal. [SEP] Joint Plan of Action // with Minister of Foreign Affairs John Baird saying Iran "has not earned the right to have the benefit of the doubt." UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon hailed the interim agreement as the potential "beginnings of a historic agreement." Hezbollah published a declaration and stated this is a triumph for Iran. The American Israel Public Affairs Committee reacted skeptically to the agreement and urged preparation of sanctions legislation in Congress in case it failed, but fell short of calling for new sanctions immediately. Other non-partisan pro-Israel groups, including the Anti-Defamation League and the American Jewish Committee, were cautiously welcoming of the
We've caught Iran cheating on the interim (nuclear) deal. [SEP] Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action // of a short-term freeze of portions of Iran's nuclear program in exchange for decreased economic sanctions on Iran, as the countries work towards a long-term agreement. The IAEA began "more intrusive and frequent inspections" under this interim agreement. The agreement was formally activated on 20 January 2014. On that day, the IAEA issued a report stating that Iran was adhering to the terms of the interim agreement, including stopping enrichment of uranium to 20 percent, beginning the dilution process (to reduce half of the stockpile of 20 percent enriched uranium to 3.5 percent), and halting work on the Arak heavy-water
We've caught Iran cheating on the interim (nuclear) deal. [SEP] Joint Plan of Action // also be allowed to conduct business with Iranian oil shipments to six countries currently waived from facing U.S. sanctions. Joint Plan of Action On 24 November 2013, the Joint Plan of Action (), also known as the Geneva interim agreement (), was a pact signed between Iran and the P5+1 countries in Geneva, Switzerland. It consists of a short-term freeze of portions of Iran's nuclear program in exchange for decreased economic sanctions on Iran, as the countries work towards a long-term agreement. It represented the first formal agreement between the United States and Iran in 34 years. Implementation of the
We've caught Iran cheating on the interim (nuclear) deal. [SEP] Presidency of Barack Obama // positions of most of Obama's rivals in the 2008 presidential campaign. In June 2013, Hasan Rouhani won election as the new President of Iran, and Rouhani called for a continuation of talks on Iran's nuclear program. In November 2013, Iran and the P5 announced an interim agreement, and in April 2015, negotiators announced that a framework agreement had been reached. Congressional Republicans, who along with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu had strongly opposed the negotiations, attempted but failed to pass a Congressional resolution rejecting the six-nation accord. Under the agreement, Iran promised to limit its nuclear program and to provide
We've caught Iran cheating on the interim (nuclear) deal. [SEP] Institute for East West Strategic Studies // senior officials from P5 nations. The French and Chinese press reported that the success of the Nuclear Interim Deal achieved in Geneva on November 11, 2013 can be credited to this meeting held in France earlier that month. After the Grand Deal achieved in Vienna on July 2015, the US press also reported that "The nuclear deal would not have been possible without the active involvement of Iran sole trusted friend - China" and that Chinese officials were involved in "a series of back-channel meetings in the run-up to July's grand deal" hosted by former Ambassador Prof. Jean Christophe Iseux
We've caught Iran cheating on the interim (nuclear) deal. [SEP] Barack Obama // and Times Square. Reaction to the announcement was positive across party lines, including from former presidents Bill Clinton and George W. Bush. In November 2013, the Obama administration opened negotiations with Iran to prevent it from acquiring nuclear weapons, which included an interim agreement. Negotiations took two years with numerous delays, with a deal being announced July 14, 2015. The deal, titled the "Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action", saw the removal of sanctions in exchange for measures that would prevent Iran from producing nuclear weapons. While Obama hailed the agreement as being a step towards a more hopeful world, the
The Claim: Aspirin Can Reduce the Risk of Alzheimer’s Disease [SEP] Tumefactive multiple sclerosis // also advised to stop. Pharmacological treatment include anti-depressants and caffeine. Aspirin has also been experimented with and from clinical trial data, MS patients preferred using aspirin as compared to the placebo in the test. One hypothesis is that aspirin has an effect on the hypothalamus and can affect the perception of fatigue through altering the release of neurotransmitters and the autonomic responses. There are no approved drugs for the treatment of cognitive dysfunction, however, some treatments have shown an association with improvements in cognitive function. One such treatment is "Ginkgo biloba", is a herb commonly used by patients with Alzheimer's
The Claim: Aspirin Can Reduce the Risk of Alzheimer’s Disease [SEP] Prevention of dementia // may be important, with early postmenopausal use being preferable over its use later in life. Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) can decrease the risk of developing Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases. The length of time needed to prevent dementia varies, but in most studies it is usually between 2 and 10 years. Research has also shown that it must be used in clinically relevant dosages and that so called "baby aspirin" doses are ineffective at treating dementia. Alzheimer's disease causes inflammation in the neurons by its deposits of amyloid beta peptides and neurofibrillary tangles. These deposits irritate the body by causing a
The Claim: Aspirin Can Reduce the Risk of Alzheimer’s Disease [SEP] Anti-inflammatory // albino rat. More recently plumericin from the Amazonian plant "Himatanthus sucuuba" has been described as a potent anti-inflammatory agent "in vitro" and "in vivo". Anti-inflammatory treatment trials for existing Alzheimer's disease have typically shown little to no effect on halting or reversing the disease. Research and clinical trials continue. Two studies from 2012 and 2013 found regular use of aspirin for over ten years is associated with an increase in the risk of macular degeneration. Applying ice, or even cool water, to a tissue injury has an anti-inflammatory effect and is often suggested as an injury treatment and pain management
The Claim: Aspirin Can Reduce the Risk of Alzheimer’s Disease [SEP] Sanjay Asthana // from Alzheimer's disease, spurring Ashtana to study the disease. Asthana has participated in clinical trials of therapeutic interventions, including those testing the effects of soy isoflavones,vitamin E, and ramipril, finding that vitamin E may slow cognitive decline. Other recent work has focused on the possibility that insulin resistance may increase the risk of developing Alzheimer's disease or the progression of the disease Sanjay Asthana Sanjay Asthana is Chief of the Division of Geriatrics and Gerontology at the University of Wisconsin School of Medicine and Public Health, and holds the Duncan G. and Lottie H. Ballantine Endowed Chair in Geriatrics. Since
The Claim: Aspirin Can Reduce the Risk of Alzheimer’s Disease [SEP] Aspirin // heart disease, aspirin has been thought to decrease the risk of a non-fatal myocardial infarction but not to change the overall risk of death. One study found that among those who have never had a heart attack or stroke, taking aspirin daily for 1 year prevents 1 in 1,667 from having a non-fatal heart attack or stroke, but caused 1 in 3,333 to have a non-fatal bleeding event. However, the study population were at relatively higher risk than those who had never had a heart attack or stroke. A large trial from 2018 in healthy people who were at least
The Claim: Aspirin Can Reduce the Risk of Alzheimer’s Disease [SEP] Prevention of dementia // (45–65 years) and older age (65+ years) should be actively treated to reduce the risk of dementia. Diabetes mellitus is a risk factor for vascular dementia, and is thus the risk is lowered with anti-diabetic drugs. Besides, Rosiglitazone (Avandia) improves memory and thinking ability for people with mild Alzheimer's disease. The mechanism of the effect may be the ability of the drug to reduce insulin resistance. Thus, less insulin needs to be released to achieve its metabolic effects. Insulin in the bloodstream is a trigger of amyloid beta-production, so decreased insulin levels decrease the level of amyloid beta. This leads
The Claim: Aspirin Can Reduce the Risk of Alzheimer’s Disease [SEP] Vascular dementia // channel blockers, sympathetic nerve inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor antagonists or adrenergic antagonists. Elevated lipid levels, including HDL, were found to increase risk of vascular dementia. However, four large recent reviews showed that therapy with statin drugs was ineffective in treatment or prevention of this dementia. Aspirin is a medication that is commonly prescribed for prevention of strokes and heart attacks; it is also frequently given to patients with dementia. However, its efficacy in slowing progression of dementia or improving cognition has not been supported by studies. Smoking cessation and Mediterranean diet have not been found to help patients with cognitive
The Claim: Aspirin Can Reduce the Risk of Alzheimer’s Disease [SEP] Alzheimer's disease // flavonoids such as cocoa, red wine, and tea may decrease the risk of AD. Reviews on the use of vitamins and minerals have not found enough consistent evidence to recommend them. This includes vitamin A, C, the alpha-tocopherol form of vitamin E, selenium, zinc, and folic acid with or without vitamin B. Evidence from one randomized controlled trial indicated that the alpha-tocopherol form of vitamin E may slow cognitive decline, this evidence was judged to be "moderate" in quality. Trials examining folic acid (B9) and other B vitamins failed to show any significant association with cognitive decline. Omega-3 fatty acid
The Claim: Aspirin Can Reduce the Risk of Alzheimer’s Disease [SEP] Aspirin // is available as a generic medication. Aspirin is used in the treatment of a number of conditions, including fever, pain, rheumatic fever, and inflammatory diseases, such as rheumatoid arthritis, pericarditis, and Kawasaki disease. Lower doses of aspirin have also been shown to reduce the risk of death from a heart attack, or the risk of stroke in people who are at high risk or who have cardiovascular disease, but not in elderly people who are otherwise healthy. There is some evidence that aspirin is effective at preventing colorectal cancer, though the mechanisms of this effect are unclear. In the United
The Claim: Aspirin Can Reduce the Risk of Alzheimer’s Disease [SEP] Aspirin // 70 years old, found no difference in preventing cardiovascular events, but a higher risk of serious bleeding. Aspirin appears to offer little benefit to those at lower risk of heart attack or stroke—for instance, those without a history of these events or with pre-existing disease. Some studies recommend aspirin on a case-by-case basis, while others have suggested the risks of other events, such as gastrointestinal bleeding, were enough to outweigh any potential benefit, and recommended against using aspirin for primary prevention entirely. Aspirin has also been suggested as a component of a polypill for prevention of cardiovascular disease. Complicating the
North Korea to launch medical tourism, targeting visitors from China. [SEP] Medical tourism // its platform increased fivefold over the previous year, and more than 500,000 Chinese visitors are expected to go on medical tourism. The top ten medical tourism destinations are Japan, Korea, the U.S., Taiwan, Germany, Singapore, Malaysia, Sweden, Thailand, and India. Regular health checks made up the majority share of Chinese medical tourism in 2016, representing over 50% of all medical tourism trips for tourists originating in China. All twelve of Hong Kong's private hospitals have been surveyed and accredited by the UK's Trent Accreditation Scheme since early 2001. Medical tourism is a growing sector in India. India is becoming the
North Korea to launch medical tourism, targeting visitors from China. [SEP] Tourism in North Korea // own vehicles to Luo, a small North Korean northeast border region where they are free to explore, mingle, and photograph. This is seen as a first step toward expanded tourism and development in that region. , North Korea has been open to tourists during the winter. The Masikryong Ski Resort outside Wonsan City in Kangwon Province opened in early 2014. While tourists have historically been restricted to Pyongyang, some tours have recently been able to expand to other parts of the country such as Rajin (and the market there) and Chongjin. Tourists can take the plane to Pyongyang from Beijing,
North Korea to launch medical tourism, targeting visitors from China. [SEP] Tourism in North Korea // Shenyang, Shanghai and Vladivostok, and train services to Pyongyang from Beijing, Dandong and Moscow. For Westerners, there are a handful of private tour operators that help provide access to North Korea. There has been a recent incident where a 21-year-old American student named Otto Warmbier was arrested at the airport before departure, allegedly for removing a propaganda poster from a wall in his hotel. Warmbier was at the time traveling with Chinese tour operator Young Pioneer Tours for a 5-day tourist trip to North Korea. He was convicted of "committing hostile acts" against the state (after allegedly stealing a propaganda
North Korea to launch medical tourism, targeting visitors from China. [SEP] Tourism in North Korea // other western countries. Those groups that still offer access to all western nations include Uri Tours (known for its role in Dennis Rodman's and Eric Schmidt's trips to North Korea), Lupine Travel (a UK-based budget travel agency known for its DPRK Amateur Golf Open), Tongil Tours (with a focus on college tours and special delegations), and KTG (known for their small sized groups and affordable tours). FarRail Tours also takes tours to see operating steam railways and the Pyongyang Metro. In 2002, the area around Mount Kumgang, a scenic mountain close to the South Korea border, was designated as a
North Korea to launch medical tourism, targeting visitors from China. [SEP] Tourism in North Korea // special tourist destination: Mount Kumgang Tourist Region. Tours run by private companies brought thousands of South Koreans to Mount Kŭmgang every year before the suspension of tours in late 2008 due to the shooting of a South Korean tourist. When tours had not resumed by May 2010, North Korea unilaterally announced that it would seize South Korean real estate assets in the region. In July 2005, the South Korean company Hyundai Group came to an agreement with the North Korean government to open up more areas to tourism, including Baekdu Mountain and Kaesong. Kaesong was opened to daily tours for
North Korea to launch medical tourism, targeting visitors from China. [SEP] Tourism in North Korea // South Korean and foreign tourists in December 2007; North Korea charged US $180 for a one-day trip. The city received several hundred tourists each week, mostly South Koreans. The tours to Kaesong were suspended in December 2008 due to a political conflict between North and South Korean relating to propaganda balloons. The balloons, filled with information critical of Kim Jong-il and the North Korean regime, were sent into North Korea from just south of the border in South Korea. When South Korea did not respond to North Korean demands to stop the propaganda balloons, North Korea suspended the Kaesong tours.
North Korea to launch medical tourism, targeting visitors from China. [SEP] Tourism in North Korea // In 2011, a Tumen-Korean train service was scheduled to start. Though gambling is prohibited for North Korean citizens, two casinos exist in North Korea for the Chinese tourist market – the Imperial Hotel & Casino in Rason and the Pyongyang Casino in the Yanggakdo International Hotel in Pyongyang. In 2016, the North Korea government allowed Chinese tourists to stay in North Korea for a maximum of 6 months. In principle, any person is allowed to travel to North Korea; only South Koreans and journalists are routinely denied, although there have been some exceptions for journalists. For instance, Croatian journalists had
North Korea to launch medical tourism, targeting visitors from China. [SEP] Tourism in North Korea // The tours to Kaesong resumed in April 2010, but were again suspended in May 2010 following the ROKS "Cheonan" sinking. In April 2010, the first tourist trains from Dandong, China brought visitors to North Korea for a four-day tour. Before that, the international train from Beijing to Pyongyang was used as a tourist train. In June 2011, Chinese citizens were allowed on a self-driven tour in North Korea for the first time. As of January 2013, tourists are now able to bring their own mobile phones into North Korea, although without a North Korean SIM card (which became available to
North Korea to launch medical tourism, targeting visitors from China. [SEP] Tourism in North Korea // foreigners) the phone will not be able to make or receive calls. Previously, foreigners had to surrender their phones at the border (or airport) before entering the country. The number of Chinese tourists visiting North Korea fell 70 percent from 2010 to 2011. One Chinese travel agency cited the limited number of packages and restrictions on where foreign tourists can travel as the main reasons for the lack of interest. Only the capital Pyongyang and Mount Kumgang are available on Chinese itineraries. Various places are accessible from the Chinese side, such as Namyang and monasteries in Chilbosan from Tumen, China.
North Korea to launch medical tourism, targeting visitors from China. [SEP] Tourism in North Korea // poster from the restricted floor of his hotel) and sentenced to 15 years hard labor. He was later released and returned for humanitarian reasons but was in a coma which led to his death on 19 June 2017. As a result, the tour group stated that they would stop taking United States citizens to North Korea as the "risk is too high". Koryo Tours (known for its North Korean-related films such as "Comrade Kim Goes Flying" and strong history in the region) are also looking into their positions on the matter. It is unknown how this will affect tourism from
There is a demonstrable link between marijuana legalization and an increase in violent crime. [SEP] Decriminalization of non-medical cannabis in the United States // found the "high" from cannabis is unlikely to trigger violence and concluded: In 2004, a study by Scott Bates from the Boreal Economic Analysis & Research center entitled "The Economic Implications of Marijuana Legalization in Alaska", was prepared for Alaskans for Rights & Revenues. The study found there was no link between cannabis use and criminal behavior. A 2014 study published in PLoS ONE found that not only did the legalization of Medical cannabis did not increase violent crime, but that a 2.4% reduction in homicide and assault was found for each year the law was in effect. The Drug
There is a demonstrable link between marijuana legalization and an increase in violent crime. [SEP] Decriminalization of non-medical cannabis in the United States // usage and an increase in crime, but rather have found cannabis may decrease criminal behavior when under the influence. In 1973, a report by the National Commission on Marijuana and Drug Abuse entitled "Marijuana: A Signal of Misunderstanding" found marijuana does not cause violent or aggressive behavior, but rather "marijuana was usually found to inhibit the expression of aggressive impulses by pacifying the user, interfering with muscular coordination, reducing psychomotor activities and generally producing states of drowsiness lethargy, timidity and passivity." In 2001, a report by David Boyum and Mark A.R. Kleiman entitled "Substance Abuse Policy from a Crime-Control Perspective"
There is a demonstrable link between marijuana legalization and an increase in violent crime. [SEP] Medical cannabis in the United States // study similarly found that introduction of medical cannabis laws caused a reduction in violent crime in American states that border Mexico. A 2013 study found that medical cannabis legalization is associated with an 8-11% reduction in traffic fatalities. Several studies have found decreased rates of opioid use and abuse in states that have legalized medical cannabis. Several studies have found no increase in teen use in states that have legalized cannabis for medical purposes. A 2018 meta-analysis in the journal "Addiction" similarly found no increase. Below is a comparison of medical conditions for which doctors can recommend cannabis in each
There is a demonstrable link between marijuana legalization and an increase in violent crime. [SEP] Effects of legalized cannabis // Effects of legalized cannabis Cannabis is a legal recreational and medical drug in several countries and US states and there have been several effects of the drug being legalized. A 2017 study found that the introduction of medical marijuana laws caused a reduction in violent crime in Americans states that border Mexico: "The reduction in crime is strongest for countries close to the border (less than 350km), and for crimes that relate to drug trafficking. In addition, we find that MMLs in inland states lead to a reduction in crime in the nearest border state. Our results are consistent with
There is a demonstrable link between marijuana legalization and an increase in violent crime. [SEP] Drug Trafficking Safe Harbor Elimination Act // more likely to commit crimes than those who did not use. This study also showed that 26.1% of those interviewed in 1991 and used cannabis, alcohol, and/or cocaine had committed a violent crime during the last year. There is a proven link that shows a strong correlation between illicit drug use and crime. Often these criminal acts are committed to obtain goods or money to support the drug habit. Thus, increasing concern for legislation to continue to look for possible solutions. The United States not only focuses on its borders, it focuses beyond its soil in attempts to prevent what
There is a demonstrable link between marijuana legalization and an increase in violent crime. [SEP] Correlation does not imply causation // children like watching more TV than less violent ones. A correlation between recreational drug use and psychiatric disorders might be either way around: perhaps the drugs cause the disorders, or perhaps people use drugs to self medicate for preexisting conditions. Gateway drug theory may argue that marijuana usage leads to usage of harder drugs, but hard drug usage may lead to marijuana usage (see also "confusion of the inverse"). Indeed, in the social sciences where controlled experiments often cannot be used to discern the direction of causation, this fallacy can fuel long-standing scientific arguments. One such example can be found
There is a demonstrable link between marijuana legalization and an increase in violent crime. [SEP] Effects of legalized cannabis // the theory that decriminalization of the production and distribution of marijuana leads to a reduction in violent crime in markets that are traditionally controlled by Mexican drug trafficking organisations." In Colorado, effects since 2014 include increased state revenues, violent crime decreased, an increase in homeless population, one Colorado hospital has received a 15% increase in babies born with THC in their blood. Since legalization, public health and law enforcement officials in Colorado have grappled with a number of issues, serving as a model for policy problems that come with legalization. Marijuana-related hospital visits have nearly doubled between 2011, prior to
There is a demonstrable link between marijuana legalization and an increase in violent crime. [SEP] Decriminalization of non-medical cannabis in the United States // 2010, a study from the University of New Hampshire examined survey data from 1,286 young adults who had attended Miami-Dade County Public Schools in the 1990s and found the association between teenage cannabis use and other illicit drug abuse by young adults was significantly diminished after controlling for other factors, such as unemployment. They found that after young adults reach age 21, the gateway effect subsides entirely. The Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) has claimed that cannabis leads to increased crime in the unsourced pamphlet entitled "Speaking Out Against Drug Legalization" Studies have found no evidence of a link between cannabis
There is a demonstrable link between marijuana legalization and an increase in violent crime. [SEP] Decriminalization of non-medical cannabis in the United States // than in states that treated it as a civil offense; (3) easing the penalties for marijuana did not lead to a substantial increase in the use of either alcohol or hard drugs." The Drug Enforcement Administration has reported that cannabis sales and trafficking support violent criminal gangs. Proponents of fully decriminalizing cannabis to allow the regulated cultivation and sale of cannabis, including Law Enforcement Against Prohibition, argue that fully decriminalizing cannabis would largely decrease financial gains earned by gangs in black market cannabis sales and trafficking. A study in the "Journal of Policy Analysis and Management" by Mark Anderson and
There is a demonstrable link between marijuana legalization and an increase in violent crime. [SEP] Cannabis and impaired driving // involvement associated with the use of drugs must be regarded as modest...Compared to the huge increase in accident risk associated with alcohol, as well as the high accident rate among young drivers, the increases in risk associated with the use of drugs are surprisingly small."" A report from the University of Colorado, Montana State University, and the University of Oregon found that on average, states that have legalized medical cannabis had a decrease in traffic-related fatalities by 8–11%. The researchers hypothesized "it’s just safer to drive under the influence of marijuana than it is drunk...Drunk drivers take more risk, they
A forthcoming Russian reality show called "Game2: Winter" will permit contestants to commit crimes, including rape and murder. [SEP] Game2: Winter // Game2: Winter Game2: Winter () was a social experiment and media stunt promoted as a Russian survival reality television program produced by Novosibirsk entrepreneur Yevgeny Pyatkovsky that was set to premiere in . The show caught the attention of the press when the show stated that its rules would allow crimes such as rape and murder which sparked outrage online. The show has been compared to a "real-life "Hunger Games"". The project was revealed to be a social experiment used for marketing research purposes on . 30 participants, half men and half women, were expected to compete on a remote
A forthcoming Russian reality show called "Game2: Winter" will permit contestants to commit crimes, including rape and murder. [SEP] Game2: Winter // via their VK account. Registration was closed on with over 340 applications. As of , 120 people had qualified for runoff voting. The 30 finalists were set to be revealed that . According to "The Guardian", "five countries have already expressed the desire to broadcast [the show] for their audiences". Game2: Winter Game2: Winter () was a social experiment and media stunt promoted as a Russian survival reality television program produced by Novosibirsk entrepreneur Yevgeny Pyatkovsky that was set to premiere in . The show caught the attention of the press when the show stated that its rules would allow
A forthcoming Russian reality show called "Game2: Winter" will permit contestants to commit crimes, including rape and murder. [SEP] Game2: Winter // Siberian island in the Ob River for a 100 million rouble ($1.7 million) prize on a nine month survival mission. All contestants were said to have signed death waivers and agreed not to hold the organisers accountable for criminal activity. However, Snopes found that 'Despite multiple misleading headlines, the waiver described by news outlets explicitly stated that contestants on the show would be obliged to "obey the laws of the Russian Federation".' The production's home base was in Western Siberia, with the Ob River area proposed as the main filming location. On , the production team posted a casting call
A forthcoming Russian reality show called "Game2: Winter" will permit contestants to commit crimes, including rape and murder. [SEP] Winter of Frozen Dreams // Winter of Frozen Dreams Winter of Frozen Dreams is a 2009 independent American crime drama directed by Eric Mandelbaum, and starring Thora Birch, Keith Carradine, and Brendan Sexton III. The film follows the story of Barbara Hoffman, a Wisconsin biochemistry student and prostitute convicted of murder in the first televised murder trial ever. The film was primarily shot in Schenectady, New York, with parts of the movie also filmed in Mariaville, Scotia, and Alplaus, New York. A controversy during filming involving Birch's father and his forced presence during Birch's taping of a sex scene for the movie made tabloid headlines.
A forthcoming Russian reality show called "Game2: Winter" will permit contestants to commit crimes, including rape and murder. [SEP] Winter of Frozen Dreams // Winter of Frozen Dreams Winter of Frozen Dreams is a 2009 independent American crime drama directed by Eric Mandelbaum, and starring Thora Birch, Keith Carradine, and Brendan Sexton III. The film follows the story of Barbara Hoffman, a Wisconsin biochemistry student and prostitute convicted of murder in the first televised murder trial ever. The film was primarily shot in Schenectady, New York, with parts of the movie also filmed in Mariaville, Scotia, and Alplaus, New York. A controversy during filming involving Birch's father and his forced presence during Birch's taping of a sex scene for the movie made tabloid headlines.
A forthcoming Russian reality show called "Game2: Winter" will permit contestants to commit crimes, including rape and murder. [SEP] Irina Gaidamachuk // confessed to the killings. Another woman who had been initially suspected for the crimes, and after pressure from authorities, confessed to the murders. Gaidamachuk stated that she committed the murder-robberies to pay for vodka to feed her alcohol addiction, as her husband refused to give her money for it. In February 2012, the court case began in Yekaterinburg. Gaidamachuk gave a confession to the indictment during the preliminary investigation, but contested this throughout her trial. A forensic psychiatric examination conducted by GNTSSSP Serbsky showed that Gaidamachuk, although she showed some mental illness, was legally sane at the time of the
A forthcoming Russian reality show called "Game2: Winter" will permit contestants to commit crimes, including rape and murder. [SEP] Blue Whale (game) // out of an apartment and falling on snow-covered ground in the town of Krasnoyarsk, also in Siberia. On 26 May 2017, the Russian Duma passed a bill introducing criminal responsibility for creating pro-suicide groups on social media and in June 2017, President Putin signed a law imposing criminal penalties for inducing minors to suicide. The law imposes a maximum punishment of six years in prison. On July 15, 2018, the Saudi General Commission for Audio-Visual Media banned 47 video games, including "Grand Theft Auto V", "Assassin's Creed II" and "", that had online components that were alleged to be part
A forthcoming Russian reality show called "Game2: Winter" will permit contestants to commit crimes, including rape and murder. [SEP] Dmitry Karimov // her cell phone and threw the body under a heater. The girl appealed to the police after she woke up, but did not report the rape and attempted murder, explaining that "she just got a job, and did not need any problems with the police". Karimov was convicted of robbery and infliction of bodily injuries to 2 years' imprisonment. The first murder he committed was in December 2005, on the territory of the Yekaterinburg Mayanovskoye Central Park of Culture. He killed a 15-year-old schoolgirl, who had just left school and was walking around the park. After killing her, Karimov took
A forthcoming Russian reality show called "Game2: Winter" will permit contestants to commit crimes, including rape and murder. [SEP] Great Reality TV Swindle // to create their own TV show about themselves. Having also given up his flat and job, Russian was also homeless, and was forced to stay with the contestants he had manipulated. After the programme failed, Russian went into hiding, and was unable to be contacted. He was eventually tracked down by one of his victims to an address in Richmond upon Thames, where he was forced to apologise on camera. As he had not taken any money from his victims, a criminal case against Russian was not pursued—a civil case was also not pursued due to a lack of funds.
A forthcoming Russian reality show called "Game2: Winter" will permit contestants to commit crimes, including rape and murder. [SEP] Nikolay Sakharov // and Marina Mukhina). Having a car, he scoured in search of victims around the city and the surrounding area. If he met a lonely young girl on the road, he offered her a ride, most often dressed in a police uniform. When the girl got into the car, he took her out of town, into the woods, raped her (according to his confession, he raped two of the girls, but the third he could not), killing them by hitting them with a hammer, driftwood or tuning key. Then Sakharov burned the corpses, shattering the skulls with a big stick, wrapping
Cyclone death toll above 750; fighting disease new challenge. [SEP] Cyclone Nargis // from Cyclone Sidr in the previous year and flooding earlier in the year, and a direct strike from Nargis would have resulted in destroyed crops due to strong winds. The United Nations estimated that 1.5 million people were "severely affected" by this cyclone. Estimates of the people missing were 53,836, with 84,537 confirmed dead. Some NGOs estimated that the final death toll would be over 100,000. At least 10,000 people were reported to have perished in the delta town of Bogale alone. Nargis was the deadliest tropical cyclone worldwide since the Typhoon Nina in 1975, which killed at least 229,000
Cyclone death toll above 750; fighting disease new challenge. [SEP] Cyclone Sidr // expects the death toll to reach as high as 10,000. Over 3,000 other fishermen were reported missing on over 500 fishing boats. Cyclone Sidr slammed the highly vulnerable low lying densely populated coastal areas of Bangladesh with heavy rain, winds of up to 120 miles/hr, and a storm surge. Sidr may be the strongest cyclone to hit the country since a cyclone killed over 143,000 Bangladeshis in 1991. Although, the death from Sidr number in the thousands but damage to homes, crops and livelihoods could be extensive and were reportedly worst. Effective early warning, cyclone shelters and disaster relief measure
Cyclone death toll above 750; fighting disease new challenge. [SEP] 1970 Bhola cyclone // out of the region in the three months were not included, and by excluding these groups, the risk of hearsay and exaggeration was reduced. The survey concluded that the overall death toll was, at minimum, 224,000. The worst effects were felt in Tazumuddin, where the mortality was 46.3%, corresponding to approximately 77,000 deaths in Thana alone. The mean mortality throughout the affected region was 16.5%. The results showed that the highest survival rate was for adult males aged 15–49, while more than half the deaths were children under ten, who only formed a third of the pre-cyclone population. This suggests
Cyclone death toll above 750; fighting disease new challenge. [SEP] Cyclone Nargis // initial uncertainty about the scale of the disaster. The final death toll from Nargis was at least 146,000, because there were 90,000 people confirmed dead at one point and 56,000 were missing. They were never found, so it was assumed that these 56,000 people were killed. Thus, its death toll would exceed that of the 1991 storm and make it the deadliest since the 1970 storm. It is now thought that hundreds of thousands of people will never be found after Nargis because their bodies have decayed, been buried, or were washed out to sea. Andrew Kirkwood, country director of
Cyclone death toll above 750; fighting disease new challenge. [SEP] Cyclone Sidr // the number of deaths associated with the cyclone to be between 5,000 and 10,000, while the Red Crescent Society reported on November 18 that the number of deaths could be up to 10,000. International groups pledged US$95 million to repair the damage, which was estimated at $1.7 billion (2007 USD). On November 9, an area of disturbed weather developed southeast of the Andaman Islands, with a weak low-level circulation near the Nicobar Islands. Initially moderate upper-level wind shear inhibited organization, while strong diffluence aloft aided in developing convection. Vertical shear decreased greatly as the circulation became better defined, and a
Cyclone death toll above 750; fighting disease new challenge. [SEP] Tropical cyclone // surge was responsible for the high death toll. The North Indian cyclone basin has historically been the deadliest basin. Elsewhere, Typhoon Nina killed nearly 100,000 in China in 1975 due to a 100-year flood that caused 62 dams including the Banqiao Dam to fail. The Great Hurricane of 1780 is the deadliest North Atlantic hurricane on record, killing about 22,000 people in the Lesser Antilles. A tropical cyclone does not need to be particularly strong to cause memorable damage, primarily if the deaths are from rainfall or mudslides. Tropical Storm Thelma in November 1991 killed thousands in the Philippines, although
Cyclone death toll above 750; fighting disease new challenge. [SEP] Effects of tropical cyclones // not as strong as their non-tropical counterparts, heavy damage or loss of life can still occur. Tornadoes can also be spawned as a result of eyewall mesovortices, which persist until landfall. During the last two centuries, tropical cyclones have been responsible for the deaths of about 1.9 million people worldwide. It is estimated that 10,000 people per year perish due to tropical cyclones. The deadliest tropical cyclone was the 1970 Bhola cyclone, which had a death toll of anywhere from 300,000 to 500,000 lives. Before Hurricane Katrina, which combined storm-tide flooding with levee-breach (dam) flooding from Lake Ponchartrain, the average
Cyclone death toll above 750; fighting disease new challenge. [SEP] 1970 Bhola cyclone // exact death toll will never be known, but it is estimated to be 300,000 to 500,000 people in total. The Bhola cyclone was not the most powerful of these, however; the 1991 Bangladesh cyclone was significantly stronger when it made landfall in the same general area, as a Category 5-equivalent cyclone with winds. The Bhola cyclone is the deadliest tropical cyclone on record and also one of the deadliest natural disasters in modern history. A comparable number of people died as a result of the 1976 Tangshan earthquake and the 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake, but because of uncertainty in the
Cyclone death toll above 750; fighting disease new challenge. [SEP] Typhoon Nanmadol (2011) // death toll, putting it at 16, and the number of missing at 8. The total damage to agriculture and infrastructure was also upgraded to US$23,748,522. On August 30, continuing the sequential reports after the typhoon, the NDRRMC pushed up the death toll to 22; the number of injured to 23 and the number of missing to 12. Also, they reported that the total number of houses damaged was 1,316 with 32 totally destroyed. The total damage to agriculture and infrastructure was also increased to US$26,119,801. Later the same day, the NDRRMC further upgraded the death toll to 25; the number
Cyclone death toll above 750; fighting disease new challenge. [SEP] Cyclone Nargis // and there have been allegations that government officials stopped updating the death toll after 138,000 to minimize political fallout. The feared 'second wave' of fatalities from disease and lack of relief efforts never materialized. Damage was estimated at over K62,988,000,000 (US$10 billion), which made it the most damaging cyclone ever recorded in this basin. The first named storm of the 2008 North Indian Ocean cyclone season, Nargis developed on 27 April in the central area of Bay of Bengal. Initially, the storm tracked slowly northwestward, and encountering favourable conditions, it quickly strengthened. Dry air weakened the cyclone on 29 April,
Here in Florida, I’ve slashed government by 10 percent. That's $7 billion. [SEP] Political positions of Jeb Bush // for Tax Analysts, concluded that tax cuts in Florida totaled $13 billion during the eight-year Bush era; Sullivan's figure is not adjusted for inflation and excludes the estate tax (because it required no legislative action to go into effect). The tax cuts resulted in tax savings by 2006 of 140 per person, per year. Bush vetoed $2 billion from state budgets (Florida has a line-item veto). According to a National Association of State Budget Officers report, state spending in Florida was cut by an average of 1.39 percent each year that Bush was in office as governor, with most cuts
Here in Florida, I’ve slashed government by 10 percent. That's $7 billion. [SEP] Marco Rubio // Senate Republicans, who said that the increase in sales tax would disproportionately affect the poor. So, Rubio agreed to smaller changes, and Crist's proposal to double the state's property tax exemption from $25,000 to $50,000 (for a tax reduction estimated by Crist to be $33 billion) ultimately passed. Legislators called it the largest tax cut in Florida's history up until then. At the time, Republican anti-tax activist Grover Norquist described Rubio as "the most pro-taxpayer legislative leader in the country." As speaker, Rubio "aggressively tried to push Florida to the political right," according to NBC News, and frequently clashed with
Here in Florida, I’ve slashed government by 10 percent. That's $7 billion. [SEP] Political positions of Jeb Bush // "B "(2000), "A" (2002), "B" (2004), and "C" (2006). Bush has said that during his tenure as Florida governor, $19.3 billion in tax cuts were enacted. Politifact rated this statement as "half true," saying it "partially accurate but leaves out important details." Politifact noted that the $19.3 billion figure is based on estimates and projections for cumulative revenue changes each year. A large amount of the claimed $19.3 billion also comes from the phase-out of the federal estate tax, which was enacted by an act of Congress and not by the Florida state government. Economist Martin Sullivan, in a report
Here in Florida, I’ve slashed government by 10 percent. That's $7 billion. [SEP] Political positions of Jeb Bush // While Bush was in office, "Florida's outstanding debt rose from $15 billion to more than $23 billion. The state's annual debt service payments rose from $928 million to $1.7 billion." According to a "South Florida Sun-Sentinel" news analysis, as Florida governor, Bush "championed tax cuts that chiefly benefited business and the wealthy." Under Bush's governorship, Florida reduced and then repealed the state's 0.2% tax on stocks, bonds, and other intangible assets. During Bush's tenure, the state also increased its reserves from $1.3 billion to $9.8 billion, which coincided with Florida receiving the highest possible bond rating for the first time.
Here in Florida, I’ve slashed government by 10 percent. That's $7 billion. [SEP] Politics of Florida // year; Senior Management, 2%; Special Risk employees, such as police and firefighters, 3%; and elected officers, including judges and legislative at 3% to 3.3%. The higher rate for the latter is to encourage early retirement. In 2010 there were 304,000 state retirees and 655,000 active employees. The average teacher's retirement check is $1,868 monthly. The average regular class retiree gets $970 per month. In 2011 to 2012 fiscal year, the state collected over $2.2 billion from the tax on gasoline. In 2011, Medicaid costs were 20% of the budget. These are mandated by the federal government. While the state administers
Here in Florida, I’ve slashed government by 10 percent. That's $7 billion. [SEP] Politics of Florida // hundreds of trust funds. The General Revenue portion of Florida's state budget is funded primarily by sales tax, while local governments also have their own respective budgets funded primarily by property taxes. The annual state budget is constructed by the legislature and signed into law by the governor who administers it. The state budget for 2008-9 was $66 billion. In 2008, the state was one of four which had fully funded pension systems for government employees, including teachers. There are five classes of state employees for pension investment: Regular and Special Risk Administrative employees accrue retirement benefits at 1.6%-1.68% per
Here in Florida, I’ve slashed government by 10 percent. That's $7 billion. [SEP] Mike Haridopolos // the state's budget which suffered a $4 billion shortfall, without raising taxes or fees. Beyond that the Senate also authorized SmartCap, a constitutional amendment that, if adopted, will place strict caps on government spending, as well as the Health Care Freedom Amendment which fights back against the government takeover of health care. That same year, the Senate also passed more than $300 million in tax relief, including a measure that effectively eliminates the corporate income tax burden for nearly half the roughly 30,000 Florida businesses that currently pay the tax; reformed Florida's entitlement programs, including the state's pension, welfare and
Here in Florida, I’ve slashed government by 10 percent. That's $7 billion. [SEP] Mike Pence // 10 percent cut he advocated, Pence did accomplish his goal of cutting state taxes. Legislators cut the income tax by 5 percent and also killed the inheritance tax. Speaker of the House Brian Bosma said that the legislative package was the "largest tax cut in our state's history, about $1.1 billion dollars." By signing Senate Bill 1, the state corporate income tax would be dropped from 6.5 percent to 4.9 percent by 2021, which would be the second-lowest corporate income tax in the nation. The law also permitted Indiana counties to eliminate the business personal property tax on new equipment
Here in Florida, I’ve slashed government by 10 percent. That's $7 billion. [SEP] Citizens Property Insurance Corporation // age of structure, and construction type". Florida House Bill 1495, passed in 2009, allows Citizens to raise rates gradually over five years to become actuarially sound. This was intended to shift the risk from taxpayers to the private sector. In the spring of 2012, Florida Governor Rick Scott stated in a survey with the Florida Council of 100 that Citizens Insurance had $504.8 billion in risk and just $6.1 billion in cash reserves. PolitiFact Florida, a fact checker of the Tampa Bay Times and Miami Herald, researched Scott's claims. They concluded that while the company did have $500 billion in
Here in Florida, I’ve slashed government by 10 percent. That's $7 billion. [SEP] Florida Public Broadcasting Service // PBS, NPR, CPB, BBC, ITV, and others. In May 2011, Florida Governor Rick Scott vetoed $4.8 Million from Public Broadcasting, claiming that it is an unnecessary investment towards a special interest group. The money cut will slash funding from thirteen radio stations by an average amount of $61,715 and all Florida Public Television Stations by an average of $307,447. Some critics have questioned his use of "special interest" for a medium that promotes arts, education, and news with the intention to "deliver education based outreach projects and provide high quality programming…[with the mission of] strengthen[ing the] community, empower[ing] families and…educat[ing]
Muslim nurses now have the "option of participating in medical operations without washing their hands. [SEP] Nursing in Islam // Western health care industry is the holistic approach to health and wellbeing taken. This holistic approach consists of both treating the organic basis of the ailments and providing spiritual support for the patient. This spiritual component comes in the form of "Tawheed" (Oneness of Allah), a dimension lacking in current Western models of nursing and, thus, could pose as a challenge for application of this model of nursing to Muslim patients as it does not meet their holistic needs. The first professional nurse in the history of Islam is a woman named Rufaidah bint Sa’ad, also known as Rufaida Al-Aslamia
Muslim nurses now have the "option of participating in medical operations without washing their hands. [SEP] Rufaida Al-Aslamia // surgery in Arabia from the Islamic Period to the modern times boasts a tumultuous history laden with cultural barriers and public pressures. Though very sparse documentation exists pertaining to the history of nursing in the Pre-Islamic period, a proper understanding of societal and religious paradigms during the reign of Prophet Muhammad lends significant insight into the roles and expectation of nurses in antiquity. In marked contrast to the pervading Christian interpretation of disease as a divine punishment for man, Muslims place an extremely high value on the ritual cleansing of the body, daily prayer schedules, and strict dietary regiments. An
Muslim nurses now have the "option of participating in medical operations without washing their hands. [SEP] Hand washing // in Islam (see also Muslim hygienical jurisprudence) and Misogi in Shintō. Hand washing Hand washing (or handwashing), also known as hand hygiene, is the act of cleaning hands for the purpose of removing soil, dirt, and microorganisms. If water and soap is not available, hands can be cleaned with ash instead. Medical hand hygiene refers to hygiene practices related to medical procedures. Hand washing before administering medicine or medical care can prevent or minimize the spread of disease. The main medical purpose of washing hands is to cleanse the hands of pathogens (like bacteria or viruses) and chemicals which can
Muslim nurses now have the "option of participating in medical operations without washing their hands. [SEP] Nursing in Islam // as well, likely by tending the patients’ spiritual needs. Nursing in Islam In Islam, nurses provide healthcare services to patients, families and communities as a manifestation of love for Allah and Muhammad. The nursing profession is not new to Islam. Islamic traditions include sympathy for and responsibility toward those in need.This perspective had emerged during the development of Islam as a religion, culture, and civilization. In Islamic traditions, caring is the manifestation of love for Allah and Muhammad. Caring in Islam, however, is more than the act of empathy; instead, it consists of being responsible for, sensitive to, and concerned
Muslim nurses now have the "option of participating in medical operations without washing their hands. [SEP] Nursing in Islam // Nursing in Islam In Islam, nurses provide healthcare services to patients, families and communities as a manifestation of love for Allah and Muhammad. The nursing profession is not new to Islam. Islamic traditions include sympathy for and responsibility toward those in need.This perspective had emerged during the development of Islam as a religion, culture, and civilization. In Islamic traditions, caring is the manifestation of love for Allah and Muhammad. Caring in Islam, however, is more than the act of empathy; instead, it consists of being responsible for, sensitive to, and concerned with those in need, namely the weak, the suffering
Muslim nurses now have the "option of participating in medical operations without washing their hands. [SEP] Rufaida Al-Aslamia // in the construction of many new hospitals and methods for treating the sick. Though nurses in this period of time were still relegated to rudimentary and noninvasive duties like serving food to patients and administering medicinal liquids, religious and social norms of the times necessitated the segregation of hospital wards based on gender, with males treating males and females treating females. While there has been some relaxation of segregation in contemporary times, the values of many traditional Islamic people are for hospitals and their policies to reflect these past segregational practices. Though still highly limited in the invasiveness of their
Muslim nurses now have the "option of participating in medical operations without washing their hands. [SEP] Nursing in Islam // or Rufayda al-Aslamiyyah, who was born in 620 (est.) and lived at the time of Muhammed. She hailed from the Bani Aslam tribe in Medina and was among the first people in Medina to accept Islam.. Rufaidah received her training and knowledge in medicine from her father, a physician, whom she assisted regularly. At the time when Muhammed's early followers were engaged in war, she led a group of volunteer nurses to the battlefield to treat and care for the injured and dying. After the Muslim state was established in Medina, she was given permission by Muhammed to set up
Muslim nurses now have the "option of participating in medical operations without washing their hands. [SEP] Islam and Mormonism // Muslims unable to find clean water to wash with, a ritual known as Tayammum is commanded, in which a Muslim uses "clean earth" to ritually cleanse his hands, arms, and face. This is only permitted if clean water is unavailable, or if the water is more than 1.7 km away. Although Mormonism does not require a special rite of washing prior to daily prayer or corporate worship, its special ceremony of washing and anointing (also called the "Initiatory") is an ordinance that symbolizes ritual cleansing and anointing to be a king or queen in heaven. In The Church of Jesus
Muslim nurses now have the "option of participating in medical operations without washing their hands. [SEP] Nursing in Islam // a tent outside the mosque to treat the ill and to train more Muslim women and girls as nurses. Rufaidah is described as a woman possessing the qualities of an ideal nurse: compassionate, empathetic, a good leader and a great teacher. She is said to have provided health education to the community, helped the disadvantaged (like orphans and the disabled), advocated for preventative care, and even to have drafted the world’s first code of nursing ethics . In hospitals built in the Medieval Muslim society male nurses tended to male patients and female nurses to female patients. The hospital in
Muslim nurses now have the "option of participating in medical operations without washing their hands. [SEP] Rufaida Al-Aslamia // first ever documented mobile care units that were able to meet the medical needs of the community. The scope of the majority of her work in her organized medical command units consisted primarily in hygiene and stabilizing patients prior to further and more invasive medical procedures. During military expeditions, Rufaida Al-Aslamia led groups of volunteer nurses who went to the battlefield and treated the casualties. She participated in the battles of Badr, Uhud, Khandaq, Khaibar, and others. During times of peace, Rufaida Al-Aslamia continued her involvement with humanitarian efforts by providing assistance to Muslims who were in need. Rufaidah had
U.S. 'gag rule' linked to 40% jump in abortions in parts of Africa. [SEP] Sex education // Africa has focused on stemming the growing AIDS epidemic. Most governments in the region have established AIDS education programs in partnership with the World Health Organization and international NGOs. These programs were undercut significantly by the Global Gag Rule, an initiative put in place by President Ronald Reagan, suspended by President Bill Clinton, and re-instated by President George W. Bush. The Global Gag Rule "...required nongovernmental organizations to agree as a condition of their receipt of Federal funds that such organizations would neither perform nor actively promote abortion as a method of family planning in other nations..." The Global Gag
U.S. 'gag rule' linked to 40% jump in abortions in parts of Africa. [SEP] Abortion debate // as does the right to life; thus, abortion is considered immoral. The Church of England also considers abortion to be morally wrong, though their position admits abortion when "the continuance of a pregnancy threatens the life of the mother". The Mexico City policy—also known as the "global gag rule"—required any non-governmental organization receiving U.S. government funding to refrain from performing or promoting abortion services in other countries. This had a significant effect on the health policies of many nations across the globe. The Mexico City policy was instituted under President Reagan, suspended under President Clinton, reinstated by President George W.
U.S. 'gag rule' linked to 40% jump in abortions in parts of Africa. [SEP] Gag rule // John C. Calhoun of South Carolina attempted to introduce a gag rule. The Senate rejected this proposal, but agreed on a method which, while technically not violating the right to petition, would achieve the same effect. If an anti-slavery petition was presented, the Senate would vote not on whether to accept the petition but on whether to consider the question of receiving the petition. Related to abortion rights, the so-called Mexico City policy, which prohibits U.S. funding for organizations that provide abortions, referrals to abortion providers, and in some cases any family planning (birth control) information, is sometimes referred to
U.S. 'gag rule' linked to 40% jump in abortions in parts of Africa. [SEP] Reproductive rights in Latin America // in Latin America. When U.S. President Donald Trump reinstated the Global Gag Rule on January 23, 2017, he prohibited all U.S. federal money from funding international organizations such as NGOs that "perform or actively promote abortion as a method of family planning". Due to the fact that abortion regulations are already extremely strict in Latin America, this legislation disproportionately affects Latin American organizations that try to provide abortion services to women either legally, or illegally. In 2012 a report presented to the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights (IACHR) found that access to information remains a significant roadblock to sexual and
U.S. 'gag rule' linked to 40% jump in abortions in parts of Africa. [SEP] Mexico City policy // plan for the upcoming G8 summit which did not include financial support for abortion or contraception, drawing comparisons to the Mexico City policy. An episode of the television series "Boston Legal", "Squid Pro Quo", which originally aired on May 9, 2006, featured a case involving USAID's withdrawal of funding to an overseas non-profit organization. An episode of the American television series "The West Wing", entitled "Privateers", featured a "gag rule" amendment of a law for overseas aid. Mexico City policy The Mexico City policy, sometimes referred to by critics as the global gag rule, is a United States government policy
U.S. 'gag rule' linked to 40% jump in abortions in parts of Africa. [SEP] Social policy of Donald Trump // He said that if "Roe v. Wade" were overturned, the issue would be returned to the states, and that if some states outlawed abortion, a woman would "have to go to another state" to obtain an abortion. In January 24, days after being sworn in, Trump issued an executive order reinstating the Mexico City policy (also called the "global gag rule"). Under the policy, international non-governmental organizations that "offer or promote abortions as part of their family planning services" are barred from receiving funds from the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID). On March 27, Trump revoked the 2014 Fair
U.S. 'gag rule' linked to 40% jump in abortions in parts of Africa. [SEP] Helms Amendment // performed in unsafe ways by people without proper qualifications and in places that are not fit to medical standards. The Global gag rule, also known as the "Mexico City policy", is in accordance with the Helms Amendment of 1973. The order bans foreign aid from the United States to be directed to any non-governmental organizations (NGOs) that provide any services relating to abortions. In 1984 the Global Gag Order was first placed by former President Reagan and remained active through former President Bush. In 1993 when former President Clinton took office the order was rescinded until 2001. Former President George
U.S. 'gag rule' linked to 40% jump in abortions in parts of Africa. [SEP] Sex education // Rule was again suspended as one of the first official acts by United States President Barack Obama. The incidences of new HIV transmissions in Uganda decreased dramatically when Clinton supported a comprehensive sex education approach (including information about contraception and abortion). According to Ugandan AIDS activists, the Global Gag Rule undermined community efforts to reduce HIV prevalence and HIV transmission. Egypt teaches knowledge about male and female reproductive systems, sexual organs, contraception and STDs in public schools at the second and third years of the middle-preparatory phase (when students are aged 12–14). A coordinated program between UNDP, UNICEF, and the
U.S. 'gag rule' linked to 40% jump in abortions in parts of Africa. [SEP] Mexico City policy // Mexico City policy The Mexico City policy, sometimes referred to by critics as the global gag rule, is a United States government policy that blocks U.S. federal funding for non-governmental organizations that provide abortion counselling or referrals, advocate to decriminalize abortion or expand abortion services. The Mexico City Policy is a U.S. government policy that – when in effect – has required foreign non-governmental organizations (NGOs) to certify that they will not "perform or actively promote abortion as a method of family planning" with non-U.S. funds as a condition for receiving U.S. global family planning assistance and, as of January
U.S. 'gag rule' linked to 40% jump in abortions in parts of Africa. [SEP] Mexico City policy // their access to USAID-supplied condoms and other forms of contraception. This, they argue, negatively impacts the ability of these NGOs to distribute birth control, leading to a downturn in contraceptive use and from there to an increase in the rates of unintended pregnancies and abortion. A study of nations in sub-Saharan Africa suggests that unintended pregnancies increased and abortions approximately doubled while the policy was in effect. Critics also argue that the ban promotes restrictions on free speech as well as restrictions on accurate medical information. The European Parliamentary Forum on Population and Development presented a petition to the United
Sometimes I was the only 'no' vote on the entire board. [SEP] Wilma B. Liebman // the board's decision-making ... much more divisive". She clashed repeatedly with Battista during a hearing before the House Committee on Education and Labor in December 2007, declaring "Virtually every recent policy choice by the board impedes collective bargaining, creates obstacles to union representation or favors employer interests." "Today, fewer workers have fewer rights and weaker remedies under the National Labor Relations Act," she continued. She also accused Battista and other Republican members of the Board of "narrowly casting existing precedent" and ignoring precedents "if they stand in the way of a desired result." She portrayed the majority's view of the
Sometimes I was the only 'no' vote on the entire board. [SEP] John C. Truesdale // a profit. In 1977, the Board had held in "Shopping Kart Food Market", 228 NLRB 1311 (1977) that elections should only be set aside only when egregious misstatements of fact occurred during election campaigning. Walther voted with other Republican-appointed Board members to uphold the election, arguing that the Board's duty to quickly certify elections was more important than its duty to assure fair elections. The "General Knit" decision overturned "Shopping Kart Food Market" and restored the Board's old rule as handed down in "Hollywood Ceramics." Truesdale provided the critical third vote in the case. Carter nominated Truesdale for a full
Sometimes I was the only 'no' vote on the entire board. [SEP] The Daily Campus // about the incident in his autobiography, remarking that he wished he had spoken to her privately instead of chastising her in front of the press. In 2015 the Daily Campus switched to a board composed entirely of student voters, rather than the mixture of professionals (non-students) and students that have served on the board since the seventies. The decision was made after the University threatened to take away funding from the paper. They could have potentially lost over 300,000 dollars in student fees. Fees which account for nearly 3/4s of the papers total income. Prior to the decision, the 9
Sometimes I was the only 'no' vote on the entire board. [SEP] Lost Dogs' Home // votes to block the election of a new director, and its refusal to answer several questions from the floor. Supporters of the unsuccessful board candidate, Georgia Murphy, sought legal advice over whether the board breached regulations by quietly reopening membership so soon before the AGM and apparently inviting people to join. Chair of the board Prue Gillies also used the hundreds of new proxy votes to block a motion to have her removed." An Extraordinary Meeting saw the Constitution amended on topics of conduct and voting rights on 13 July 2017. a. Life Members were no longer entitled to vote
Sometimes I was the only 'no' vote on the entire board. [SEP] Lottie Beebe // education. Beebe was the only board member who voted against White's in 2012. Beebe said that she does not rely on teacher unions for her comments, as her critics contend: "My talking points are my talking points." She questions why so many BESE votes are nine-to-two and considers her colleagues, with the exception of Democrat Carolyn Hill of Baton Rouge, another frequent dissenter, "great people" [but] "rubber stamps" for the Jindal-White educational agenda. Known for her opposition to the Common Core program, Beebe was handily unseated in the primary election held on October 24, 2015, by another Republican, Sandy Holloway,
Sometimes I was the only 'no' vote on the entire board. [SEP] Dorothy Dugger // the termination. However, discussion of Dugger's resignation was not included in the board meeting agenda, which violated the Brown Act. Board member Joel Keller, who opposed forcing Dugger to resign, brought in district counsel Matthew Burrows to examine the legality of the vote, and Burrows agreed that the vote was illegal. The Board later admitted to the illegality of the vote. The main reasons cited by Board members who wanted to get rid of Dugger were her poor communication skills, bad interactions with the board, poor handling of the shooting of Oscar Grant, and loss of federal funding for the
Sometimes I was the only 'no' vote on the entire board. [SEP] Alexander Gonzalez // his heavy use of top-down decision making. The full no confidence resolution can be found here http://www.csus.edu/acse/archive/0607/07fsm_apr_5.htm. The non-binding faculty vote would have no effect on Gonzalez's presidency, a position served under the discretion of the CSU Chancellor. The faculty vote also recommended that"the Faculty direct the Faculty Senate to develop a list which sets forth specific actions that the President must take with respect to the matters raised in this resolutions in order to restore the quality of the instructional program and the Faculty’s confidence in his leadership." Gonzalez's response to the vote created more tensions between the administration
Sometimes I was the only 'no' vote on the entire board. [SEP] Wilma B. Liebman // that the Board had made "some rather dramatic shifts in <nowiki>[labor]</nowiki> policy ... what this board is doing is giving much more focus to the right to refrain <nowiki>[from union organizing]</nowiki> than the underlying policy goal of encouraging collective bargaining." She was outspoken as a Member about what she perceived to be the failings of the Republican majority on the Board during her first 10 years in office. "By virtually all measures this law is derelict if not dead," she told a labor law conference in May 2007. She felt that Chair Robert J. Battista had made the "board and
Sometimes I was the only 'no' vote on the entire board. [SEP] Mary Edna Hill Gray Dow // by those she chose. Several among the Dover gentlemen, who desired to be on the board, said that they would not vote for a woman for president as it was simply preposterous and meant bankruptcy. But the matter was presented to the gentlemen in this form: Agree to vote for Mrs. Dow, and you can hold office; otherwise you can not. They succumbed, but with chagrin and trepidation. After her election to the presidency, her first moves as general manager were to double the insurance on the property, inaugurate a system of cash payments, thereby avoiding debts, and getting on
Sometimes I was the only 'no' vote on the entire board. [SEP] Margaret Hughes (Los Angeles) // women's activist Caroline Severance and 2 votes for Mrs. Hughes. In a second ballot, Mrs. Hughes received 4 votes and Smith received 3. Nevertheless, Board President Beal ruled that no election had taken place because the board's rules required five affirmative votes for such a decision, and therefore Mrs. Hughes was not seated. The next fortnight Mrs. Hughes stayed home and sent an attorney. After hearing a letter from City Attorney Charles H. McFarland that the Hughes appointment was not valid, the board decided by five votes with three abstentions to appoint William W. Hitchcock to Shafer's seat. In October
Trial Shows Cystic Fibrosis Drug Helped Ease Breathing [SEP] Denufosol // with the compound. The drug was also investigated for the treatment of retinal detachment and other retinal diseases, but trials were terminated in 2006. In Phase III studies, denufosol was orally inhaled by patients with cystic fibrosis three times a day using a jet nebulizer. To be effective, it had to reach the deeper parts of the lung (bronchioles), making it unsuitable for children under five years of age. Cystic fibrosis is characterised by a defect of the chloride channel CFTR (cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator) on epithelial cells in the lungs. The CFTR regulates the components of sweat, digestive
Trial Shows Cystic Fibrosis Drug Helped Ease Breathing [SEP] Cystic fibrosis // viscosity. Denufosol, an investigational drug, opens an alternative chloride channel, helping to liquefy mucus. Whether inhaled corticosteroids are useful is unclear, but stopping inhaled corticosteroid therapy is safe. There is weak evidence that corticosteroid treatment may cause harm by interfering with growth. Pneumococcal vaccination has not been studied . , there is no clear evidence from randomized controlled trials that the influenza vaccine is beneficial for people with cystic fibrosis. Ivacaftor is a medication taken by mouth for the treatment of CF due to a number of specific mutations responsive to ivacaftor-induced CFTR protein enhancement. It improves lung function by
Trial Shows Cystic Fibrosis Drug Helped Ease Breathing [SEP] Ivacaftor // to a mutation called G551D. The safety and efficacy of ivacaftor for the treatment of cystic fibrosis in patients with this mutation was examined in 2 clinical trials. The first trial was performed in adults having baseline respiratory function (FEV1) between 32% and 98% of normal for persons of similar age, height, and weight. The baseline average was 64%. Improvement in FEV1 was rapid and sustained. At the end of 48 weeks, people treated with ivacaftor had on average an absolute increase in FEV1 of 10.4%, vs. a decline of 0.2% in the placebo group. Pulmonary exacerbations were reduced by
Trial Shows Cystic Fibrosis Drug Helped Ease Breathing [SEP] Gene therapy // immune response) removed using CRISPR-Cas9. A 2016 Cochrane systematic review looking at data from four trials on topical cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) gene therapy does not support its clinical use as a mist inhaled into the lungs to treat cystic fibrosis patients with lung infections. One of the four trials did find weak evidence that liposome-based CFTR gene transfer therapy may lead to a small respiratory improvement for people with CF. This weak evidence is not enough to make a clinical recommendation for routine CFTR gene therapy. In February Kite Pharma announced results from a clinical trial of
Trial Shows Cystic Fibrosis Drug Helped Ease Breathing [SEP] Cystic fibrosis // help push air into their lungs. These machines, known as bilevel positive airway pressure (BiPAP) ventilators, help prevent low blood oxygen levels during sleep. Non-invasive ventilators may be used during physical therapy to improve sputum clearance. It is not known if this type of therapy has an impact on pulmonary exacerbations or disease progression. It is not known what role non-invasive ventilation therapy has for improving exercise capacity in people with cystic fibrosis. During severe illness, a tube may be placed in the throat (a procedure known as a tracheostomy) to enable breathing supported by a ventilator. For children, preliminary
Trial Shows Cystic Fibrosis Drug Helped Ease Breathing [SEP] Cystic fibrosis // full-length protein. The aminoglycoside gentamicin has been used to treat lung cells from CF patients in the laboratory to induce the cells to grow full-length proteins. Another drug targeting nonsense mutations is ataluren, which is undergoing Phase III clinical trials . Cystic fibrosis Cystic fibrosis (CF) is a genetic disorder that affects mostly the lungs, but also the pancreas, liver, kidneys, and intestine. Long-term issues include difficulty breathing and coughing up mucus as a result of frequent lung infections. Other signs and symptoms may include sinus infections, poor growth, fatty stool, clubbing of the fingers and toes, and infertility in
Trial Shows Cystic Fibrosis Drug Helped Ease Breathing [SEP] Orla Tinsley // campaign to get Kalydeco into Ireland after experts rejected making the drug available because it was too expensive. The drug is the first to treat the cause of cystic fibrosis and not just the symptoms. In February 2013 the Minister for Health announced that the drug would be made available. Since late 2013 Ms Tinsley is one of the first people in the world to be treated by the second new cystic fibrosis drug lumacaftor/ivacaftor which treats the most common mutation of CF. The drug has proven to improve lung function and health for people with CF. In 2014 Ms
Trial Shows Cystic Fibrosis Drug Helped Ease Breathing [SEP] Denufosol // Denufosol Denufosol (INN) is an inhaled drug for the treatment of cystic fibrosis, being developed by Inspire Pharmaceuticals and sponsored by the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation. It was tested in two Phase III clinical trials, TIGER-1 and TIGER-2. Initially, in the first Phase III trial, TIGER-1, the compound showed significant results as compared with placebo. In the second Phase III trial, TIGER-2, the compound did not meet the primary endpoint, a significant change in baseline FEV1 (forced expiratory volume in one second) at the week 48 endpoint as compared to placebo. As of 2011, no additional clinical studies are being conducted
Trial Shows Cystic Fibrosis Drug Helped Ease Breathing [SEP] Cystic fibrosis // to improve lung function by impeding the growth of colonized bacteria. Inhaled antibiotic therapy helps lung function by fighting infection, but also has significant drawbacks such as development of antibiotic resistance, tinnitus, and changes in the voice. Inhaled levofloxacin may be used to treat "Pseudomonas aeruginosa" in people with cystic fibrosis who are infected. The early management of Pseudomonas aeruginosa infection is easier and better, using nebulised antibiotics with or without oral antibiotics may sustain its eradication up to 2 years. Antibiotics by mouth such as ciprofloxacin or azithromycin are given to help prevent infection or to control ongoing infection.
Trial Shows Cystic Fibrosis Drug Helped Ease Breathing [SEP] Cystic fibrosis // can significantly improve QOL. No definitive cure for CF is known, but diverse medications are used, such as mucolytics, bronchodilators, steroids, and antibiotics, that have the purpose of loosening mucus, expanding airways, decreasing inflammation, and fighting lung infections, respectively. Cystic fibrosis is the most common life-limiting autosomal recessive disease among people of European heritage. In the United States, about 30,000 individuals have CF; most are diagnosed by six months of age. In Canada, about 4,000 people have CF. Around 1 in 25 people of European descent, and one in 30 of Caucasian Americans, is a carrier of a CF mutation.
Fish Oil Pills During Pregnancy Might Mean Stronger, Healthier Kids [SEP] Fish oil // for memory or concentration in later life". Diets supplemented with cod liver oil have shown beneficial effects on psoriasis. Some studies reported better psychomotor development at 30 months of age in infants whose mothers received fish oil supplements for the first four months of lactation. In addition, five-year-old children whose mothers received modest algae based docosahexaenoic acid supplementation for the first 4 months of breastfeeding performed better on a test of sustained attention. This suggests that docosahexaenoic acid intake during early infancy confers long-term benefits on specific aspects of neurodevelopment. In addition, provision of fish oil during pregnancy may reduce
Fish Oil Pills During Pregnancy Might Mean Stronger, Healthier Kids [SEP] Fish oil // aggressive prostate cancer with higher blood levels of combined EPA and DHA. Some evidence indicated an association between high blood levels of omega-3 fatty acids and an increased prostate cancer risk. Fish oil supplement studies have failed to support claims of preventing heart attacks or strokes. Earlier, in 2007, the American Heart Association had recommended the consumption of 1 gram of fish oil daily, preferably by eating fish, for patients with coronary artery disease, but cautioned pregnant and nursing women to avoid eating fish with high potential for mercury contaminants including mackerel, shark, and swordfish. (Optimal dosage was related to
Fish Oil Pills During Pregnancy Might Mean Stronger, Healthier Kids [SEP] Omega-3 fatty acid // specific learning disorders". Another review concluded that the evidence is inconclusive for the use of omega−3 fatty acids in behavior and non-neurodegenerative neuropsychiatric disorders such as ADHD and depression. Fish oil has only a small benefit on the risk of premature birth. A 2015 meta-analysis of the effect of omega−3 supplementation during pregnancy did not demonstrate a decrease in the rate of preterm birth or improve outcomes in women with singleton pregnancies with no prior preterm births. A systematic review and meta-analysis published the same year reached the opposite conclusion, specifically, that omega−3 fatty acids were effective in "preventing early
Fish Oil Pills During Pregnancy Might Mean Stronger, Healthier Kids [SEP] Fish oil // an infant’s sensitization to common food allergens and reduce the prevalence and severity of certain skin diseases in the first year of life. This effect may persist until adolescence with a reduction in prevalence and/or severity of eczema, hay fever and asthma. A 2014 Cochrane review found that, based on two large studies, fish oil supplements did not appear to be effective for maintenance of remission in Crohn's disease. Fish oil is a commonly used dietary supplement, with sales in the U.S. alone reaching $976 million in 2009. Problems of quality have been identified in periodic tests by independent researchers
Fish Oil Pills During Pregnancy Might Mean Stronger, Healthier Kids [SEP] Docosahexaenoic acid // milk levels remain a concern for supplying adequate DHA to the developing fetus. Fish oil is widely sold in capsules containing a mixture of omega-3 fatty acids, including EPA and DHA. Oxidized fish oil in supplement capsules may contain lower levels of EPA and DHA. An abundance of DHA in seafood has been suggested as being helpful in the development of a large brain, though other researchers claim a terrestrial diet could also have provided the necessary DHA. Docosahexaenoic acid Docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) is an omega-3 fatty acid that is a primary structural component of the human brain, cerebral cortex,
Fish Oil Pills During Pregnancy Might Mean Stronger, Healthier Kids [SEP] Docosahexaenoic acid // oil capsules did not reduce postpartum depression in mothers or improve cognitive and language development in their offspring during early childhood. Another systematic review found that DHA had no significant benefits in improving visual field in individuals with retinitis pigmentosa. A 2017 pilot study found that fish oil supplementation reduced the depression symptoms emphasizing the importance of the target DHA levels. It has been recommended to eat foods which are high in omega-3 fatty acids for women who want to become pregnant or when nursing. A working group from the International Society for the Study of Fatty Acids and Lipids
Fish Oil Pills During Pregnancy Might Mean Stronger, Healthier Kids [SEP] Nutrition and pregnancy // considered as important for fetal neurodevelopment. Additionally, fish are good sources of vitamins A, D, and B12, as well as the mineral iodine. Due to risks of heavy-metal toxicity on fetal neurodevelopment, many mothers are concerned about eating fish during pregnancy. Overall, current research favors the notion that the benefits of fish consumption during pregnancy outweigh the risks; however, the type of fish is important. Current research suggests that 2-3 servings of low-methylmercury containing fish per week in pregnancy is both safe and beneficial. Mercury accumulates in fish through their own diet (bioaccumulation). A general rule of thumb is that
Fish Oil Pills During Pregnancy Might Mean Stronger, Healthier Kids [SEP] Seafood mislabelling // proper species knowledge can make it difficult to ensure proper storage conditions both for suppliers and consumers of fish. Pregnant women are warned against eating certain fish during pregnancy. Most notably, the fish not recommended for consumption during pregnancy are shark, tilefish, swordfish, and king mackerel. When people eat the types of fish that are high in methylmercury, it can accumulate in the blood stream over time and may take over a year for the levels to drop significantly. Thus, it may be present in a woman even before she becomes pregnant. Thus, women who are trying to become pregnant
Fish Oil Pills During Pregnancy Might Mean Stronger, Healthier Kids [SEP] Fish oil // has been shown to be high. Fish oil supplements are available as liquids or capsules. Some capsules are enteric-coated to pass through the stomach before dissolving in the small intestine, thus helping prevent indigestion and "fish burps". Poorly manufactured enteric-coated products have the potential to release ingredients too early. ConsumerLab.com, a for-profit supplement testing company, reported that 1 of the 24 enteric-coated fish oil supplements it evaluated released ingredients prematurely. Fish oil preparations that are only available with a doctor's prescription undergo the same FDA regulatory requirements as other prescription pharmaceuticals, with regard to both efficacy and safety. A 2013
Fish Oil Pills During Pregnancy Might Mean Stronger, Healthier Kids [SEP] Fish oil // depressive symptoms. The studies provided evidence that EPA may be more efficacious than DHA in treating depression. However, this metastudy concluded that due to the identified limitations of the included studies, larger, randomized trials are needed to confirm these findings. In a 2011 meta-analysis of PubMed articles about fish oil and depression from 1965 to 2010, researchers found that "nearly all of the treatment efficacy observed in the published literature may be attributable to publication bias." A 2014 meta-analysis of eleven trials conducted respectively on patients with a DSM-defined diagnosis of major depressive disorder (MDD) and of eight trials with
Clusters of illness linked to CBD vapes share 2nd connection. [SEP] Cannabis (drug) // cannabis smoking was associated with lung cancer risk, though it could not rule out whether an association with heavy smoking exists. Another 2015 meta-analysis found no association between lifetime cannabis use and risk of head or neck cancer. Combustion products are not present when using a vaporizer, consuming THC in pill form, or consuming cannabis foods. There is concern that cannabis may contribute to cardiovascular disease. evidence of an association is unclear. The relationship between cannabis and cardiovascular disease has been poorly studied as of 2017. Cannabis is believed to be an aggravating factor in rare cases of arteritis, a
Clusters of illness linked to CBD vapes share 2nd connection. [SEP] Cannabis (drug) // smoking on the respiratory system. Chronic heavy marijuana smoking is associated with coughing, production of sputum, wheezing, and other symptoms of chronic bronchitis. The available evidence does not support a causal relationship between cannabis use and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Short-term use of cannabis is associated with bronchodilation. Cannabis smoke contains thousands of organic and inorganic chemical compounds. This tar is chemically similar to that found in tobacco smoke, and over fifty known carcinogens have been identified in cannabis smoke, including; nitrosamines, reactive aldehydes, and polycylic hydrocarbons, including benz[a]pyrene. Cannabis smoke is also inhaled more deeply than is tobacco smoke.
Clusters of illness linked to CBD vapes share 2nd connection. [SEP] Schizoaffective disorder // young people who use cannabis later develop psychosis, but those who do use cannabis have an increased odds ratio of about 3. There is evidence that the two major component cannabinoids in cannabis have different effects: tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), which causes a "high," may increase propensity to psychosis; while cannabidiol (CBD), which doesn't cause a "high" and may have neuroprotective effects—that is, reduce psychosis and have mood stabilizing effects. About half of those with schizoaffective disorder use drugs or alcohol excessively. There is evidence that alcohol abuse via a kindling mechanism can occasionally cause the development of a chronic substance induced
Clusters of illness linked to CBD vapes share 2nd connection. [SEP] Synthetic cannabinoids // and congestion of most internal organs. The fourth case presented to the hospital with severe problems that deteriorated over the course of a day, ending with circulatory, respiratory, central nervous system, and renal failure. Studies are currently available that suggest an association between synthetic cannabinoids and psychosis. The use of synthetic cannabinoids can be associated with psychosis and physicians are beginning to investigate if some patients with inexplicable psychotic symptoms may have at one point used synthetic cannabinoids. In contrast to most other recreational drugs, the dramatic psychotic state induced by use of synthetic cannabinoids has been reported, in multiple
Clusters of illness linked to CBD vapes share 2nd connection. [SEP] Synthetic cannabinoids // three of which have been shown to be full agonists of the CB receptors, compared to the metabolism of THC, which only results in one psychoactive monohydroxylated metabolite. This may further explain the increased toxicity of synthetic cannabinoids compared to THC. Four postmortem cases linked to the synthetic cannabinoids 5F-PB-22 have been reviewed. The postmortem blood specimens contained a range of 1.1-1.5 ng/mL of 5F-PB-22. Three of the four cases were sudden episodes and the symptoms leading to death included acute shortness of breath; vasocongestion in the liver, spleen, and kidneys; bilateral pulmonary edema; dead inflamed tissue (necrotizing granulomatous inflammation);
Clusters of illness linked to CBD vapes share 2nd connection. [SEP] Cannabis smoking // frequent cigarette smoking by cannabis users; low rate of addiction compared to tobacco; and episodic nature of cannabis use compared to steady frequent smoking of tobacco. A 2013 literature review said that exposure to cannabis had biologically-based physical, mental, behavioral and social health consequences and was "associated with diseases of the liver (particularly with co-existing hepatitis C), lungs, heart, and vasculature". The authors cautioned that "evidence is needed, and further research should be considered, to prove causal associations of marijuana with many physical health conditions". Cannabis smoking Cannabis smoking is the inhalation of smoke or vapors released by heating the
Clusters of illness linked to CBD vapes share 2nd connection. [SEP] Long-term effects of cannabis // inhaling cannabis smoke deeply and holding breath could lead to pneumothorax. In a few case reports involving immunocompromised patients, pulmonary infections such as aspergillosis have been attributed to smoking cannabis contaminated with fungi. The transmission of tuberculosis has been linked to cannabis inhalation techniques, such as sharing water pipes and 'Hotboxing'. A study released by the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine cited significant evidence for a statistical link between mothers who smoke cannabis during pregnancy and lower birth weights of their babies. Cannabis consumption in pregnancy is associated with restrictions in growth of the fetus, miscarriage, and cognitive
Clusters of illness linked to CBD vapes share 2nd connection. [SEP] Cannabinoid // (THCV) is prevalent in certain central Asian and southern African strains of "Cannabis". It is an antagonist of THC at CB receptors and lessens the psychoactive effects of THC. Although cannabidivarin (CBDV) is usually a minor constituent of the cannabinoid profile, enhanced levels of CBDV have been reported in feral cannabis plants from the northwest Himalayas, and in hashish from Nepal. Cannabichromene (CBC) is non-psychoactive and does not affect the psychoactivity of THC. CBC has shown antitumor effects in breast cancer xenoplants in mice. More common in tropical cannabis varieties. Cannabinoid production starts when an enzyme causes geranyl pyrophosphate and
Clusters of illness linked to CBD vapes share 2nd connection. [SEP] Effects of cannabis // component of marijuana, tetrahydrocannabinol (THC)." Cannabis contaminated with "Salmonella muenchen" was positively correlated with dozens of cases of salmonellosis in 1981. "Thermophilic actinomycetes" were also found in cannabis. Exposure to marijuana may have biologically-based physical, mental, behavioral and social health consequences and is "associated with diseases of the liver (particularly with co-existing hepatitis C), lungs, heart, eyesight and vasculature" according to a 2013 literature review by Gordon and colleagues. The association with these diseases has only been reported in cases where people have smoked cannabis. The authors cautioned that "evidence is needed, and further research should be considered, to prove
Clusters of illness linked to CBD vapes share 2nd connection. [SEP] Cannabis sativa // ratios are less likely to induce anxiety than vice versa. This may be due to CBD's antagonistic effects at the cannabinoid receptors, compared to THC's partial agonist effect. CBD is also a 5-HT receptor (serotonin) agonist, which may also contribute to an anxiolytic-content effect. The effects of "sativa" are well known for its cerebral high, while "indica" is well known for its sedative effects which some prefer for night time use. Both types are used as medical cannabis. "Indica" plants are normally shorter and stockier than "sativas". They have broader, deeply serrated leaves and a compact and dense flower cluster.
HIV in America: Studies zero in on trouble spots. [SEP] Index case // On", which identified Patient Zero as Gaëtan Dugas. Dugas was a flight attendant who was sexually promiscuous in several North American cities, according to Shilts' book. He was vilified for several years as a "mass spreader" of HIV, and seen as the original source of the HIV epidemic among homosexual men. Four years later, Darrow repudiated the study's methodology and how Shilts had represented its conclusions. A 2007 study published in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America by Michael Worobey and Dr. Arthur Pitchenik claimed that, based on the results of genetic
HIV in America: Studies zero in on trouble spots. [SEP] Index case // by Dr. William Darrow and colleagues at the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). This epidemiological study showed how "patient zero" had infected multiple partners with HIV, and they, in turn, transmitted it to others and rapidly spread the virus to locations all over the world (Auerbach et al., 1984). The CDC identified Gaëtan Dugas as a carrier of the virus from Europe to the United States and spreading it to other men he encountered at gay bathhouses. Journalist Randy Shilts subsequently wrote about Patient Zero, based on Darrow's findings, in his 1987 book "And the Band Played
HIV in America: Studies zero in on trouble spots. [SEP] Gaëtan Dugas // the epidemic. A number of authorities have since voiced reservations about the implications of the CDC's Patient Zero study and characterizations of Dugas as being responsible for bringing HIV to cities like Los Angeles and San Francisco. In the Patient Zero study, the average length of time between sexual contact and the onset of symptoms was months. While Shilts's book does not make such an allegation, the rumor that Dugas was the principal disseminator of the virus became widespread. In 1988, Andrew R. Moss published an opposing view in "The New York Review of Books". In 2016, a group of
HIV in America: Studies zero in on trouble spots. [SEP] HIV/AIDS in North America // for Disease and Control and Prevention (CDC), African-American accounted for 44% of all new HIV infections in the United States between 2010 and 2016, although African-Americans make up roughly 12% of the American population. The extent of the HIV/AIDS crisis within the African-American community is an indication that the solution will also need to be multi-faceted ranging from increasing access to health care to reducing the stigma that HIV and homosexuality has within the African-American community. HIV/AIDS in North America As of 2016, it is estimated that there are 1.5 million adults and children living with HIV/AIDS in North America,
HIV in America: Studies zero in on trouble spots. [SEP] Anke Ehrhardt // National Institute of Mental Health. Over its more than 20 year history, the HIV Center has conducted groundbreaking work in behavioral research both in the US and abroad. Under Ehrhardt’s leadership, the HIV Center has focused in particular on the intersection of HIV infection with gender, sexuality, and mental health. In recognition of her work, Ehrhardt has been presented with the Distinguished Research Leadership Award from the American Psychological Association in 1986; the Research Award "For Excellence in Research" from the State of New York Office of Mental Health in 1990; the Award for Distinguished Scientific Achievement for 1991 from
HIV in America: Studies zero in on trouble spots. [SEP] Nancy Romero-Daza // in Monteverde and is currently working on an NSF-funded research project on the impact of tourism on food security in the surrounding geographical area. During her time at the Hispanic Health Council, Romero-Daza studied AIDS, violence, and health issues. She continued her work at the University of South Florida, focusing on substance abuse. Through her research on HIV/AIDS in North America and Africa, Romero-Daza focused on the need for HIV/AIDS research that looks at the social, political, and economic contexts of HIV/AIDS epidemics, concentrating specifically on both the local and global contexts. Romero-Daza's publications address several areas of anthropological inquiry,
HIV in America: Studies zero in on trouble spots. [SEP] William Darrow // "The Zero Factor," part one of the four-part documentary, "A Time of AIDS", which was shown on the Discovery Channel. At the CDC, Darrow's work primarily focused on the social variables of sexually transmitted diseases, especially among homosexual men. In 1981, his focus shifted from condom use and diseases such as syphilis and gonorrhea to HIV/AIDS. Since then, Darrow has devoted his study and career to finding a cure for HIV/AIDS. Darrow was honored with the 1992 Norwich Native Son Award. William Darrow William "Bill" Darrow, Ph.D. is a Professor of Public Health at Florida International University (FIU) in Miami,
HIV in America: Studies zero in on trouble spots. [SEP] Index case // analysis, current North American strains of HIV probably moved from Africa to Haiti and then entered the United States around 1969, probably through a single immigrant. However, Robert Rayford died in St. Louis, Missouri, of complications from AIDS in 1969, and most likely became infected before 1966, so there were prior carriers of HIV strains in North America. The phrase "patient zero" is now used in the media to refer to the primary case for infectious disease outbreaks, as well as for computer virus outbreaks, and, more broadly, as the source of ideas or actions that have far-reaching consequences. David
HIV in America: Studies zero in on trouble spots. [SEP] Infectious diseases within American prisons // to the high rate of HIV that exists within prisons and the carceral system, these sites are crucial in educating individuals for further infection. The National Commission on Correctional Health Care conducted a study evaluating current modes of handling HIV through prevention programs across the US. In particular, one of the researchers explored peer education in the forms of curriculum modeled after the American Red Cross and California's "Reach One, Teach One" program. By discussing methods in which infected individuals can be educated, the spread of infectious diseases can be reduced by an appreciable margin. Although there is near consensus
HIV in America: Studies zero in on trouble spots. [SEP] Ann Kurth // several years, studying the prevalence of HIV in different communities. They are looking to pilot a SMART intervention to link HIV-positive women youth for treatment, including oral fluid self-testing, staff-aided testing and standard provider testing to determine a population's preference for HIV testing. They use reminder SMS messages and financial incentives to link to care. She has consulted for the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, UNAIDS, United States Agency for International Development and the National Institutes of Health. She was made a fellow of the Institute Of Medicine in 2013. She was a member of the American Academy of Nursing
Inmate awaiting mental health treatment dies in Aspen jail. [SEP] HM Prison Winchester // deaths in Winchester Prison. Daryl Hargrave aged 22 hanged himself in Winchester Prison on 19th July, 2015, a day after another prisoner at the jail took his life. The inquest into Hargrave's death found adequate mental health care had not been provided, despite repeated warnings Hargrave was risk of self harm. Hargrave had repeatedly self-harmed and attempted suicide and suffered mental health problems from a young age. In the days before his death Hargrave was clearly psychotic and told staff he planned to harm himself according to lawyers. The day before his suicide, Hargrave cut himself and told a nurse
Inmate awaiting mental health treatment dies in Aspen jail. [SEP] McConnell Unit // Darrel Wafer, a 40-year old prisoner, was left in a hot shower. Because guards and a nurse did not remove him in time, Wafer died of hyperthermia. On August 1, 2004, prisoner Micah "Mike" Burrell died of an asthma attack. According to Texas Civil Rights Project attorney Scott Medlock, the prison guards decided not to assist him, and 15 other people (by 2007) had died due to negligence issues. Eileen Kennedy, the assistant warden of McConnell at the time, stated that she was unaware that a policy stating that an asthmatic should not be housed alone existed. In 2013, in
Inmate awaiting mental health treatment dies in Aspen jail. [SEP] Natasha McKenna // Fairfax County Police -- who are responsible for investigations of prisoner deaths. There were no criminal charges to the officers involved in McKenna's death. The Virginia medical examiner's office made the determination that McKenna's cause of death was accidental, due to excited delirium, but that it was linked to the use of the stun gun. Use of the stun gun was questioned as being an excessive use of force on a restrained person. The use of tasers was suspended by the Fairfax County Sheriff's Office in April 2015. The question of treating mentally ill prisoners was also a focus of
Inmate awaiting mental health treatment dies in Aspen jail. [SEP] Arizona State Prison Complex – Phoenix // has a design capacity of 207; another 40 beds are in B-Ward, the Treatment Center; and there are 65 beds designated for resident workers (F-area). The other units are Aspen DWI, a 200-bed facility which opened in 1983 for adult males incarcerated under the state Driving While Intoxicated (DWI) law; Now called Aspen MTU, It is operated as a Mental Health treatment facility for male inmates that are mentally ill but higher functioning. Flamenco Mental Health Center, a licensed 105-bed psychiatric hospital for adult males which opened in 1985 and now is used to house Protective segregation and Max custody
Inmate awaiting mental health treatment dies in Aspen jail. [SEP] Indian Creek Correctional Center // of mental illness, such as placing Longmire on suicide watch, or removing bedding and other objects he could use to injure himself. Longmire had been held in solitary confinement as a punitive measure for misconduct from October 5, 2014, until his death, 34 days later. In May 2016, nine inmates suspected of using scheduled narcotics were hospitalized with overdose symptoms. One of the inmates tested positive for opioids. The Virginia Department of Corrections stated procedural changes to visitation by the public may stem as a result of the incident. Indian Creek Correctional Center The Indian Creek Correctional Center (ICCC) is
Inmate awaiting mental health treatment dies in Aspen jail. [SEP] Prisoners' rights in New Zealand // mental health is, given it is not a core function of the Department of Corrections. Antonie Dixon exemplifies the failures identified above. In 2009, Mr Dixon committed suicide inside his at-risk cell. This was after several previous attempts inside the same prison. In his final moments, prison officers waited 7 minutes for other prison officers as back up, before entering the cell. It was held by Coroner Gary Evans that had Mr Dixon been correctly referred to mental health services, then he would still have been alive today. In New Zealand, tie down bed and restraints are not allowed to
Inmate awaiting mental health treatment dies in Aspen jail. [SEP] Dwight Correctional Center // serve a life sentence. Less than two months later Amanda Wallace, who had been incarcerated for the murder of husband and, after early release, again for the murder of her 3-year-old son, attempted suicide. Using a strip of cloth from her robe to hang herself, she was hospitalized in critical condition and removed from life support on August 2. She had previously attempted suicide using the elastic from her underwear. In December 1997 Ella May Scott, who also went by the name “Kim Ball,” died of an overdose of Elavil that had been smuggled from the prison pharmacy. The pharmacy's
Inmate awaiting mental health treatment dies in Aspen jail. [SEP] Mountain Institution // cell while a second inmate, Trevor Wayne O'Brien (25), died of a drug overdose (200 ml of 175 mg methadone, first time he'd tried it) later in hospital. This is not the first time an inmate convicted of sexual offenses involving children has died in this prison facility. The last death involved James Patrick Jones, (55), a man convicted of sex offences involving children was found dead in his cell by prison guards on March 17, 2007. The riot was initiated by inmates in response to what was deemed extreme measures taken to curtail the drug trade within the prison.
Inmate awaiting mental health treatment dies in Aspen jail. [SEP] James Holmes (mass murderer) // Colorado Mental Health Institute in Pueblo, Colorado. By August 20, 2013, Holmes was no longer detained at Colorado Mental Health Institute; he was transferred back to jail. On February 27, 2014, Arapahoe County District Court Judge Carlos Samour set the start of Holmes' trial for October 14. However, the trial was delayed to December 8 upon a defense request for a continuance to further evaluate Holmes's mental condition. On that date, the trial was again postponed as Holmes' lawyers asked for another continuance to further prepare their case and review the paperwork of evidence. Jury selection eventually started on January
Inmate awaiting mental health treatment dies in Aspen jail. [SEP] Laura's Law // Counties Achievement Award in Health was awarded to Nevada County for the Assisted Outpatient Treatment Program. Laura Wilcox was a 19-year-old college sophomore who had been valedictorian of her high school before going on to study at Haverford College. While working at Nevada County's public mental health clinic during her winter break from college, on January 10, 2001, she and two other people were shot to death by Scott Harlan Thorpe, a 40-year-old man who resisted his family's and a social worker's attempt to have him hospitalized when he became increasingly delusional and paranoid. Thorpe was found incompetent to stand
Sanofi to cut U.S. insulin costs for some patients to $99 per month. [SEP] Insulin (medication) // US$2.39 to $10.61 per 1,000 iu of regular insulin and $2.23 to $10.35 per 1,000 iu of NPH insulin. In the United Kingdom 1,000 iu of regular or NPH insulin costs the NHS £7.48, while this amount of insulin glargine costs £30.68. In the United States the unit price of insulin has increased steadily from 1991 to 2014. It rose threefold from 2002 to 2013. Costs can be as high as US$900 per month. Concerns were raised in 2016 of pharmaceutical companies working together to increase prices. In 2006 the U.S. Food and Drug Administration approved the use of Exubera,
Sanofi to cut U.S. insulin costs for some patients to $99 per month. [SEP] Insulin glargine/lixisenatide // pharmacies in January 2017. Following FDA approval of Soliqua, Sanofi made a $25 million milestone payment to Zealand. Zealand may receive additional payments up to $110 million along with receiving royalties on global sales. Royalties paid to Zealand for Soliqua are based on a fixed low double-digit percentage of net sales. In January 2017, Sanofi announced that the wholesale acquisition cost (WAC) of a 3 ml pen of Soliqua is $127. At the average dose used in clinical trials, this amounts to $19.90 per day. According to Sanofi's Half-Year Financial Report, the net sales of Soliqua reached €9 million in
Sanofi to cut U.S. insulin costs for some patients to $99 per month. [SEP] Insulin (medication) // system. The wholesale cost in the developing world is about US$2.39 to $10.61 per 1,000 iu (34.7 mg) of regular insulin and $2.23 to $10.35 per 1,000 iu of NPH insulin. In the United Kingdom 1,000 iu of regular or NPH insulin costs the NHS £7.48, while this amount of insulin glargine costs £30.68. Insulin is used to treat a number of diseases including diabetes and its acute complications such as diabetic ketoacidosis and hyperosmolar hyperglycemic states. It is also used along with glucose to treat high blood potassium levels. Insulin was formerly used in a psychiatric treatment called insulin
Sanofi to cut U.S. insulin costs for some patients to $99 per month. [SEP] Minimed Paradigm // without increasing risk of hypoglycemia. The MiniMed Paradigm 522 and 722 Insulin Pumps have a list price of $6,195 while the optional starter kit for the CGM components list for US $999. Insurance coverage for the CGM system is possible under pharmacy benefits (vs. durable medical benefits which have typically a 20% co-pay). Approximately 30% of American patients with typical "commercial" coverage can process their CGM under pharmacy, while 90% of American patients are actually eligible for coverage if they meet plan requirements. The estimated out-of-pocket cost is US $0.86 per day for pharmacy benefit or US $2.33 per day
Sanofi to cut U.S. insulin costs for some patients to $99 per month. [SEP] Regular insulin // developing world is about US$2.39–10.61 per 1,000 iu of regular insulin. In the United Kingdom 1,000 iu costs the NHS 7.48 pounds, while in the United States this amount is about $134.00. Versions are also available mixed with longer-acting versions of insulin, such as NPH insulin. It is used for the long-term management of diabetes. Regular insulin is the treatment of choice for the two diabetic emergencies diabetic ketoacidosis and hyperosmolar hyperglycemic states. It may also be used in combination with glucose to lower potassium levels in those with hyperkalemia. Side effects may include: low blood sugar levels, skin reactions
Sanofi to cut U.S. insulin costs for some patients to $99 per month. [SEP] Insulin glargine/lixisenatide // around €3 billion in 2009. Sanofi planned to start the Phase III trial that year. Sanofi submitted the new drug application in December 2015 for the combination and spent a $245M priority voucher to gain a faster review, to try to outrace Novo Nordisk’s Xultophy, a similar combination drug of Novo's insulin Tresiba and Novo's GLP-1 agonist Victoza. Sanofi's application was considered by the same Endocrinologic and Metabolic Drugs Advisory FDA Committee that was considering lixisenatide as a single agent. In May 2016 by a vote of 12-2, with several members of the committee expressing reservations about Sanofi's plans to
Sanofi to cut U.S. insulin costs for some patients to $99 per month. [SEP] Etanercept // cost of Enbrel was $1,500 per month or $18,000 per year. By 2011, the cost had exceeded $20,000 per year. In 2013, a survey by the International Federation of Health Plans (IFHP) found that the average U.S. cost for Enbrel was $2,225 per month, or $26,700 per year. The IFHP report also found wide variation in prices charged to various U.S. health plans, between $1,946 per month at the 25th percentile and $4,006 per month at the 95th percentile. Enbrel is more expensive in the U.S. than in other countries. As of 2013, average monthly costs in surveyed nations ranged
Sanofi to cut U.S. insulin costs for some patients to $99 per month. [SEP] Inhalable insulin // trials to ensure that people would use it the same way as the earlier versions. After conducting further studies, Mannkind submitted a new application, and in June, 2014, the FDA approved Afrezza for both Type I and Type II adult diabetics, with a label restriction for patients having asthma, active lung cancer or COPD. In 2014 Mannkind and Sanofi agreed that Sanofi would take over manufacturing and marketing of Afrezza, but Sanofi said it was dropping the effort in January 2016 due to poor sales of $7.5 million in 2015; the companies formally terminated the agreement in November 2016. At
Sanofi to cut U.S. insulin costs for some patients to $99 per month. [SEP] Artificial pancreas // to seven days. The device uses Bluetooth technology to warn the user either through a handheld receiver or app on a smartphone if blood glucose levels reach below a certain point. The cost for this device excluding any co-insurance is an estimated $4,800 a year. Abbott Laboratories' FreeStyle Libre CGM was approved in September 2017. It does not support smartphone use. This device does not require finger pricks at all and the sensor, placed on the upper arm, lasts 10 days. The estimated cost for this monitor is $1,300 a year. Dexcom's next G6 model CGM was approved in March
Sanofi to cut U.S. insulin costs for some patients to $99 per month. [SEP] MannKind Corporation // Village, California. The Afrezza manufacturing facility is in Danbury, Connecticut. Afrezza is an rapid-acting insulin peaking 12 to 15 minutes after inhalation and exiting the body within 2–3 hours. The FDA approved Afrezza on June 27, 2014 with a 13-1 vote for type 1 diabetes and 14-0 vote for type 2 diabetes. On August 11, 2014 MannKind entered into an exclusive global licensing agreement with Sanofi for Afrezza sales. Under the agreement, MannKind received $150 million cash from Sanofi, in exchange for sharing profits and losses of sales of Afrezza, with 65% for Sanofi and 35% for MannKind. On January
New Breast Reconstruction Technique Provides Better Outcomes, Less Discomfort for Women Recovering From Breast Cancer [SEP] Breast reconstruction // affected areas. More than half of women treated for breast cancer develop upper quarter dysfunction, including limits on how well they can move, pain in the breast, shoulder or arm, lymphedema, loss of sensation, and impaired strength. The risk of dysfunction is higher among women who have breast reconstruction surgery. One in three have complications, one in five need further surgery and the procedure fails in 5%. Some methods have specific side effects. The transverse rectus abdominis myocutaneous (TRAM) flap method results in weakness and loss of flexibility in the abdominal wall. Reconstruction with implants have a higher risk of
New Breast Reconstruction Technique Provides Better Outcomes, Less Discomfort for Women Recovering From Breast Cancer [SEP] Breast cancer management // to address identity and emotional aspects of the disease. Reconstruction can take place at the same time as cancer-removing surgery, or months to years later. Some women decide not to have reconstruction or opt for a prosthesis instead. Cryoablation is an experimental therapy available for women with small or early-stage breast cancer. The treatment freezes, than defrosts tumors using small needles so that only the harmful tissue is damaged and ultimately dies. This technique may provide an alternative to more invasive surgeries, potentially limiting side effects. Radiation therapy is an adjuvant treatment for most women who have undergone lumpectomy and
New Breast Reconstruction Technique Provides Better Outcomes, Less Discomfort for Women Recovering From Breast Cancer [SEP] Breast reconstruction // Breast reconstruction Breast reconstruction is the rebuilding of a breast, usually in women. It involves using autologous tissue or prosthetic material to construct a natural-looking breast. Often this includes the reformation of a natural-looking areola and nipple. This procedure involves the use of implants or tissue taken from other parts of the woman's body. Generally, the aesthetic appearance is acceptable to the woman, but the reconstructed area is commonly completely numb afterwards, which results in loss of sexual function as well as the ability to perceive pain caused by burns and other injuries. The primary part of the procedure can
New Breast Reconstruction Technique Provides Better Outcomes, Less Discomfort for Women Recovering From Breast Cancer [SEP] Breast reconstruction // long-term pain. Outcomes-based research on quality of life improvements and psychosocial benefits associated with breast reconstruction served as the stimulus in the United States for the 1998 Women's Health and Cancer Rights Act, which mandated that health care payer cover breast and nipple reconstruction, contralateral procedures to achieve symmetry, and treatment for the sequelae of mastectomy. This was followed in 2001 by additional legislation imposing penalties on noncompliant insurers. Similar provisions for coverage exist in most countries worldwide through national health care programs. Breast reconstruction Breast reconstruction is the rebuilding of a breast, usually in women. It involves using autologous
New Breast Reconstruction Technique Provides Better Outcomes, Less Discomfort for Women Recovering From Breast Cancer [SEP] Breast reconstruction // reconstructive surgery have not been adequately studied in good quality clinical trials. "These days - even after a few million women have had breasts reconstructed - surgeons cannot inform women about the risks and complications of different implant-based breast reconstructive options on the basis of results derived from Randomized Controlled Trials." To restore the appearance of the breast with surgical reconstruction, there are a few options regarding the nipple and areola. The typical outcome of breast reduction surgery is a breast mound with a pleasing aesthetic shape, with a texture similar to a natural breast, but which feels completely or
New Breast Reconstruction Technique Provides Better Outcomes, Less Discomfort for Women Recovering From Breast Cancer [SEP] BRCA mutation // only used in women diagnosed with invasive breast cancer. Techniques for prophylactic mastectomies include: Which technique is used is determined by the existence of any cancer and overall health, as well as by the woman's desire, if any, for breast reconstruction surgery for aesthetic purposes. Women who choose a flat-chested appearance or use external breast prostheses typically choose simple mastectomy, with its greater risk reduction. Breast reconstruction is usually done by a plastic surgeon, and may be started as part of the same multi-hour surgery that removes the breasts. Multiple techniques for reconstruction have been used, with different locations and
New Breast Reconstruction Technique Provides Better Outcomes, Less Discomfort for Women Recovering From Breast Cancer [SEP] Nipple prosthesis // nude appearance than women with only breast mound reconstruction. These women also were happier with erotic breast sensation and tissue softness than women with only breast mounds (Wellish 1985). There is also a psychological benefit of creating the NAC after the surgical reconstruction of the breast. Women with breast mound surgery and nipple reconstruction report an overall greater satisfaction with breast reconstruction, regarding the size, softness, and sexual sensitivity of the breast (Wellish 1987). Similar benefits are achievable with nipple prosthetics. Mass-produced nipple prostheses have been around and readily available for many years. Accessibility, for custom nipple prosthetics, remains a
New Breast Reconstruction Technique Provides Better Outcomes, Less Discomfort for Women Recovering From Breast Cancer [SEP] Breast augmentation // complications, capsular contracture, shell rupture, and device deflation. Revision incidence rates were greater for breast reconstruction patients, because of the post-mastectomy changes to the soft-tissues and to the skin envelope of the breast, and to the anatomical borders of the breast, especially in women who received adjuvant external radiation therapy. Moreover, besides breast reconstruction, breast cancer patients usually undergo revision surgery of the nipple-areola complex (NAC), and symmetry procedures upon the opposite breast, to create a bust of natural appearance, size, form, and feel. Carefully matching the type and size of the breast implants to the patient's pectoral soft-tissue characteristics
New Breast Reconstruction Technique Provides Better Outcomes, Less Discomfort for Women Recovering From Breast Cancer [SEP] Breast reconstruction // often be carried out immediately following the mastectomy. As with many other surgeries, patients with significant medical comorbidities (high blood pressure, obesity, diabetes) and smokers are higher-risk candidates. Surgeons may choose to perform delayed reconstruction to decrease this risk. There is little evidence available from randomised studies to favour immediate or delayed reconstruction. The infection rate may be higher with primary reconstruction (done at the same time as mastectomy), but there are psychologic and financial benefits to having a single primary reconstruction. Patients expected to receive radiation therapy as part of their adjuvant treatment are also commonly considered for delayed
New Breast Reconstruction Technique Provides Better Outcomes, Less Discomfort for Women Recovering From Breast Cancer [SEP] Free flap breast reconstruction // medical complications of the abdominal donor-site, such as hernia, and consequent intestinal protrusion (bulging), and pain. Said conditions require the reinforcement of the woman’s abdominal wall with a synthetic mesh. The woman must be psychologically motivated to undergo such great surgical interventions (reconstruction and harvesting), and she must physically possess sufficient abdominal tissues (skin, muscle, and fat) with which to construct the replacement breast. The division of the superior epigastric blood supply, by a previous surgery, precludes a pedicled TRAM flap as the feasible method for breast reconstruction. A radical mastectomy defect (hole) requiring a great volume of replacement tissue.
Theophilus Van Kannel, who developed the revolving door, did so because of an aversion to holding open doors for women and other acts of chivalry. [SEP] Theophilus Van Kannel // Theophilus Van Kannel Theophilus Van Kannel (1841 – December 24, 1919) was an American inventor, known for inventing the revolving door, patented on August 7, 1888. He was born in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA. Van Kannel, who was recognized for his invention with the John Scott Medal by the Franklin Institute in 1889, founded the "Van Kannel Revolving Door Company", which eventually was bought out by the International Steel Company in 1907. International Steel Company is the parent company of International Revolving Door Company. He invented and owned Witching Waves, an amusement ride introduced at Luna Park, Coney Island, in 1907.
Theophilus Van Kannel, who developed the revolving door, did so because of an aversion to holding open doors for women and other acts of chivalry. [SEP] Theophilus Van Kannel // Van Kannel died in New York City of heart failure and was buried in West Park Cemetery, Cleveland, Ohio. Theophilus Van Kannel Theophilus Van Kannel (1841 – December 24, 1919) was an American inventor, known for inventing the revolving door, patented on August 7, 1888. He was born in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA. Van Kannel, who was recognized for his invention with the John Scott Medal by the Franklin Institute in 1889, founded the "Van Kannel Revolving Door Company", which eventually was bought out by the International Steel Company in 1907. International Steel Company is the parent company of International Revolving
Theophilus Van Kannel, who developed the revolving door, did so because of an aversion to holding open doors for women and other acts of chivalry. [SEP] Revolving door // no evidence that this claim is true. In 1889, the Franklin Institute of Philadelphia awarded the John Scott Legacy Medal to Van Kannel for his contribution to society. In 1899, the world's first wooden revolving door was installed at Rector's, a restaurant on Times Square in Manhattan, located on Broadway between West 43rd and 44th Streets. In 2007 Theophilus Van Kannel was inducted into the National Inventors Hall of Fame for this invention. Research into the air and energy exchanges associated with revolving door usage have been carried out on a few occasions. The earliest such study was carried out
Theophilus Van Kannel, who developed the revolving door, did so because of an aversion to holding open doors for women and other acts of chivalry. [SEP] Revolving door // direction. Theophilus Van Kannel, of Philadelphia, was granted US patent 387,571 on August 7, 1888 for a "Storm-Door Structure". The patent drawings filed show a three-partition revolving door. The patent describes it as having "three radiating and equidistant wings . . . provided with weather-strips or equivalent means to insure a snug fit". The door "possesses numerous advantages over a hinged-door structure . . .it is perfectly noiseless . . . effectually prevents the entrance of wind, snow, rain or dust . . ." "Moreover, the door cannot be blown open by the wind . . . there is no
Theophilus Van Kannel, who developed the revolving door, did so because of an aversion to holding open doors for women and other acts of chivalry. [SEP] Timeline of United States inventions (before 1890) // door has three or four doors that hang on a center shaft and rotate around a vertical axis within a round enclosure. In high-rise buildings, regular doors are hard to open because of air pressure differentials. In order to address this problem, the revolving door was invented in 1888 by Theophilus Van Kannel of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Van Kannel patented the revolving door on August 7, 1888. 1888 Ballpoint pen A ballpoint pen is a writing instrument with an internal ink reservoir and a sphere for a point. The internal chamber is filled with a viscous ink that is dispensed at
Theophilus Van Kannel, who developed the revolving door, did so because of an aversion to holding open doors for women and other acts of chivalry. [SEP] Revolving door // in 1936 by A. M. Simpson, who worked for the van Kannel revolving door company at the time. Simpson's study was followed by a study by Schutrum et al. in 1961, and more recently a study by van Schijndel et al. in 2003. These studies have focused on providing detailed measurements of the quantities of air and heat transferred inside the compartments of a door as it revolves. With the exception of the study by van Schijndel et al., which was purely theoretical, the measurements carried out for the other studies were used to provide design charts enabling engineers to
Theophilus Van Kannel, who developed the revolving door, did so because of an aversion to holding open doors for women and other acts of chivalry. [SEP] Revolving door // possibility of collision, and yet persons can pass both in and out at the same time." The patent further lists, "the excluding of noises of the street" as another advantage of the revolving door. It goes on to describe how a partition can be hinged so as to open to allow the passage of long objects through the revolving door. The patent itself does not use the term "revolving door". An urban legend, dating back to at perhaps 2008, claims that the invention was motivated by his phobia of opening doors for others, especially women; according to Snopes, there is
Theophilus Van Kannel, who developed the revolving door, did so because of an aversion to holding open doors for women and other acts of chivalry. [SEP] Revolving door // prevent people from bypassing fare payment. They are similarly used at large sports stadiums, theme parks, and other such venues, to allow pedestrians to exit freely, but not to enter without paying admission fees. These doors usually work mechanically, with the door panels constructed of horizontal bars which pass through a "wall" of interlacing (interdigitated) bars, allowing the door leaves to pass through, but blocking people from illegally entering through the exit. In 1942, the Cocoanut Grove, a popular nightclub in Boston, Massachusetts, went up in flames killing 492 people. One of the main reasons cited for the large number
Theophilus Van Kannel, who developed the revolving door, did so because of an aversion to holding open doors for women and other acts of chivalry. [SEP] Cocoanut Grove fire // douse the flames to approach the door. Later, after fire laws had tightened, it would become illegal to have only one revolving door as a main entrance without being flanked by outward opening doors with panic bar openers attached, or have the revolving doors set up so that the doors could fold against themselves in emergency situations. Other avenues of escape were similarly useless; side doors had been bolted shut to prevent people from leaving without paying. A plate glass window, which could have been smashed for escape, was boarded up and unusable as an emergency exit. Other unlocked doors,
Theophilus Van Kannel, who developed the revolving door, did so because of an aversion to holding open doors for women and other acts of chivalry. [SEP] Revolving door // of casualties was the single revolving door located at the entrance. As the mob of panicking patrons attempted to use the door as an escape it soon became jammed, trapping countless people between the door and the crowd pushing towards it. As a result, many people died from smoke inhalation, as they were not able to escape the burning nightclub. In 1943, it became a Massachusetts state law requirement to flank a revolving door with an outward swinging hinged door or to make the revolving door collapsible (so it becomes a double partition collapsing at 180°), allowing people to pass
U.S. President Donald Trump golfed several times and held a number of rallies after learning about the threat of the coronavirus. [SEP] Coronavirus // 2013, a case of contamination from human to human in France was confirmed by the French Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. In addition, cases of person-to-person transmission have been reported by the Ministry of Health in Tunisia. Two confirmed cases seem to have caught the disease from their late father, who became ill after a visit to Qatar and Saudi Arabia. By Oct. 30 2013, there were 124 cases and 52 deaths in Saudi Arabia. After the Dutch Erasmus Medical Centre sequenced the virus, the virus was given a new name, Human Corona Virus-Erasmus Medical Centre (HCoV-EMC). The final
U.S. President Donald Trump golfed several times and held a number of rallies after learning about the threat of the coronavirus. [SEP] Donald Trump and golf // Championships. In 2014, the Professional Golfers' Association of America announced a multi-year partnership with The Trump Organization. The PGA of America selected Trump golf courses to host the 2017 Senior PGA Championship and the 2022 PGA Championship. In June 2015, Trump announced his candidacy in the 2016 presidential election with a controversial speech which lead to companies such as Macy's and NBC cutting ties with the businessman. While speaking on immigration, Trump claimed that Mexico is "sending people that have lots of problems... they're bringing drugs, they're bringing crime. They're rapists. And some, I assume, are good people," drawing criticism
U.S. President Donald Trump golfed several times and held a number of rallies after learning about the threat of the coronavirus. [SEP] Political positions of Donald Trump // crisis "would go against all the expert advice being offered," with doctors warning "that isolating West Africa would only make the Ebola outbreak much worse, potentially denying help and supplies from getting in," and possibly destabilizing the countries and contributing to the disease's spread outside West Africa. On August 3, 2016, Trump called the Zika virus outbreak in Florida "a big problem". He expressed his support for Florida Governor Rick Scott's handling of the crisis, saying that he's "doing a fantastic job". When asked if Congress should convene an emergency session to approve Zika funding, Trump answered, "I would say
U.S. President Donald Trump golfed several times and held a number of rallies after learning about the threat of the coronavirus. [SEP] Coronavirus // of a vaccine against the disease "since [the spike protein] appears to be recognized by the immune system of the host." Following the high-profile publicity of SARS outbreaks, there has been a renewed interest in coronaviruses among virologists. For many years, scientists knew about only two human coronaviruses (HCoV-229E and HCoV-OC43). The discovery of SARS-CoV added a third human coronavirus. By the end of 2004, three independent research labs reported the discovery of a fourth human coronavirus. It has been named NL63, NL, and the New Haven coronavirus by different research groups. The three labs are still arguing over which
U.S. President Donald Trump golfed several times and held a number of rallies after learning about the threat of the coronavirus. [SEP] Middle East respiratory syndrome // care worker who had been in Saudi Arabia a week earlier, and was reported to be in good condition. A second patient who also traveled from Saudi Arabia was reported in Orlando, Florida on 12 May 2014. On 14 May 2014, officials in the Netherlands reported the first case has appeared. On Saturday, 17 May 2014, a man from Illinois who was a business associate of the first U.S. case (he had met and shook hands with the Indiana health care worker) tested positive for the MERS coronavirus, but has not, as of yet, displayed symptoms (others are probably also,
U.S. President Donald Trump golfed several times and held a number of rallies after learning about the threat of the coronavirus. [SEP] Donald Trump and golf // seeking to block the president from receiving payments from foreign government entities at his businesses. The lawsuit alleged that these payments constitute a violation of the Foreign Emoluments Clause of the United States Constitution. In February 2017, the president invited Prime Minister of Japan Shinzō Abe to play at the Trump International Golf Club in Florida and stay at Trump's Mar-a-Lago resort. Legal and ethical concerns were raised by organizations such as the Sunlight Foundation over foreign payments the president may receive from the visit. Trump has vowed to donate any such payments to the Treasury Department, although the specifics
U.S. President Donald Trump golfed several times and held a number of rallies after learning about the threat of the coronavirus. [SEP] Donald Trump and golf // from immigration and Latino advocacy groups. The LPGA, PGA of America, PGA Tour and United States Golf Association issued a joint statement, saying that while the organizations "do not usually comment on Presidential politics, Mr. Trump's comments are inconsistent with our strong commitment to an inclusive and welcoming environment in the game of golf." The PGA of America also decided to relocate the 2015 PGA Grand Slam of Golf—an exhibition match which had been scheduled to take place at Trump National Golf Club, Los Angeles. Other upcoming events at Trump courses were not affected. As of December 2016, Donald Trump
U.S. President Donald Trump golfed several times and held a number of rallies after learning about the threat of the coronavirus. [SEP] Political positions of Donald Trump // is single payer. In 2014, after a New York physician returned from treating Ebola patients in West Africa and showed symptoms of the disease, Trump tweeted that if the doctor had Ebola, "Obama should apologize to the American people & resign!" When the doctor was later confirmed to have developed Ebola in New York, Trump tweeted that it was "Obama's fault" and "I have been saying for weeks for President Obama to stop the flights from West Africa. So simple, but he refused. A TOTAL incompetent!" Trump also criticized President Obama's decision to send 3,000 U.S. troops to affected regions
U.S. President Donald Trump golfed several times and held a number of rallies after learning about the threat of the coronavirus. [SEP] Donald Trump 2020 presidential campaign // especially in North Carolina, which Trump won by less than 4 percentage points in the 2016 election. Finally, it was mentioned that a large part of the campaign's efforts thus far have involved an expansion of its data program being overseen by Brad Parscale. On his August 29 visit to Texas following Hurricane Harvey, the president made the unusual move of delivering an impromptu campaign-style speech. On September 16, groups supporting Trump organized a rally on the National Mall named the "Mother of All Rallies". Organizers were originally hoping to draw one million attendees. However, in planning for security, the
U.S. President Donald Trump golfed several times and held a number of rallies after learning about the threat of the coronavirus. [SEP] Business career of Donald Trump // April 2014, Trump purchased the Turnberry hotel and golf resort in Ayrshire, Scotland, which is a regular fixture in the Open Championship rota. In June 2015, Trump's appeal objecting to an offshore windfarm (Aberdeen Bay Wind Farm) within sight of the golf links was denied. In December 2015, Trump's attempt to prevent the windfarm being built within sight of his golf course was dismissed by five justices at the UK Supreme Court in the case of "Trump International Golf Club Scotland Ltd v The Scottish Ministers". In 1983, Trump's New Jersey Generals became a charter member of the new United
Same-day hip replacements get patients back on their feet [SEP] Hip fracture // with minimal pain during transfers. Surgery on the same day or day following the break is estimated to reduce postoperative mortality in people who are medically stable. For low-grade fractures (Garden types 1 and 2), standard treatment is fixation of the fracture in situ with screws or a sliding screw/plate device. This treatment can also be offered for displaced fractures after the fracture has been reduced. Fractures managed by closed reduction can possibly be treated by percutaneously inserted screws. In elderly patients with displaced or intracapsular fractures many surgeons prefer to undertake a hemiarthroplasty, replacing the broken part of the
Same-day hip replacements get patients back on their feet [SEP] Hip replacement // periprosthetic fractures at the end of the implant, an area of relative mechanical stress. Post-operative femoral fractures are graded by the Vancouver classification. Venous thrombosis such as deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism are relatively common following hip replacement surgery. Standard treatment with anticoagulants is for 7–10 days; however treatment for more than 21 days may be superior. Research from 2013 has on the other hand suggested that anticoagulants in otherwise healthy patients undergoing a so-called fast track protocol with hospital stays under five days, might only be necessary while in the hospital. Some physicians and patients may consider having
Same-day hip replacements get patients back on their feet [SEP] Hip replacement // longer than it was. This feeling usually subsides by 6 months after surgery as the body adjusts to the new hip joint. The cause of this feeling is variable, and usually related to abductor muscle weakness, pelvic obliquity, and minor lengthening of the hip during surgery (<1 cm) to achieve stability and restore the joint to pre-arthritic mechanics. If the limb length difference remains bothersome to the patient more than 6 months after surgery, a shoe lift can be used. Only in extreme cases is surgery required for correction. Bones with internal fixation devices in situ are at risk of
Same-day hip replacements get patients back on their feet [SEP] Joint replacement // the key to reducing the chances of complications such as venous thromboembolism and Pneumonia. Modern practice is to mobilize patients as soon as possible and ambulate with walking aids when tolerated. Depending on the joint involved and the pre-op status of the patient, the time of hospitalization varies from 1 day to 2 weeks, with the average being 4–7 days in most regions. Physiotherapy is used extensively to help patients recover function after joint replacement surgery. A graded exercise programme is needed initially, as the patients' muscles take time to heal after the surgery; exercises for range of motion of
Same-day hip replacements get patients back on their feet [SEP] Hip resurfacing // use this method is (Dr James Pritchett; Swedish Orthopedics Seattle Wa. He has done over 5200 hip resurfacings) In 2006, the United States FDA approved hip resurfacing using the Birmingham Hip Resurfacing (BHR) system, designed by British Orthopaedic surgeon Derek McMinn. All other FDA approved devices have been removed from the US Market. The BHR is no longer suggested for use in women. However, it would be the best choice for young men with osteoarthritis, according to the Australian National Joint Replacement Registry, reports that for men under 55 years of age with osteoarthritis, the Birmingham Hip Resurfacing is the
Same-day hip replacements get patients back on their feet [SEP] Neurologic & Orthopedic Hospital of Chicago // and use of the Gamma Knife to destroy tumors. They were developing new knee and hip replacement options that allow patients to resume an active lifestyle. Offered at NOHC, BIRMINGHAM Hip resurfacing was a relatively new procedure approved by the FDA in 2006. It is a minimally invasive alternative to total hip replacement that preserves the top of the femur with a metal ball. Dr. Mitchell Sheinkop, director of the joint replacement program, has performed this procedure on former MLB player Albert Belle and former NFL quarterback Jim Miller. He was also the first orthopedic surgeon in Chicago to be
Same-day hip replacements get patients back on their feet [SEP] Hip replacement (animal) // treatment afforded older dogs and not usually considered for young and middle aged animals or less advanced conditions. Aftercare recommendations vary also. Some vets recommend as little as 1–2 days in hospital after replacement, others as much as 4–7 days. All vets agree that movement must be restricted for a significant time after surgery. Some suggest that normal activity can be resumed after 5 weeks, others state it is unsafe until after 8 weeks. In both cases, a cautious approach will probably do no harm, if there is doubt. The first feline hip replacement in the New York area was
Same-day hip replacements get patients back on their feet [SEP] Joint replacement // use of mobility aids (e.g. walking frames, canes, crutches) to enable the patient's return to preoperative mobility. Ankle replacement is becoming the treatment of choice for patients requiring arthroplasty, replacing the conventional use of arthrodesis, i.e. fusion of the bones. The restoration of range of motion is the key feature in favor of ankle replacement with respect to arthrodesis. However, clinical evidence of the superiority of the former has only been demonstrated for particular isolated implant designs. Finger joint replacement is a relatively quick procedure of about 30 minutes, but requires several months of subsequent therapy. Before major surgery is
Same-day hip replacements get patients back on their feet [SEP] Joint replacement // replacement or a hemi (half) replacement. A total hip replacement consists of replacing both the acetabulum and the femoral head while hemiarthroplasty generally only replaces the femoral head. Hip replacement is currently the most common orthopaedic operation, though patient satisfaction short- and long-term varies widely. Knee replacement involves exposure of the front of the knee, with detachment of part of the quadriceps muscle (vastus medialis) from the patella. The patella is displaced to one side of the joint, allowing exposure of the distal end of the femur and the proximal end of the tibia. The ends of these bones are
Same-day hip replacements get patients back on their feet [SEP] Hip replacement // from May 2010. Data which are shown in The Australian Orthopaedic Association's 2008 National Joint replacement registry, a record of nearly every hip implanted in that country over the previous 10 years, tracked 6,773 BHR (Birmingham Hip Resurfacing) Hips and found that less than one-third of one percent may have been revised due to the patient's reaction to the metal component. Other similar metal-on-metal designs have not fared as well, where some reports show 76% to 100% of the people with these metal-on-metal implants and have aseptic implant failures requiring revision also have evidence of histological inflammation accompanied by extensive
New transplant research aims to salvage infected donated organs. [SEP] Korkut Uygun // Engineering Group. In 2008, he was promoted to instructor in surgery (Bioengineering) at Harvard Medical School. In 2011 He was promoted to Assistant Professor in Surgery at Harvard Medical School. A major research objective of Uygun is to enhance utilization of discarded donor organs in order to either increase the supply of transplantable organs, utilize untransplantable organs as cell sources for cell transplantation or bioartificial organ substitutes, such as bioartificial livers, and if the organ proves completely unresuscitatable, utilize them as biocompatible scaffodls for tissue engineering. In 2010, a team led by Uygun in the Center for Engineering in Medicine
New transplant research aims to salvage infected donated organs. [SEP] Dorry Segev // transplantation. Any organ whose donor was diagnosed with HIV would be immediately thrown out, despite them being otherwise healthy organs. In May 2010, Brian Boyarsky sought out Segev's advice after doing previous research comparing transplant programs in different countries. During his research, Boyarsky met Elmi Muller, who had been successfully transplanting organs between HIV+ donors and recipients in South Africa. With that in mind, Segev and Boyarsky looked at both the Nationwide Inpatient Sample to study in-hospital deaths of HIV+ patients and the HIV Research Network, which provided granular disease-specific data, to calculate the impact of using organs from HIV+
New transplant research aims to salvage infected donated organs. [SEP] Organ transplantation // organ in which the remaining organ can regenerate or take on the workload of the rest of the organ (primarily single kidney donation, partial donation of liver, lung lobe, small bowel). Regenerative medicine may one day allow for laboratory-grown organs, using person's own cells via stem cells, or healthy cells extracted from the failing organs. Deceased donors (formerly cadaveric) are people who have been declared brain-dead and whose organs are kept viable by ventilators or other mechanical mechanisms until they can be excised for transplantation. Apart from brain-stem dead donors, who have formed the majority of deceased donors for the
New transplant research aims to salvage infected donated organs. [SEP] Organ procurement // of kidneys is a relatively widespread practice. For the heart normothermic preservation has been used in which the heart is provided with warm oxygenated blood and so continues to beat ex-vivo during its preservation. This technique has also been applied to lungs and led to the emergence of donor lung reconditioning centres in North America. For the liver, hypothermic and normothermic techniques are being used with evidence to suggest that both may be beneficial . The HOPE (HIV Organ Policy Equity) Act allows for clinical research on organ transplantation from HIV+ donors to HIV+ recipients. The Act was passed by
New transplant research aims to salvage infected donated organs. [SEP] Organ transplantation // the heart, kidneys, brain, liver, lungs, pancreas, intestine, and thymus. Tissues include bones, tendons (both referred to as musculoskeletal grafts), corneae, skin, heart valves, nerves and veins. Worldwide, the kidneys are the most commonly transplanted organs, followed by the liver and then the heart. Corneae and musculoskeletal grafts are the most commonly transplanted tissues; these outnumber organ transplants by more than tenfold. Organ donors may be living, brain dead, or dead via circulatory death. Tissue may be recovered from donors who die of circulatory death, as well as of brain death – up to 24 hours past the cessation of
New transplant research aims to salvage infected donated organs. [SEP] Organ transplantation // are still unknown, and in general, reduced immunosuppression increases the risk of rejection and decreases the risk of infection. The risk of early rejection is increased if corticosteroid immunosuppression are avoided or withdrawn after renal transplantation. Many other new drugs are under development for transplantation. The emerging field of regenerative medicine promises to solve the problem of organ transplant rejection by regrowing organs in the lab, using person's own cells (stem cells or healthy cells extracted from the donor site). From year 2000 and forward, there has been approximately 2,200 lung transplants performed each year worldwide. From between 2000 and
New transplant research aims to salvage infected donated organs. [SEP] Transplant rejection // donor's, and the recipient accepts the new organ without rejection. The marrow's hematopoietic stem cells—the reservoir of stem cells replenishing exhausted blood cells including white blood cells forming the immune system—must be of the individual who donated the organ or of an identical twin or a clone. There is a risk of graft-versus-host disease (GVHD), however, whereby mature lymphocytes entering with marrow recognize the new host tissues as foreign and destroy them. Gene therapy is another method that can be used. In this method, the genes that cause the body to reject transplants would be deactivated. Research is still being
New transplant research aims to salvage infected donated organs. [SEP] Xenotransplantation // studying human biology without harming human patients. This technique has also been proposed as an alternative source of human organs for future transplantation into human patients. For example, researchers from the Ganogen Research Institute transplanted human fetal kidneys into rats which demonstrated life supporting function and growth. A worldwide shortage of organs for clinical implantation causes about 20–35% of patients who need replacement organs to die on the waiting list. Certain procedures, some of which are being investigated in early clinical trials, aim to use cells or tissues from other species to treat life-threatening and debilitating illnesses such as cancer,
New transplant research aims to salvage infected donated organs. [SEP] Organ transplantation // more. With organ transplants becoming commonplace, limited only by donors, surgeons moved on to riskier fields, including multiple-organ transplants on humans and whole-body transplant research on animals. On 9 March 1981, the first successful heart-lung transplant took place at Stanford University Hospital. The head surgeon, Bruce Reitz, credited the patient's recovery to cyclosporine-A. As the rising success rate of transplants and modern immunosuppression make transplants more common, the need for more organs has become critical. Transplants from living donors, especially relatives, have become increasingly common. Additionally, there is substantive research into xenotransplantation, or transgenic organs; although these forms of transplant
New transplant research aims to salvage infected donated organs. [SEP] Organ transplantation // to the top of the list for a deceased-donor organ. Johns Hopkins Medical Center in Baltimore and Northwestern University's Northwestern Memorial Hospital have received significant attention for pioneering transplants of this kind. In February 2012, the last link in a record 60-person domino chain of 30 kidney transplants was completed. Because very young children (generally under 12 months, but often as old as 24 months,) do not have a well-developed immune system, it is possible for them to receive organs from otherwise incompatible donors. This is known as ABO-incompatible (ABOi) transplantation. Graft survival and people's mortality is approximately the same
I'm all ears: fossils reveal human ancestors' hearing abilities. [SEP] Evolution of the cochlea // and other sedimentary remains. With the use of X-ray technologies, it is possible to ascertain some information about the auditory capabilities of extinct creatures, giving insight to human ancestors as well as their contemporary species. While the basic structure of the inner ear in lepidosaurs (lizards and snakes), archosaurs (birds and crocodilians) and mammals is similar, and the organs are considered to be homologous, each group has a unique type of auditory organ. The hearing organ arose within the lagenar duct of stem reptiles, lying between the saccular and lagenar epithelia. In lepidosaurs, the hearing organ, the basilar papilla, is
I'm all ears: fossils reveal human ancestors' hearing abilities. [SEP] Evolution of the cochlea // apex of the cochlea faces more inferiorly in the hominins than the latter two groups. Finally, the cochlea of European middle Pleistocene hominins faces more inferiorly than Neanderthals, modern humans, and Homo erectus. Human beings, along with Apes, are the only mammals that do not have high frequency (>32 kHz) hearing. Humans have long cochleae, but the space devoted to each frequency range is quite large (2.5mm per octave), resulting in a comparatively reduced upper frequency limit. The human cochlea has approximately 2.5 turns around the modiolus (the axis). Humans, like many mammals and birds, are able to perceive auditory
I'm all ears: fossils reveal human ancestors' hearing abilities. [SEP] Evolution of the cochlea // signals that displace the eardrum by a mere picometre. Because of its prominence and preserved state in the fossil record, until recently, the ear had been used to determine phylogeny. The ear itself contains different portions, including the outer ear, the middle ear, and the inner ear and all of these show evolutionary changes that are often unique to each lineage [14]. It was the independent evolution of a tympanic middle ear in the Triassic era that produced strong selection pressures towards improved hearing organs in the separate lineages of land vertebrates. The cochlea is the tri-chambered auditory detection portion
I'm all ears: fossils reveal human ancestors' hearing abilities. [SEP] Homo heidelbergensis // (Spain) of 28 human skeletons suggest that "H. heidelbergensis" might have been the first species of the genus "Homo" to bury its dead. The morphology of the outer and middle ear suggests they had an auditory sensitivity similar to modern humans. They were probably able to differentiate between many different sounds. Dental wear analysis suggests they were as likely to be right-handed as modern people. Steven Mithen believes that "H. heidelbergensis", like its descendant "H. neanderthalensis", acquired a pre-linguistic system of communication. No forms of art have been uncovered, although red ochre, a mineral that can be used to mix
I'm all ears: fossils reveal human ancestors' hearing abilities. [SEP] Zeresenay Alemseged // the fossil record and is the only example from a species of her antiquity. This bone is presumed to have played an important role in the development of human speech and its recovery gives us some clues towards understanding the nature and evolution of the human voicebox. This extraordinary ancient skeleton preserves a mosaic of features shared by both humans and the apes and clearly shows that both the anatomy and behavior of our ancestors was changing, slowly but progressively. In other words, evolution was in the making. The DRP Zeresenay's research interests lie in the discovery and analysis of
I'm all ears: fossils reveal human ancestors' hearing abilities. [SEP] Evolution of the cochlea // also traces back to the Cretaceous period. The evolution of the human cochlea is a major area of scientific interest because of its favourable representation in the fossil record. During the last century, many scientists such as evolutionary biologists and paleontologists strove to develop new methods and techniques to overcome the many obstacles associated with working with ancient, delicate artifacts. In the past, scientists were limited in their ability to fully examine specimens without causing damage to them. In more recent times, technologies such as micro-CT scanning became available. These technologies allow for the visual differentiation between fossilized animal materials
I'm all ears: fossils reveal human ancestors' hearing abilities. [SEP] Evolution of mammalian auditory ossicles // required when classifying fossils, since mammary glands and other soft-tissue features are not visible in fossils. Paleontologists therefore use a distinguishing feature that is shared by all living mammals (including monotremes), but is not present in any of the early Triassic therapsids ("mammal-like reptiles"): mammals use two bones for hearing that all other amniotes use for eating. The earliest amniotes had a jaw joint composed of the articular (a small bone at the back of the lower jaw) and the quadrate (a small bone at the back of the upper jaw). All non-mammalian amniotes use this system including lizards, crocodilians,
I'm all ears: fossils reveal human ancestors' hearing abilities. [SEP] Jacob Theodor Klein // these bones. The bone to which Klein was referring, now called the otolith, acquires a growth ring every day for at least the first six months of its life. Klein inquiries into the nature of the passages by which vibrations produce a sense of hearing. He inspects the head of a Pike fish and observes several holes with bristles which lead to the auditory bones. He later dissected a Sturgeon fish and traced the auditory duct to the membrane in which the three bones are placed. Klein concludes that fishes do indeed have hearing organs and passages, communicated to through
I'm all ears: fossils reveal human ancestors' hearing abilities. [SEP] Evolution of mammalian auditory ossicles // states is one of the most well-documented<ref name="urlCuffey 2 - Acknowledgements / References"></ref> and supported in all of evolution, and newly discovered fossils from this transitional period have recently improved our understanding of this transition. But they also suggest that it was not a simple linear process from the early therapsid jaw (quadrate-articular joint) and middle ear (with stapes as the only ossicles) to the modern mammalian anatomy. Natural selection could be a factor in the preservation of the structure of the middle ear in mammals. Many of the earliest mammals were quite small, and the dentition indicates that they
I'm all ears: fossils reveal human ancestors' hearing abilities. [SEP] Prehistoric music // paleolithic objects which are considered unambiguously musical are bone flutes or pipes; paleolithic finds which are open to interpretation are pierced phalanges (usually interpreted as "phalangeal whistles"), objects interpreted as bullroarers, and rasps. Music can be theoretically traced to prior to the Paleolithic age, the anthropological and archaeological designation suggests that music first arose (among humans) when stone tools first began to be used by hominids. The noises produced by work such as pounding seed and roots into meal is a likely source of rhythm created by early humans. The oldest flute ever discovered may be the so-called Nicholas flute,
Problems spur FDA caution on insulin pump [SEP] Insulin detemir // Drug Administration (FDA) issued a public health advisory for Levemir insulin after learning that 129,000 stolen vials reappeared and were being sold in the U.S. market. The FDA warned that the stolen vials "may not have been stored and handled properly and may be dangerous for patients to use." The stolen vials were identified as lots XZF0036, XZF0037, and XZF0038. 1. http://content.nejm.org/cgi/content/full/NEJMoa075392, Addition of Biphasic, Prandial, or Basal Insulin to Oral Therapy in Type 2 Diabetes; (2006) Rury R. Holman, M.B., Ch.B., F.R.C.P., Kerensa I. Thorne, M.Sc., Andrew J. Farmer, D.M., F.R.C.G.P., Melanie J. Davies, M.D., F.R.C.P., Joanne F. Keenan,
Problems spur FDA caution on insulin pump [SEP] Insulin pump // Radcliffe, demonstrated a security flaw in insulin pumps. Radcliffe was able to hack the wireless interface used to control the pump remotely. Pump manufacturer Medtronic later said security research by McAfee uncovered a flaw in its pumps that could be exploited. Insulin pump An insulin pump is a medical device used for the administration of insulin in the treatment of diabetes mellitus, also known as continuous subcutaneous insulin therapy. The device configuration may vary depending on design. A traditional pump includes: Other configurations are possible. More recent models may include disposable or semi-disposable designs for the pumping mechanism and may
Problems spur FDA caution on insulin pump [SEP] Minimed Paradigm // in insulin delivery occurs without manual user-intervention. In the United States, the device is regulated by a branch of the Food and Drug Administration. Insulin pumps are drug delivery devices used to treat patients with type 1 and type 2 diabetes. The Minimed Paradigm REAL-Time and Continuous Glucose Monitoring (CGM) system, which received FDA clearance in 2006, uses tubing and a reservoir with rapid-acting insulin. This "infusion set" is patient-connected via a catheter to the abdomen region. The infusion set can remain in the place for 3 days while the pump is clip-belt worn. There is a quick-disconnect feature for
Problems spur FDA caution on insulin pump [SEP] Tandem Diabetes Care // with the Dexcom G4 Platinum CGM System. This device was approved by the FDA in September 2015. The FDA approved a tool to update the software on Tandem's pumps in July, 2016. The Tandem Product Updater is designed to deliver software updates to Tandem's pumps to provide new features and interface improvements. In announcing the approval, Tandem stated that the first use of the new tool will be to update t:slim pumps which were shipped prior to April, 2015 with a new version of the firmware which speeds the loading process and offers other enhancements. In late October 2016, Tandem
Problems spur FDA caution on insulin pump [SEP] Insulin pump // counting. Insulin pumps are used to deliver insulin on a continuous basis to a person with type I diabetes. Insulin pumps, cartridges, and infusion sets may be far more expensive than syringes used for insulin injection with several insulin pumps costing more than $6,000; necessary supplies can cost over $300. Another disadvantage of insulin pump use is a higher risk of developing diabetic ketoacidosis if the pump malfunctions. This can happen if the pump battery is discharged, if the insulin is inactivated by heat exposure, if the insulin reservoir runs empty, the tubing becomes loose and insulin leaks rather than
Problems spur FDA caution on insulin pump [SEP] Animas Corporation // up to 500 rules set by the user on how to act on different occasions (such as when eating a certain food type). In April 2013, the Food and Drug Administration issued a Class I Recall for the Animas 2020. The recall specifies an issue with the pump initiating a false alarm or warning sound, which may prompt pump users to inadvertently administer more insulin and can result in a serious health risk. The Animas Ping is an insulin pump which communicates wirelessly with a meter/display device. Animas Corporation teamed up with Dexcom Inc. and developed the first insulin pump
Problems spur FDA caution on insulin pump [SEP] Novo Nordisk // – had an increased risk of side effects in the pancreas such as pancreatitis and pancreatic cancer. It was concluded that data currently available did not confirm these concerns. In October 2013, batches of NovoMix 30 FlexPen and Penfill insulin were recalled in some European countries as their analysis had shown that a small percentage of the products in these batches did not meet the specifications for insulin strength. In September 2017, Novo Nordisk agreed to pay $58.7 million to end a United States Department of Justice probe into the lack of FDA disclosure to doctors about the cancer risk
Problems spur FDA caution on insulin pump [SEP] Liraglutide // inhibitors (such as sitagliptin). In response, the United States FDA and the European Medicines Agency conducted a review of all available data regarding the possible connection between incretin mimetics and pancreatitis or pancreatic cancer. In a joint 2014 letter to the New England Journal of Medicine, the agencies concluded that "A pooled analysis of data from 14,611 patients with type 2 diabetes from 25 clinical trials in the sitagliptin database provided no compelling evidence of an increased risk of pancreatitis or pancreatic cancer" and "Both agencies agree that assertions concerning a causal association between incretin-based drugs and pancreatitis or pancreatic
Problems spur FDA caution on insulin pump [SEP] Diabetes management // undergoing for an oral product. Also oral combination products of insulin and a GLP-1 agonist are being developed. Insulin therapy creates risk because of the inability to continuously know a person's blood glucose level and adjust insulin infusion appropriately. New advances in technology have overcome much of this problem. Small, portable insulin infusion pumps are available from several manufacturers. They allow a continuous infusion of small amounts of insulin to be delivered through the skin around the clock, plus the ability to give bolus doses when a person eats or has elevated blood glucose levels. This is very similar to
Problems spur FDA caution on insulin pump [SEP] Diabetes management // how the pancreas works, but these pumps lack a continuous "feed-back" mechanism. Thus, the user is still at risk of giving too much or too little insulin unless blood glucose measurements are made. A further danger of insulin treatment is that while diabetic microangiopathy is usually explained as the result of hyperglycemia, studies in rats indicate that the higher than normal level of insulin diabetics inject to control their hyperglycemia may itself promote small blood vessel disease. While there is no clear evidence that controlling hyperglycemia reduces diabetic macrovascular and cardiovascular disease, there are indications that intensive efforts to normalize
NASA twins study explores space, the final genetic frontier. [SEP] A Beautiful Planet // twin, Mark Kelly, who is also a retired NASA astronaut. The brothers have agreed to be the subjects of an unprecedented twin study; Mark stayed on Earth during Scott's eleven months aboard the ISS so that researchers could examine how an extended spaceflight affected Scott's body compared to Mark's. While Scott was in space and then continuing after he returned, both twins gave periodic blood samples and DNA swabs, and they underwent body scans and many other medical tests. In the epilogue to his 2017 book about the year long mission, Scott wrote that the very preliminary assessments of the
NASA twins study explores space, the final genetic frontier. [SEP] International Space Station United States National Laboratory // that old age does, this researcher is interested in determining the earliest point at which T-cells become different in space. Using a machine to analyze genes, one researcher is testing whether astronauts experience genetic changes in their DNA that would cause them to have weakened immune systems when in space. The findings in this experiment are important because it will determine if astronauts would be able to conduct experiments in space for extended periods of time. For example, scientists are using microgravity’s unique ability to accelerate bone deterioration to study rodent bone loss in space. The experiment involves studying how
NASA twins study explores space, the final genetic frontier. [SEP] Jessica Meir // which are able to tolerate extreme altitudes and low oxygen levels while flying over the Himalayas. Meir worked for three years at NASA's Johnson Space Center (JSC) in Houston, Texas. She worked for Lockheed Martin Space Operations as an experiment support scientist for the Human Research Facility at the NASA Johnson Space Center (JSC). Meir coordinated and supported human space life science experiments that were performed by astronauts on space shuttle and International Space Station (ISS) missions. These experiments included physiological studies (bone loss, muscle control/atrophy, lung function, etc.) to determine if any bodily processes were altered in the spaceflight
NASA twins study explores space, the final genetic frontier. [SEP] GeneLab // systems adapt to spaceflight, leading to advances for life on Earth and beyond. GeneLab GeneLab is an open-access, collaborative analysis platform for space bioscience research. GeneLab aims to maximize the research resulting from experiments aboard the International Space Station (ISS) by collecting and providing access to data from genomic, transcriptomic, proteomic, and metabolomics studies aboard ISS. The Space Biosciences Division at NASA's Ames Research Center runs GeneLab. The GeneLab project is both a science collaboration initiative to maximize the omics data collected from spaceflight and from ground simulations of microgravity and radiation experiments; and a data system effort to establish
NASA twins study explores space, the final genetic frontier. [SEP] Sarah Wyatt // her teaching career at Ohio University in the Department of Environmental and Plant Biology. In early 2013, Wyatt submitted a research proposal to NASA's Research Opportunities in Space Biology (ROSBio), and in May of the same year her proposal along with eight others, was accepted for experimentation aboard the ISS. The objective of her space flight mission, entitled The Biological Research in Canisters-20 (BRIC-20), was to germinate "Arabidopsis thaliana" seedlings in space and study their transcriptomic and proteomic responses to microgravity. In January 2015, the SpaceX Falcon 9 was sent into orbit, placing a Dragon cargo capsule with the BRIC-20
NASA twins study explores space, the final genetic frontier. [SEP] Kounotori 3 // from fish parents to grandkids, previously impossible in space shuttle experiments, has become a reality," NASA said in a press kit. The AQH experimental device will allow scientists and researchers to observe the birth of space aquatic creatures that have never experienced Earth's gravity, enabling them to better understand how the space environment affects animals beyond generations in preparation for potential long-term space travel in future. Medaka ("Oryzias latipes") will be bred and observed in the AQH experimental device. Two experiments, originally designed by the winners of the international YouTube Space Lab competition, would examine how "Bacillus subtilis" and the
NASA twins study explores space, the final genetic frontier. [SEP] TWINS // the geocorona. The TWINS prime mission lasted two years, from 2008 to 2010, and has been followed by an extended mission which is ongoing. Launched as missions of opportunity aboard classified, non-NASA U.S. government spacecraft, TWINS conducts stereoscopic imaging of Earth's magnetosphere. By imaging the charge exchange neutral atoms over a broad energy range (~1-100 keV) using two identical instruments on two widely spaced high-altitude, high-inclination spacecraft, TWINS enables the 3-dimensional visualization and the resolution of large scale structures and dynamics within the magnetosphere for the first time. In contrast to traditional space experiments, which make measurements at only one
NASA twins study explores space, the final genetic frontier. [SEP] Voyage from Yesteryear // quickly modify the design to carry several hundred sets of electronically coded human genetic data. Also included in this mission of embryo space colonization is a databank of human knowledge, robots to convert the data into genetic material and care for the children and construct habitats when the destination is reached, and a number of artificial wombs. The probe's designers name it the "Kuan-Yin" after the bodhisattva of childbirth and compassion. Shortly after the launch, global war indeed breaks out and several decades later, Earthbound humanity is united under an authoritarian government. It is this government that receives a radio
NASA twins study explores space, the final genetic frontier. [SEP] STS-41 // its way, the STS-41 crew began an ambitious schedule of science experiments. Flowering plant samples were grown in the CHROMEX-2 module in a Kennedy Space Center and State University of New York at Stony Brook experiment. An earlier version of the experiment flown on STS-29 revealed chromosome damage in root tip cells but no damage to control plants on Earth. By studying plant samples carried on "Discovery", researchers hoped to determine how the genetic material in the root cells respond to microgravity. The information gained was of importance to future space travelers on long-term expeditions, researchers on the planned Space
NASA twins study explores space, the final genetic frontier. [SEP] National Space Biomedical Research Institute // for exemplary teaching, training and public outreach in support of the Vision for Space Exploration." During the opening ceremonies, NSBRI President and CEO Dr. Jeffrey P. Sutton and NSBRI Chairman of the Board of Directors Dr. Bobby R. Alford presented U.S. Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison with the Pioneer Award, the Institute's highest honor, for her support of human spaceflight. National Space Biomedical Research Institute The National Space Biomedical Research Institute (NSBRI) is a NASA-funded consortium of institutions studying the health risks related to long-duration spaceflight and developing solutions to reduce those risks. The NSBRI was founded in 1997. NSBRI's 16,400-square-foot
Ohio committee rejects medical marijuana for anxiety, autism. [SEP] Cannabis in Ohio // back to Ohio for use in accordance with Ohio law. The twenty-one qualifying conditions are: AIDS/HIV, Alzheimer's disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), cancer, chronic traumatic encephalopathy (CTE), Crohn's disease, epilepsy (or other seizure disorder), fibromyalgia, glaucoma, hepatitis C, inflammatory bowel disease, multiple sclerosis, "pain that is either chronic and severe or intractable," Parkinson's disease, post-traumatic stress disorder, sickle cell anemia, spinal cord disease or injury, Tourette's syndrome, traumatic brain injury, ulcerative colitis, and "any other disease or condition added by the state medical board." Smoking and the home cultivation of marijuana remain prohibited under the law, which only permits marijuana
Ohio committee rejects medical marijuana for anxiety, autism. [SEP] Cannabis in Ohio // the endorsement of the major cannabis advocacy groups Drug Policy Alliance and the Marijuana Policy Project, and received only a "tepid endorsement" from NORML. The ballot initiative was defeated 65–35. In June 2016, Governor John Kasich signed House Bill 523, which permits the medical use of marijuana in some cases. The bill, sponsored by state Representative Stephen Huffman, was approved by an 18-15 vote in the state Senate and by a 67-29 vote in the state House. The bill sets up a rulemaking process under which a "state-run or licensed system of growing facilities, testing labs, physician certification, patient registration,
Ohio committee rejects medical marijuana for anxiety, autism. [SEP] Cannabis in New Jersey // 2017, the state Medicinal Marijuana Review Panel, in a 5–1 vote, recommended that a number of conditions be added to the list of medical marijuana-qualifying conditions in New Jersey, including migraines, Tourette syndrome, autism-related anxiety, and Alzheimer's disease-related anxiety, as well as chronic pain if "related to a broad range of ailments, including opioid use disorder, arthritis, back and neck pain, sciatica, diabetes, surgeries, injuries, neuropathy, Lyme disease, lupus, fibromyalgia, irritable bowel syndrome, pancreatitis, and others." However, the Review Panel rejected proposals to add asthma and chronic fatigue to the list. The final determination on additions to the list is
Ohio committee rejects medical marijuana for anxiety, autism. [SEP] Cannabis in Utah // sclerosis, an autoimmune disorder, cachexia or physical wasting, nausea, or malnutrition associated with chronic disease, cancer, Crohn's disease, epilepsy, or a condition that causes debilitating seizures, glaucoma, multiple sclerosis or a similar condition that causes persistent and debilitating muscle spasms, post-traumatic stress disorder, or severe, chronic pain would be able to use medical marijuana legally. The bill would fail in the Senate on a 15–14 vote, with several senators citing the relative rush behind the bill as the reason for their no vote. Madsen stated that he would try again in the 2016 session. In 2016, Senator Madsen once again
Ohio committee rejects medical marijuana for anxiety, autism. [SEP] Charlotte's web (cannabis) // law permits the use of medical cannabis for eight conditions: cancer, glaucoma, HIV/AIDS, muscle spasms, seizures, severe pain, severe nausea and dramatic weight loss, and muscle atrophy. The publicity surrounding anecdotal reports of successful treatment of intractable epilepsy with cannabinoids is likely to lead to a surge in interest. In 2013, the parents of a two-year-old with Dravet syndrome confronted New Jersey governor Chris Christie, who signed a bill allowing access for sick children to medical marijuana in a controversy dubbed "pot for tots". In 2014, legislative proposals in Utah, Arizona, New York, Washington state, Minnesota, and Florida were considered,
Ohio committee rejects medical marijuana for anxiety, autism. [SEP] Marijuana Policy Project // isn’t as strong as the constitutional amendment MPP promoted, it shares many of the same critical principles, most especially by ensuring seriously ill patients will no longer be treated like criminals and will have reasonable access to medicine. In conjunction with Ohioans for Medical Marijuana, MPP plans to continue advocacy efforts to ensure that the State of Ohio lives up to the promises contained in HB 523, while also working to better the program using the ballot initiative proposal as a roadmap for these improvements. Pennsylvania On April 17, 2016. Gov. Tom Wolf signed legislation making Pennsylvania the 24th medical
Ohio committee rejects medical marijuana for anxiety, autism. [SEP] Cannabis in Florida // epilepsy, glaucoma, positive status for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS), post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), Crohn's disease, Parkinson's disease, multiple sclerosis, chronic nonmalignant pain caused by a qualifying medical condition or that originates from a qualified medical condition or other debilitating medical conditions comparable to those listed. Under Amendment 2, medical marijuana will be given to the patient if the physician believes that the medical use of marijuana would likely outweigh the potential health risks for a patient. Under the Florida regulations smoking the medication is not allowed; instead the product can be
Ohio committee rejects medical marijuana for anxiety, autism. [SEP] Arguments for and against drug prohibition // drugs like marijuana. A marijuana withdrawal syndrome occurs, consisting of anxiety, depression, sleep and appetite disturbances, irritability, tremors, diaphoresis, nausea, muscle convulsions, and restlessness. Often, persons using marijuana erroneously believe that the drug is helping them combat these symptoms without realizing that actually marijuana is the cause of these effects. Therefore, when a patient anecdotally reports a drug to have medicinal value, this must be followed by objective scientific studies." The US Drug Enforcement Administration also says: Most of the psychoactive drugs now prohibited in modern societies have had medical uses in history. In natural plant drugs like opium, coca,
Ohio committee rejects medical marijuana for anxiety, autism. [SEP] Medical cannabis // Public Health Association, American Medical Student Association, National Multiple Sclerosis Society, Epilepsy Foundation, and Leukemia & Lymphoma Society. Organizations that have issued statements in opposition to the legalization of medical cannabis include the American Academy of Pediatrics, American Psychiatric Association, and American Society of Addiction Medicine. However, the AAP also supports rescheduling for the purpose of facilitating research. The American Medical Association and American College of Physicians do not take a position on the legalization of medical cannabis, but have called for the Schedule I classification of cannabis to be reviewed. The American Academy of Family Physicians similarly does not
Ohio committee rejects medical marijuana for anxiety, autism. [SEP] Bob Hagan // of 2006." The bill was meant as a response to HB 515, which was a ban on adoption by homosexual or bisexual people or couples, and in presenting the fake legislation Hagan cited so-called "credible research" indicating that children in Republican households had a host of emotional problems. He was later mocked by his constituents during a public forum for failing to sponsor legitimate bills for their benefit. He later apologized. In April 2010, Bob Hagan co-sponsored a measure to legalize marijuana in Ohio. The bill, "would let doctor-certified medical marijuana users grow plants, but they would have to be
“Boil some orange peels wit cayenne pepper in it stand over the pot breathe in the steam so all that mucus can release from yo nasal… MUCUS is the problem its where THE VIRUS LIVES!!!” [SEP] Saline (medicine) // and loosening influence on the mucus to make it easier to wash out and clear the nasal passages for both babies and adults. In this case "home-made" saline may be used: this is made by dissolving approximately half a teaspoon of table salt into 240ml (approx. 8 ounces) of clean tap water. In very rare instances, amoeba "Naegleria fowleri" infection can occur if amoeba enters the body through the nose, therefore water used for nasal irrigation should be sterile. Note that clean tap water is not necessarily a sterile liquid. Eye drops are saline-containing drops used on the eye. Depending
“Boil some orange peels wit cayenne pepper in it stand over the pot breathe in the steam so all that mucus can release from yo nasal… MUCUS is the problem its where THE VIRUS LIVES!!!” [SEP] Nasal irrigation // cases of fatal naegleriasis have occurred due to nasal insufflation of the amoeba "Naegleria fowleri" from untreated tap water. Flushing the nasal cavity can soothe inflamed tissue and remove irritants like allergens; it may help clear mucus. The water should not be tap water, which may contain small amounts of bacteria that are safe to drink but may be dangerous in the nose. The water should be sterile or filtered for micro-organisms; if tap water is used it should be boiled. Saline solution is also sometimes used. A number of other compounds may be included in irrigation fluids such as
“Boil some orange peels wit cayenne pepper in it stand over the pot breathe in the steam so all that mucus can release from yo nasal… MUCUS is the problem its where THE VIRUS LIVES!!!” [SEP] Eating mucus // mucus in adulthood and said they liked it. As mucus filters airborne contaminants, eating it could be thought to be unhealthy; Gates comments that "our body has been "built" to consume snot", because the nasal mucus is normally swallowed after being moved inside by the motion of the cilia. Friedrich Bischinger, a lung specialist at Privatklinik Hochrum in Innsbruck, says that nose-picking and eating could actually be beneficial for the immune system. In 2016 researchers in the quest for ways to fight superbugs discovered a promising candidate, a bacterium "Staphylococcus lugdunensis" that produces lugdunin, which "The Week" noted as "possibly
“Boil some orange peels wit cayenne pepper in it stand over the pot breathe in the steam so all that mucus can release from yo nasal… MUCUS is the problem its where THE VIRUS LIVES!!!” [SEP] Post-nasal drip // to help with secretions in the throat which may be causing discomfort to the sufferer. Furthermore, people can ask their doctor to prescribe steroid-based nasal sprays which are safe and more effective than decongestant sprays that can be bought over the counter and may only remain helpful for a limited period of time. Post-nasal drip Post-nasal drip (PND, also termed upper airway cough syndrome, UACS, or post nasal drip syndrome, PNDS) occurs when excessive mucus is produced by the nasal mucosa. The excess mucus accumulates in the back of the nose and eventually the throat once it drips down the
“Boil some orange peels wit cayenne pepper in it stand over the pot breathe in the steam so all that mucus can release from yo nasal… MUCUS is the problem its where THE VIRUS LIVES!!!” [SEP] Post-nasal drip // Post-nasal drip Post-nasal drip (PND, also termed upper airway cough syndrome, UACS, or post nasal drip syndrome, PNDS) occurs when excessive mucus is produced by the nasal mucosa. The excess mucus accumulates in the back of the nose and eventually the throat once it drips down the back of the throat. It is caused by rhinitis, sinusitis, gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), or by a disorder of swallowing (such as an esophageal motility disorder). But also further sources such as an allergy, cold or flu and as a result of medications. However, researchers argue that the flow of mucus down the
“Boil some orange peels wit cayenne pepper in it stand over the pot breathe in the steam so all that mucus can release from yo nasal… MUCUS is the problem its where THE VIRUS LIVES!!!” [SEP] Three Corpses // them in the sun (and continue this alternative steeping in the wine and drying them) until the wine is exhausted; then stop putting them out to dry. Pound them in an iron mortar and put them through a fine sieve to reduce them to powder. Then take white honey and mix the powder with it for making pills. In the morning, facing East, roll two pills the size of a small pea; then increase this by one pill (each day) to ten or more. This regimen cures third-degree fever within the belly, it truly makes the breath rise up in
“Boil some orange peels wit cayenne pepper in it stand over the pot breathe in the steam so all that mucus can release from yo nasal… MUCUS is the problem its where THE VIRUS LIVES!!!” [SEP] Mucus // treating typical cases. In the case of a viral infection such as cold or flu, the first stage and also the last stage of the infection cause the production of a clear, thin mucus in the nose or back of the throat. As the body begins to react to the virus (generally one to three days), mucus thickens and may turn yellow or green. Viral infections cannot be treated with antibiotics, and are a major avenue for their misuse. Treatment is generally symptom-based; often it is sufficient to allow the immune system to fight off the virus over time. Increased
“Boil some orange peels wit cayenne pepper in it stand over the pot breathe in the steam so all that mucus can release from yo nasal… MUCUS is the problem its where THE VIRUS LIVES!!!” [SEP] Pepper mild mottle virus // Up until 2005, the primary means of prevention was a pre-plant treatment of "Bromomethane" or methyl bromide. The import and production of this fumigation chemical was banned under the Montreal Protocol. A modern organic method of prevention was found by a Japanese study on soil adsorptions role in the adsorption of PMMoV. The study found that increased humus content in a soil will have an inhibitory effect on PMMoV adsorption. As with all plant viruses, but especially with those in the genus "Tobamovirus", avoidance is the best means of control. Growers must practice good sanitation procedures and only plant clean
“Boil some orange peels wit cayenne pepper in it stand over the pot breathe in the steam so all that mucus can release from yo nasal… MUCUS is the problem its where THE VIRUS LIVES!!!” [SEP] Eating mucus // a powerful antibiotic against resistant bacterial strains." The German team included study author Andreas Peschel, who told the "L.A. Times" "It was totally unexpected to find a human-associated bacteria to produce an antibiotic." Eating mucus Eating mucus is the act of extracting nasal mucus with one's finger (rhinotillexis) and the succeeding action of ingesting the mucus from the nose-picking (mucophagy). Nasal mucus is also termed as boogers, snot, bogeys, mucus secretion, and other related terms. Mucophagy is a common behavior in children and many adults. However, this action is frowned upon and stigmatized in most cultures and societies which try
“Boil some orange peels wit cayenne pepper in it stand over the pot breathe in the steam so all that mucus can release from yo nasal… MUCUS is the problem its where THE VIRUS LIVES!!!” [SEP] Croup // evidence to support their use. Inhalation of hot steam or humidified air is a traditional self-care treatment, but clinical studies have failed to show effectiveness and currently it is rarely used. The use of cough medicines, which usually contain dextromethorphan or guaifenesin, are also discouraged. There is tentative evidence that breathing heliox (a mixture of helium and oxygen) to decrease the work of breathing is useful in those with severe disease. Since croup is usually a viral disease, antibiotics are not used unless secondary bacterial infection is suspected. In cases of possible secondary bacterial infection, the antibiotics vancomycin and cefotaxime
Wrist replacement surgery is a last resort for those who wish to save hand’s range of motion [SEP] Joint replacement of the hand // one solid bone. This surgery stops all movement at that joint and therefore eliminates the pain. The benefit of fusion is pain relief and the downside is elimination of motion at the fused joint, which can hinder function. Arthritic joint replacements are usually the most effective surgical option in more youthful and active patients. Younger patients may not be candidates for joint replacement because of the increased stress demand on the joints which accompany higher activity levels. This increased stress demand can quickly wear out an artificial joint. For those with a hand deformity, the surgical procedure varies slightly. Instead
Wrist replacement surgery is a last resort for those who wish to save hand’s range of motion [SEP] Wrist osteoarthritis // of motion is extremely diminished by this type of surgery. The best option for those who wish for a motion-sparing procedure is total wrist arthroplasty. However, impact loading should be avoided, an object heavier than 4.5 kg should not be lifted. So, this surgical approach has postoperative activity restrictions. Nevertheless, patients with a total wrist arthrodesis on one side and a total wrist arthroplasty on the other, prefer the total wrist arthroplasty. The procedure exists of a couple of elements. First, the proximal row is removed and the distal row is fastened to the metacarpals. Then, one side of the
Wrist replacement surgery is a last resort for those who wish to save hand’s range of motion [SEP] Kienböck's disease // radiated downward to fill in the void. The hand now has a deformed, crippled appearance. The only procedure that can be done is the "total wrist fusion", where a plate is inserted on the top of the wrist from the radius to the carpals, effectively freezing all flexion and movement in the wrist. Rotation is still possible as it is controlled by the radius and ulna. This is currently the last and most complete surgical option for Kienböck's sufferers. Most of the treatments described here are not mutually exclusive — meaning that a single patient may receive many of them
Wrist replacement surgery is a last resort for those who wish to save hand’s range of motion [SEP] Upper-limb surgery in tetraplegia // effect (Tenodesis grasp) means that wrist flexion passively opens the hand and wrist extension passively closes the hand. (see pictures below) Wrist-related tenodesis effect is the key point of any functional surgery in a paralyzed hand, therefore active wrist extension is required and reconstruction of this active wrist extension is of utmost importance for the tetraplegic hand. If no active wrist extension is available (IC group 0 and 1), the brachioradialis (only IC group 1) can be transferred to achieve wrist extension. Active tendon transfers are possible if m. extensor carpi radialis longus and m. extensor carpi radialis brevis are
Wrist replacement surgery is a last resort for those who wish to save hand’s range of motion [SEP] Joint replacement // use of mobility aids (e.g. walking frames, canes, crutches) to enable the patient's return to preoperative mobility. Ankle replacement is becoming the treatment of choice for patients requiring arthroplasty, replacing the conventional use of arthrodesis, i.e. fusion of the bones. The restoration of range of motion is the key feature in favor of ankle replacement with respect to arthrodesis. However, clinical evidence of the superiority of the former has only been demonstrated for particular isolated implant designs. Finger joint replacement is a relatively quick procedure of about 30 minutes, but requires several months of subsequent therapy. Before major surgery is
Wrist replacement surgery is a last resort for those who wish to save hand’s range of motion [SEP] Wrist osteoarthritis // procedure)to increase the stability of the scaphoid. In the treatment of stage II wrist osteoarthritis, there are two treatment options that have proved to be most successful. The first treatment option is proximal row carpectomy. During this surgical intervention the proximal row of the carpal bones is removed (scaphoid, lunate, triquetrum, pisiform). It is important that the radioscaphocapitate ligament is left intact, because if the ligament is not preserved the capitate bone will translate to the ulnar side of the wrist and move away from the distal radius. The new formed joint between the capitate and the lunate fossa of
Wrist replacement surgery is a last resort for those who wish to save hand’s range of motion [SEP] Preiser disease // wrist joints. This often requires surgical intervention to prevent the progression of arthris. Two commonly performed procedures are: 1. Proximal row carpectomy (PRC), which involves removing the first row of the carpal bones, i.e. the scaphoid, lunate and triquetrum. The wrist is immobilised in a cast for six weeks after the surgery and then physiotherapy is started. 2. Scaphoid excision and 4-corner fusion, which is a procedure consisting of the removal of the scaphoid and fixation of the remaining wrist bones with a plate (called a "spider plate") or wires in order to provide stability. The plate usually is left
Wrist replacement surgery is a last resort for those who wish to save hand’s range of motion [SEP] Kienböck's disease // break apart due to the pressure of the surrounding bones. This causes sharp fragments of bone to float between the joints, causing excruciating pain. At this point, the lunate is ready for removal. The most frequently performed surgery is the "Proximal Row Carpectomy", where the lunate, scaphoid and triquetrum are extracted. This greatly limits the range of motion of the wrist, but pain relief can be achieved for longer than after the other surgeries. Another surgical option for this stage is a titanium, silicon or pyrocarbon implant that takes place of the lunate, though doctors shy from this due to
Wrist replacement surgery is a last resort for those who wish to save hand’s range of motion [SEP] Carpal tunnel surgery // hand surgery': with no tourniquet, no general or regional anaesthesia and no sedation; which also enables carpal tunnel release to be performed under local anaesthesia as a one stop procedure. After carpal tunnel surgery, the long term use of a splint on the wrist should not be used for relief. Splints do not improve grip strength, lateral pinch strength, or bowstringing. While splints may protect people working with their hands, using a splint does not change complication rates or patient satisfaction. Using splints can cause problems including adhesion and lack of flexibility. Carpal tunnel surgery is usually performed by a
Wrist replacement surgery is a last resort for those who wish to save hand’s range of motion [SEP] Joint replacement of the hand // of the joint being removed and replaced with a prosthetic hand, a hand from a donor is used. Joint replacement of the hand Joint replacement of the hand is a procedure that was invented by the Scottish scientist, Dr. Mitchell McGuire. The procedure was considered a major breakthrough in the medical field at the time. However, it is now considered an almost standard operation. The first successful surgery of this kind was conducted on 21 December 1992, in New York City, USA. This surgical option is reserved for patients with advanced arthritis or with a hand deformity. Merging of a
New psoriasis drug is more effective than current treatment [SEP] Psoriasis // and ustekinumab were the most effective biologics for treating psoriasis. In general, anti-IL17, anti-IL12/23, anti-IL23, and anti-TNF alpha biologics were found to be more effective than traditional systemic treatments. The immunologic pathways of psoriasis involve TH-9, TH-22, TH-17 and TH-1 lymphocytes, and the above biologics hinder different aspects of these pathways. Another treatment for moderate to severe psoriasis is fumaric acid esters (FAE) which may be similar in effectiveness to methotrexate. Limited evidence suggests removal of the tonsils may benefit people with chronic plaque psoriasis, guttate psoriasis, and palmoplantar pustulosis. Uncontrolled studies have suggested that individuals with psoriasis or psoriatic
New psoriasis drug is more effective than current treatment [SEP] Psoriasis // to use outside of research settings, which has led to attempts to simplify the index for clinical use. While no cure is available for psoriasis, many treatment options exist. Topical agents are typically used for mild disease, phototherapy for moderate disease, and systemic agents for severe disease. Topical corticosteroid preparations are the most effective agents when used continuously for 8 weeks; retinoids and coal tar were found to be of limited benefit and may be no better than placebo. Greater benefit has been observed with very potent corticosteroids when compared to potent corticosteroids. Vitamin D analogues such as paricalcitol were
New psoriasis drug is more effective than current treatment [SEP] Psoriatic arthritis // sulfasalazine. These immunosuppressant drugs can also reduce psoriasis skin symptoms but can lead to liver and kidney problems and an increased risk of serious infection. The most recent class of treatment is called biological response modifiers or biologics has been developed using recombinant DNA technology. Biologic medications are derived from living cells cultured in a laboratory. Unlike traditional DMARDS that affect the entire immune system, biologics target specific parts of the immune system. They are given by injection or intravenous (IV) infusion. Biologics prescribed for psoriatic arthritis are TNF-α inhibitors, including infliximab, etanercept, golimumab, certolizumab pegol and adalimumab, as well
New psoriasis drug is more effective than current treatment [SEP] Tofacitinib // investigational drug in psoriasis. Tofacitinib has demonstrated its effectiveness for plaque psoriasis in Phase 3 randomized, controlled trials in comparison to placebo and to etanercept. In particular, a 10 mg twice-daily dose of tofacitinib was shown to be noninferior to etanercept 50 mg subcutaneously twice weekly. Based on preclinical studies in a mouse model of the disease, tofacitinib has been investigated for the treatment of alopecia areata. Early case reports suggested potential efficacy, as did a phase II open-label clinical trial, published in tandem with a phase II clinical trial showing the same for ruxolitinib. In a June 2015 case
New psoriasis drug is more effective than current treatment [SEP] Ponesimod // Ponesimod Ponesimod (INN, codenamed ACT-128800) is an experimental drug for the treatment of multiple sclerosis (MS) and psoriasis. It is being developed by Actelion. In a 2009–2011 Phase II clinical trial including 464 MS patients, ponesimod treatment resulted in fewer new active brain lesions than placebo, measured during the course of 24 weeks. In a 2010–2012 Phase II clinical trial including 326 patients with psoriasis, 46 or 48% of patients (depending on dosage) had a reduction of at least 75% Psoriasis Area and Severity Index (PASI) score compared to placebo in 16 weeks. Common adverse effects in studies were temporary
New psoriasis drug is more effective than current treatment [SEP] Psoriasis // found to be superior to placebo. Combination therapy with vitamin D and a corticosteroid was superior to either treatment alone and vitamin D was found to be superior to coal tar for chronic plaque psoriasis. For psoriasis of the scalp, a 2016 review found dual therapy (vitamin D analogues and topical corticosteroids) or corticosteroid monotherapy to be more effective and safer than topical vitamin D analogues alone. Due to their similar safety profiles and minimal benefit of dual therapy over monotherapy, corticosteroid monotherapy appears to be an acceptable treatment for short-term treatment. Moisturizers and emollients such as mineral oil, petroleum
New psoriasis drug is more effective than current treatment [SEP] TNF inhibitor // guidelines for the treatment of severe psoriasis using the anti-TNF drugs etanercept (Enbrel) and adalimumab (Humira) as well as the anti-IL12/23 biological treatment ustekinumab (Stelara). In cases where more conventional systemic treatments such as psoralen combined with ultraviolet A treatment (PUVA), methotrexate, and ciclosporin have failed or can not be tolerated, these newer biological agents may be prescribed. Infliximab (Remicade) may be used to treat severe plaque psoriasis if aforementioned treatments fail or can not be tolerated. In 2010 The National Institute of Clinical Excellence (NICE) in the UK issued guidelines for the treatment of severe Crohn's Disease with Infliximab
New psoriasis drug is more effective than current treatment [SEP] Calcipotriol/betamethasone dipropionate // of plaque-type psoriasis vulgaris amenable to topical therapy. The foam formulation was approved by the FDA in 2015 and is indicated for the topical treatment of plaque psoriasis in patients 18 years of age and older. In all pivotal trials of Cal/BD ointment, topical suspension, or foam, treatment success or achievement of 'clear' or 'almost clear' disease was defined by Investigator's Global Assessment, an alternative to the Psoriasis Area and Severity Index (PASI) score. In an international, double-blind, parallel group study of 1603 patients with psoriasis (affecting at least 10% of one or more body regions), more patients on once-daily
New psoriasis drug is more effective than current treatment [SEP] Ixekizumab // months of treatment (depending on the dosing scheme), and 40% of patients experienced a complete absence of psoriasis symptoms (PASI100). In the placebo group, PASI75 was reached in 4% of patients, and PASI100 in none; in the group of patients receiving etanercept, an older anti-psoriasis drug, PASI75 was reached in 48%. Until the 60th study week, 11–44% of ixekizumab treated patients relapsed (again, depending on the dosing scheme), as compared to 84% under placebo. In December 2017 the US FDA approved it for active psoriatic arthritis. The drug is contraindicated for patients with certain infections such as active tuberculosis. In
New psoriasis drug is more effective than current treatment [SEP] Psoriasis // a different point than the anti-TNF-α antibodies. IL-12 and IL-23 share a common domain, p40, which is the target of the recently FDA-approved ustekinumab. In 2017 the US FDA approved guselkumab for plaque psoriasis. There have been few studies of the efficacy of anti-TNF drugs for psoriasis in children. One randomized control study suggested that 12 weeks of etanercept treatment reduced the extent of psoriasis in children with no lasting adverse effects. Two drugs that target T cells are efalizumab and alefacept. Efalizumab is a monoclonal antibody that specifically targets the CD11a subunit of LFA-1. It also blocks the adhesion
Walter "Blackie" Wetzel, a former leader of the Blackfeet Nation, designed the Indian head logo for the Washington D.C. "Redskins" NFL team. [SEP] Washington Redskins name controversy // logo for the NFL Braves was similar to the current logo, a Native American head in profile with braids and trailing feathers. The current logo, proposed by Walter Wetzel, a former Blackfeet tribal chairman and past president of the National Congress of American Indians, was introduced in 1972 and is modeled after the likeness on the Buffalo nickel. Members of the Blackfeet tribe express a range of opinions, from support to indifference to strong opposition to the Redskins name based upon their personal experiences. Advocates of changing the team's name say that stereotypes of Native Americans must be understood in
Walter "Blackie" Wetzel, a former leader of the Blackfeet Nation, designed the Indian head logo for the Washington D.C. "Redskins" NFL team. [SEP] Cleveland Indians name and logo controversy // Redskins as disparaging to Native Americans. In 1996, the Cleveland Institute of Art opened an exhibit featuring the work of Hachivi Edgar Heap of Birds, a half-Arapaho, half-Cheyenne associate professor of art at the University of Oklahoma. Among the pieces he designed for the exhibition was a 25-by-12 foot billboard featuring an image based upon Chief Wahoo and the text "Smile for Racism". Amidst controversy, the school initially announced that the piece would not be funded or shown. Heap of Birds announced his intent not to attend the opening, and alleged that the school was afraid of losing donations from
Walter "Blackie" Wetzel, a former leader of the Blackfeet Nation, designed the Indian head logo for the Washington D.C. "Redskins" NFL team. [SEP] Washington Redskins name controversy // video on YouTube entitled "Redskins is a Powerful Name" in which several Native Americans express their support for the team. Of the fourteen individuals, five are members of the Chippewa Cree tribe on the Rocky Boy Indian Reservation in Montana and are associated with the Team Redskins Rodeo club. Two are Mike Wetzel and Don Wetzel, Jr. (Blackfeet), descendants of the logo designer, and the six others are members of various tribes and state that they are fans of the team and find nothing wrong with the name, or think it is positive. One of the individuals in the video
Walter "Blackie" Wetzel, a former leader of the Blackfeet Nation, designed the Indian head logo for the Washington D.C. "Redskins" NFL team. [SEP] Chief Wahoo // team, including a small front-page visual box where his head would peek out to announce the outcome of the latest game. Journalist George Condon would write in 1972, "When the baseball club decided to adopt an Indian caricature as its official symbol, it hired an artist to draw a little guy who came very close to Reinert's creation; a blood brother, unquestionably." In 1947, Cleveland Indians owner Bill Veeck hired the J.F. Novak Company, designers of patches worn by the Cleveland police and fire departments, to create a new logo for his team. Seventeen-year-old draftsman Walter Goldbach, an employee of
Walter "Blackie" Wetzel, a former leader of the Blackfeet Nation, designed the Indian head logo for the Washington D.C. "Redskins" NFL team. [SEP] William Henry Dietz // he is recognized as an "Indian athlete" by Dan Snyder, owner of the Washington Redskins, "Indian Country Today Media Network" ran a series of articles in 2004 exposing Dietz as a white man masquerading as an Indian. In 1988, the National Congress of American Indians attempted to meet and discuss the issue with the team's former owner, Jack Kent Cooke, but Cooke refused a meeting. Dietz played at the Carlisle Indian Industrial School of Carlisle, Pennsylvania, with teammate Jim Thorpe, under famed coach Pop Warner. George Preston Marshall, owner and founder of the Boston Braves, sought to rename the franchise
Walter "Blackie" Wetzel, a former leader of the Blackfeet Nation, designed the Indian head logo for the Washington D.C. "Redskins" NFL team. [SEP] Washington Redskins // at that time who were Native American; and that in 1971 the then coach George Allen consulted with the Red Cloud Athletic Fund on the Pine Ridge reservation when designing the logo. Supporters also assert that a majority of Native Americans themselves are not offended, based upon a public opinion poll in 2004 in which 90% of those who identified as American Indians answered that they were "not bothered" by the name "Redskins" being used for the Washington football team. However, in a commentary published soon after that poll, fifteen Native American scholars collaborated on a critique that stated that
Walter "Blackie" Wetzel, a former leader of the Blackfeet Nation, designed the Indian head logo for the Washington D.C. "Redskins" NFL team. [SEP] Native American mascot controversy // the Delaware. The team that moved to become the Washington Redskins in 1937 was originally also known as the Boston Braves since the football and baseball teams played at Braves Field. After moving to Fenway Park, home of the Boston Red Sox, the team name was changed to the Boston Redskins in 1933, using a "red" identifier while retaining the Braves "Indian Head" logo. While defenders of the Redskins often cite coach William Henry Dietz, who claimed Native American heritage, to justify the name; the use of Native American names and imagery by this NFL team began in 1932 before
Walter "Blackie" Wetzel, a former leader of the Blackfeet Nation, designed the Indian head logo for the Washington D.C. "Redskins" NFL team. [SEP] Native American mascot controversy // skills rather than anything derogatory. Karl Swanson, then vice-president of the Washington Redskins professional football team, declared in the magazine "Sports Illustrated" that his team's name "symbolizes courage, dignity, and leadership", and that the "Redskins symbolize the greatness and strength of a grand people". However, many note that the behavior of fans at games is not respectful. Richard Lapchick, director emeritus of Northeastern University's Center for the Study of Sport in Society, in an article: "Could you imagine people mocking African Americans in black face at a game? Yet go to a game where there is a team with an
Walter "Blackie" Wetzel, a former leader of the Blackfeet Nation, designed the Indian head logo for the Washington D.C. "Redskins" NFL team. [SEP] Native American mascot controversy // which was highlighted in a meeting of the Black caucus of that organization in 2007. A group of sixty-one religious leaders in Washington, D.C. sent a letter to NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell and Redskin's owner Daniel Snyder stating their moral obligation to join the "Change the Mascot" movement due to the offensive and inappropriate nature of the name which causes pain whether or not that is intended. Members of the Indian Affairs Committee of the Baltimore Yearly Meeting of the Society of Friends approved a formal statement condemning the name of the Washington football team, stating that "the NFL has
Walter "Blackie" Wetzel, a former leader of the Blackfeet Nation, designed the Indian head logo for the Washington D.C. "Redskins" NFL team. [SEP] Washington Redskins Original Americans Foundation // a memorial to those lost to suicide. The Chippewa Cree Tribe of Montana accepted money from the foundation to build a playground, leaders stating that they do not care about the controversy. The Zuni Pueblo tribe sent notice to Native artists that representatives of the OAF would be visiting on August 11, 2014 to buy artwork, in particular anything that incorporated the team logo or colors. The director of the Zuni Museum and Heritage Center characterized the event as part of a "spin doctoring" campaign, and wondered why the purchases would not be made through the existing markets for Zuni
Researchers produce first widely protective vaccine against chlamydia [SEP] Chlamydia research // Rocky Mountain Laboratories in Hamilton, Montana, This facility is developing a vaccine to prevent Chlamydia trachomatis infection. The vaccine being tested is a single-component vaccine that is designed to protect against all 15 chlamydia varieties. Studies have already shown that the vaccine can prevent laboratory cells from becoming infected. Another prevention strategy being pursued is the development of topical microbicides (preparations that can be inserted into the vagina to prevent infection) that are effective and easy for women to use. Studies continue to determine organism's genetic makeup. NIAID-supported scientists determined the complete genome (genetic blueprint) for C. trachomatis. This instition
Researchers produce first widely protective vaccine against chlamydia [SEP] Chlamydia research // continues its research into Chlamydia infection. The Institute has published over 140 studies related to Chlamydia. There are research projects in several areas, including: development of a human vaccine for chlamydial sexually transmitted disease understanding basic mechanisms of regulation, including the importance of chlamydial proteases. Chlamydia infections in wildlife are part of the research into Chlamydia particularly koalas genomics and gene regulation studies in Chlamydia A sample list of primary publications. Vaccine development continues in many independent areas and institutions. Vaccine research is ongoing in independent and institutional settings. A clinical study involves research using human volunteers (also called participants)
Researchers produce first widely protective vaccine against chlamydia [SEP] HIV/AIDS research // RV 144. In 2009, the researchers reported that this vaccine showed some efficacy in protecting recipients from HIV infection. Results of this trial give the first supporting evidence of any vaccine being effective in lowering the risk of contracting HIV. Another possible vaccine comes from a novel gene therapy that alters the CCR5 co-receptor permanently, preventing HIV from entering cells. Other vaccine trials continue worldwide. One of the most recent and most promising trials was conducted by scientists at The Scripps Research Institute (TSRI) who found a way to attach HIV-fighting antibodies to immune cells, creating a HIV-resistant cell population.
Researchers produce first widely protective vaccine against chlamydia [SEP] William A. Haseltine // are now called "lentivirus vectors for gene therapy". The laboratory also created hybrid viruses that carry some monkey and some HIV genes-the so-called SHIV viruses-so that new drugs and vaccines could be developed using primate models. Haseltine was one of the first to publicly voice skepticism that an anti-HIV vaccine would soon be developed. At the second international HIV/AIDS meeting held in Paris in 1986 he noted that during infection the human immune response is fully activated, antiviral antibody levels are high and cell mediated immunity is fully active, yet the infection proceeds. Therefore, known vaccine technologies which induce either
Researchers produce first widely protective vaccine against chlamydia [SEP] M. Neal Guentzel // . Murphey C, Murthy AK, Meier PA, Neal Guentzel M, Zhong G, Arulanandam BP. "The protective efficacy of chlamydial protease-like activity factor vaccination is dependent upon CD4+ T cells". Cell Immunol. 2006 Aug;242(2):110-7. Murthy AK, Cong Y, Murphey C, Guentzel MN, Forsthuber TG, Zhong G, Arulanandam BP. "Chlamydial protease-like activity factor induces protective immunity against genital chlamydial infection in transgenic mice that express the human HLA-DR4 allele". Infect Immun. 2006 Dec;74(12):6722-9. Cong Y, Jupelli M, Guentzel MN, Zhong G, Murthy AK, Arulanandam BP. "Intranasal immunization with chlamydial protease-like activity factor and CpG deoxynucleotides enhances protective immunity against genital Chlamydia muridarum
Researchers produce first widely protective vaccine against chlamydia [SEP] William A. Haseltine // adjuvent, Stimulon, to make the vaccine more potent. It was the first vaccine to protect mammals from a retrovirus infection. Cambridge BioScience also participated in the creation of the first anti-HIV protease drug, Nelfinavir. In 1987 Haseltine became an advisor to a venture capital company, Healthcare Ventures. Over the next several years together they founded several biotechnology companies each working in a different area of science and medicine. In the late 1980s Haseltine was asked by several Harvard colleagues to help create their own companies. Among these was ProScript Inc. ProScript discovered the drug Velcade, an inhibitor of the proteosome,
Researchers produce first widely protective vaccine against chlamydia [SEP] SAV001 // SAV001 SAV001-H is the first preventive HIV vaccine using a killed or "dead version" of HIV-1 virus. The vaccine is developed by Dr. Chil-Yong Kang and his research team at Western University’s Schulich School of Medicine & Dentistry in Canada. The result of the US FDA Phase I clinical trial completed in August 2013 showed no serious adverse effects in 33 participants. The SAV001-H vaccine is considered as the first genetically modified version of the killed whole HIV-1 vaccine. According to Dr. Kang, HIV-1 strain is genetically engineered such that first, “the gene responsible for pathogenicity, known as "nef"” is
Researchers produce first widely protective vaccine against chlamydia [SEP] Pharmaceutical industry // recorded 206,000 cases of diphtheria in 1921 resulting in 15,520 deaths. In 1923 parallel efforts by Gaston Ramon at the Pasteur Institute and Alexander Glenny at the Wellcome Research Laboratories (later part of GlaxoSmithKline) led to the discovery that a safer vaccine could be produced by treating diphtheria toxin with formaldehyde. In 1944, Maurice Hilleman of Squibb Pharmaceuticals developed the first vaccine against Japanese encephelitis. Hilleman would later move to Merck where he would play a key role in the development of vaccines against measles, mumps, chickenpox, rubella, hepatitis A, hepatitis B, and meningitis. Prior to the 20th century drugs
Researchers produce first widely protective vaccine against chlamydia [SEP] Oncovirus // vaccines designed to prevent cancer have been created. The hepatitis B vaccine is the first vaccine that has been established to prevent cancer (hepatocellular carcinoma) by preventing infection with the causative virus. In 2006, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration approved a human papilloma virus vaccine, called Gardasil. The vaccine protects against four HPV types, which together cause 70% of cervical cancers and 90% of genital warts. In March 2007, the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) officially recommended that females aged 11–12 receive the vaccine, and indicated that females as young
Researchers produce first widely protective vaccine against chlamydia [SEP] University of Western Ontario // HIV/AIDS vaccine. SAV001-H is the first and only preventative HIV vaccine based on a genetically modified killed whole HIV-1 virus. The United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) Phase I clinical trial was completed in August 2013 and reported no serious adverse effects while boosting antibodies in the volunteers. The vaccine SAV001-H holds tremendous promise, having already proven to stimulate strong immune responses in preliminary toxicology tests. It is the only HIV vaccine under development in Canada, and one of only a few in the world. The two main student unions on administrative and policy issues is the University Students'
A medical examiner's conclusion that Health and Human Services drug pricing adviser Daniel Best died of multiple blunt force injuries contradicts the official ruling that he committed suicide. [SEP] Chris Benoit double-murder and suicide // before death or was a decomposition product. Decomposition also made it difficult to estimate pre-death levels of hydrocodone and alprazolam, found in "therapeutic levels" in her body. In any case, her medical examiner saw no evidence that she was sedated, as her son had been when he was killed. Daniel Christopher Benoit (February 25, 2000June 23, 2007) was Chris' third child and second son, having older paternal half-siblings named David and Megan via Chris's first wife, Martina. He was Nancy's only child, as she had no children with her ex-husbands Jim Daus and Kevin Sullivan. Daniel was suffocated and killed
A medical examiner's conclusion that Health and Human Services drug pricing adviser Daniel Best died of multiple blunt force injuries contradicts the official ruling that he committed suicide. [SEP] Death of Shane Todd // with an unnamed Chinese company may have been endangering U.S. national security. He had also told his family that he felt he was under threat because of his work with the Chinese. A Coroner's Inquiry was conducted over two weeks from 13–27 May 2013. Evidence was presented to show that multiple visits had been made to suicide websites from Dr. Todd's laptop and that he had been prescribed antidepressants by a psychiatrist. The finding by the Singapore government's forensic pathologist that no injuries to Dr. Todd's body indicated he was garotted or had put up a struggle was corroborated by
A medical examiner's conclusion that Health and Human Services drug pricing adviser Daniel Best died of multiple blunt force injuries contradicts the official ruling that he committed suicide. [SEP] Death of Dan Markingson // Death of Dan Markingson Dan Markingson (November 25, 1976 – May 8, 2004) was a young man from St. Paul, Minnesota who committed suicide in an ethically controversial psychiatric research study at the University of Minnesota while under an involuntary commitment order. For nearly eleven years, University of Minnesota officials defended the conduct of its researchers, despite significant public criticism, numerous news reports, and pressure for an external investigation. In March 2015, however, an investigation by a state watchdog agency found a number of alarming ethical violations in the case, including serious conflicts of interest and financial incentives, poor oversight
A medical examiner's conclusion that Health and Human Services drug pricing adviser Daniel Best died of multiple blunt force injuries contradicts the official ruling that he committed suicide. [SEP] Death of Tyrone West // Dr. William Manion to conduct an independent forensic investigation of Tyrone West's autopsy. Manion, the chief of pathology at Memorial Hospital in Salem County, New Jersey, concluded that he died by suffocation as a result of the way police restrained him, calling it positional asphyxia. This contradicted earlier assertions that he died of a heart condition. Dr. Manion acknowledged the cardiac abnormality but did not believe it contributed to the death of West, submitting his findings in November 2015. In 2013, Assistant State's Attorney Marilyn Mosby defeated State's Attorney Gregg L. Bernstein, winning the election over the attorney who failed
A medical examiner's conclusion that Health and Human Services drug pricing adviser Daniel Best died of multiple blunt force injuries contradicts the official ruling that he committed suicide. [SEP] Garrett K. Gomez // hotel room at the Casino Del Sol Hotel in Tucson, AZ. Dr. Gregory Hess, Chief Medical Examiner in Pima County, AZ, ruled the death an accident. The autopsy report, released Feb. 8, 2017, by the Forensic Science Center in Pima County, Arizona stated that Garrett K. Gomez died in December with six different “drugs of abuse” in his system and that a diseased heart muscle also contributed to the “accident” of his death. “In consideration of the known circumstances surrounding this death and the examination of the remains, the cause of death is ascribed to a methamphetamine intoxication with cardiomyopathy
A medical examiner's conclusion that Health and Human Services drug pricing adviser Daniel Best died of multiple blunt force injuries contradicts the official ruling that he committed suicide. [SEP] Chris Benoit double-murder and suicide // under normal circumstances. It is believed that Daniel was sedated prior to being murdered, with Sperry ruling out that Daniel died of a drug overdose. The GBI, however, said in the press conference that it could not perform tests for steroids or human growth hormones on Daniel because of a lack of urine. Xanax and hydrocodone were also found in Chris Benoit's system, at levels investigators called consistent with therapeutic use. Elevated levels of synthetic anabolic steroid testosterone cypionate were found in his urine; investigators believed that the level found suggested it had been taken recently. While the synthetic anabolic
A medical examiner's conclusion that Health and Human Services drug pricing adviser Daniel Best died of multiple blunt force injuries contradicts the official ruling that he committed suicide. [SEP] Colin Bouwer // investigation showed they had been obtained via 11 forged prescriptions. Bouwer claimed he was suffering from cancer and depression and had obtained the drugs to commit suicide. The police found a string of email inquiries he had sent to hypoglycaemia experts, claiming he was a forensic psychiatrist. In particular he asked how likely an insulin injection was to be determined as the cause of death. The police established that Bouwer was having a relationship with Dr. Anne Walshe. Within weeks of their relationship beginning, he began obtaining the forged prescriptions. Walshe was not suspected of being involved in (or even
A medical examiner's conclusion that Health and Human Services drug pricing adviser Daniel Best died of multiple blunt force injuries contradicts the official ruling that he committed suicide. [SEP] Death of Shane Todd // two independent Chief Medical Examiners from the United States. No hacking attempts on Todd's laptop to upload suicide notes were found. On July 8, the coroner released the verdict which ruled the death as "asphyxia due to hanging". Todd had earned his bachelor's and master's degree in electrical engineering at the University of Florida in 2003 and 2005, respectively. He then pursued doctoral studies at the University of California, Santa Barbara, where he researched silicon-based transmission lines. Upon completion of his PhD in 2010, he took a job offer to work for IME. During this assignment, he worked on a
A medical examiner's conclusion that Health and Human Services drug pricing adviser Daniel Best died of multiple blunt force injuries contradicts the official ruling that he committed suicide. [SEP] Kenneth Michael Trentadue // issued in Trentadue's case. The jury was convened on July 6, 1996. Medical examiner Fred Jordan remained firm in his refusal to classify the death a suicide. Jordan told the U.S. Attorney's Office that Trentadue had been "abused and tortured", and would even go so far as to say "the federal grand jury is part of a cover-up." To review the case, the Department of Justice consulted forensic pathologist Bill Gormley, of the Armed Forces Institute of Pathology. Gormley contacted Kevin Rowland, the original chief investigator assigned the case by the Oklahoma state medical examiner. In his memo of the
A medical examiner's conclusion that Health and Human Services drug pricing adviser Daniel Best died of multiple blunt force injuries contradicts the official ruling that he committed suicide. [SEP] Death of Shane Todd // support the suicide hypothesis. Instead, it appeared Dr. Todd was involved in a fight with an attacker and died by "garrotting". The original pathologist in Singapore dismissed Adelstein's conclusions, stating that Adelstein had not seen the body and had mistaken the post-mortem pooling of blood in the hands for bruises. The FBI offered assistance to authorities in Singapore to investigate Dr. Todd's death, but their help was initially refused. On the 28th of February 2013, the Singapore Police Force requested help from the FBI on two specific areas regarding the case, namely (a) an external hard drive that contains some
A federal judge has approved GOP Congressman Trey Gowdy’s request to exhume the body of Vince Foster to determine if Bill and Hillary Clinton were involved in his death 23 years ago. [SEP] The Clinton Chronicles // film. He cleared Clinton of involvement with Vince Foster's death in the Starr Report. Linda Ives continues to search for justice for her son's death. The film mentioned that her son's death was controversially ruled accidental by an examiner who had a history of questionable rulings. After the film aired, she had her son's body exhumed and a second autopsy performed. She successfully had the original examiner's ruling overruled and the cause of death for Kevin Ives and Don Henry was changed from accidental to homicide. In February 2018, Billy Jack Haynes, a professional wrestler with a history of making
A federal judge has approved GOP Congressman Trey Gowdy’s request to exhume the body of Vince Foster to determine if Bill and Hillary Clinton were involved in his death 23 years ago. [SEP] Suicide of Vince Foster // that Foster's death may have been a homicide, possibly involving the Clintons themselves. Subsequent investigations by special prosecutor Robert Fiske and the Senate Banking Committee concluded that there was no evidence of a homicide. A final investigation, led by special prosecutor Kenneth Starr, also concluded that there was no evidence to support the claim that Foster was murdered. Starr's report addressed several additional questions about physical and forensic evidence that had previously fueled speculation about the case. The report established that Foster owned the handgun used in the suicide, and confirmed that the body had not been moved from its
A federal judge has approved GOP Congressman Trey Gowdy’s request to exhume the body of Vince Foster to determine if Bill and Hillary Clinton were involved in his death 23 years ago. [SEP] Rex Armistead // for R. Emmett Tyrrell, editor of the "American Spectator," who published the (unsupported) allegations just before the 1996 presidential election. On July 20, 1993 in Fort Marcy Park, Virginia, Vince Foster, a deputy White House Counsel during Clinton's first presidential term, was found with a gunshot to the head, a day after contacting his doctor to get treatment for depression. Several official investigations concluded unequivocally that the death was a suicide. However, as he was a law partner and friend of Hillary Rodham Clinton, it was alleged by a number of anti-Clinton conspiracy theorists that his knowledge of the Clintons'
A federal judge has approved GOP Congressman Trey Gowdy’s request to exhume the body of Vince Foster to determine if Bill and Hillary Clinton were involved in his death 23 years ago. [SEP] Suicide of Vince Foster // So, the Jerry Falwells and the right-wing crowd get a hold of this information, and…they start making movies alleging that the Clintons were involved in this murder." In 1994, Falwell subsidized the creation of a film called "The Clinton Chronicles" that featured Ruddy's claims that the gun that killed Foster was placed in his hand after the fact, and that Foster's body was laid out to give the appearance of suicide, among others. Funding for the film was provided by "Citizens for Honest Government", an organization to which Falwell gave $200,000 in 1994 and 1995. Citizens for Honest Government covertly
A federal judge has approved GOP Congressman Trey Gowdy’s request to exhume the body of Vince Foster to determine if Bill and Hillary Clinton were involved in his death 23 years ago. [SEP] Vince Foster // Vince Foster Vincent Walker Foster Jr. (January 15, 1945 – July 20, 1993) was a Deputy White House Counsel during the first six months of President Bill Clinton's administration. He had been a partner at Rose Law Firm in Little Rock, Arkansas, where he was a colleague and friend of Hillary Rodham Clinton and where, as "The Washington Post" later wrote, he rose to "the pinnacle of the Arkansas legal establishment." At the White House he was unhappy with work in politics and spiraled into depression. Five official governmental investigations ruled Foster's death by gunshot a suicide, but several conspiracy
A federal judge has approved GOP Congressman Trey Gowdy’s request to exhume the body of Vince Foster to determine if Bill and Hillary Clinton were involved in his death 23 years ago. [SEP] Accuracy in Media // Mellon Scaife who paid Christopher W. Ruddy to investigate allegations that President Bill Clinton was connected to the suicide of Vince Foster. AIM contended that "Foster was murdered", which is contrary to three independent reports including one by Kenneth Starr. AIM faulted the media for not picking up on the conspiracy, and applied itself for FOIA disclosure of Foster's death-scene photographs. Its suit to compel disclosure was denied by the District Court of Columbia in a summary judgment, unanimously affirmed by the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia. AIM credited much of its reporting on the Foster case
A federal judge has approved GOP Congressman Trey Gowdy’s request to exhume the body of Vince Foster to determine if Bill and Hillary Clinton were involved in his death 23 years ago. [SEP] Robert B. Fiske // report on June 30 that in summary concluded that President Bill Clinton and White House officials had not interfered with the Resolution Trust Corporation, which was investigating the failed Madison Guaranty Savings & Loan, a partner of the Whitewater Development Corporation. Fiske's report also concluded that Vince Foster committed suicide. On the same day that Fiske released this report, President Clinton signed the Independent Counsel Reauthorization Act of 1994, effectively abolishing the position of Special Prosecutor and replacing it with the position of Independent Counsel. Under the new law, the Special Division had sole authority to select Independent Counsels. Janet
A federal judge has approved GOP Congressman Trey Gowdy’s request to exhume the body of Vince Foster to determine if Bill and Hillary Clinton were involved in his death 23 years ago. [SEP] Mark I. Levy // Foster whose death, coincidentally, also was ruled a suicide. However, some persons believed that Foster's death was not a suicide. Kenneth Starr, the special prosecutor who investigated Bill Clinton, argued in the Supreme Court that he was entitled to have access to the notes made by James Hamilton, Foster's personal lawyer, during an interview that occurred nine days before Foster's death. Levy filed a friend-of-the-court brief, arguing that Hamilton's notes of his discussions with Foster were protected by the attorney-client privilege even after Foster's death. The Supreme Court ruled that the privilege continued even after Foster's death, and denied Starr
A federal judge has approved GOP Congressman Trey Gowdy’s request to exhume the body of Vince Foster to determine if Bill and Hillary Clinton were involved in his death 23 years ago. [SEP] Suicide of Vince Foster // paid individuals who had provided information to media outlets such as the "Wall Street Journal" editorial page and the "American Spectator" magazine;" and in 1995, made discretionary payments to two Arkansas state troopers who had spoken out in support of the idea of a conspiracy surrounding Foster's death. The two troopers, Roger Perry and Larry Patterson, had also previously given testimony supporting Paula Jones' claims of sexual misconduct and misuse of government resources against Bill Clinton (see Troopergate). Patrick Matrisciana, president of Citizens for Honest Government, produced "The Clinton Chronicles" video and appeared in its commercials as an "investigative reporter"
A federal judge has approved GOP Congressman Trey Gowdy’s request to exhume the body of Vince Foster to determine if Bill and Hillary Clinton were involved in his death 23 years ago. [SEP] White House travel office controversy // that "[Hillary] Clinton, upon learning of [Vince] Foster's death, at least realized its connection to [the] Travelgate scandal, and perhaps to the Whitewater matter, and dispatched her trusted lieutenants to contain any potential embarrassment or political damage." Minority Democratic members of the Committee derided these findings as "a legislative travesty," "a witch hunt," and "a political game." The House Government Reform and Oversight Committee issued its majority report on September 18, 1996, in which it accused the Clinton administration of having obstructed the committee's efforts to investigate the Travelgate scandal. It portrayed Bill Clinton as being heavily involved in the
A photograph shows an eagle catching a drone. [SEP] Conservation Drones // thermal-imaging, drones capture heat signatures which indicates poachers and wildlife traffickers. David Wilkie, the director of conservation measures for the Wildlife Conservation Society, stated they had deployed drones in Belize to examine illegal fishing near the vulnerable reef area. With the use of funds from Google, the World Wildlife Fund is using different technology methods such as drones to combat poaching in Africa. The Associated Press used a drone to observe a mission in Hluhluwe-iMfolozi to look for heat-emitting objects in shapes of similarity to a rice grain to track a team of poachers such as a tracker, shooter, and
A photograph shows an eagle catching a drone. [SEP] Ryan Model 147 // camera payload featuring a front-to-back scan camera, a side-to-side scan camera and a new paint job. The high-altitude Lightning Bugs had been painted black which is a high-visibility color at low altitude. Model 147Js were painted gray on top and white underneath. The fast-moving 147J drones streaked low over the ground, making them difficult targets and increasing their odds of returning from a mission. Up to that time the drones had parachuted to the ground when they returned, but were often damaged by the impact; the USAF then came up with a retrieval method using a big Sikorsky CH-3E helicopter
A photograph shows an eagle catching a drone. [SEP] Shooting Star (drone) // (UAVs) airborne simultaneously". The drones were used for the Super Bowl LI halftime show performance by Lady Gaga in 2017, in which 300 Shooting Stars formed an American flag in the sky. Because of the tight regulations during the show and establishment of a no-drone flight zone, the drone show was recorded beforehand. Josh Walden of Intel's New Technologies Group stated that one possible application of the technology is to use large numbers of drones to perform a visual inspection much more quickly than a single unit. During Art Basel Miami Beach 2017 Intel worked together with Studio Drift and
A photograph shows an eagle catching a drone. [SEP] Conservation Drones // people several days to accomplish on land. With a conservation drone, it was possible to survey 30 to 50 kilometers of Colorado without missing or recounting individuals. Aerial imagery yields interesting data with a high success rate. A geographic mapping programs captures hundreds of images combining these images into one big map. Similar to a Google Earth map, conservation drone images are more detailed, using 2 centimeters resolution/pixel. Conservation Drones can be used to map a variety of landscapes such as ocean waters, and forest and depict a timeline of ecological issues. For example, drones can monitor U.S. National Parks
A photograph shows an eagle catching a drone. [SEP] Dronestagram // the other end, street view images" and notes that "it represents an 'intermediary layer'". He calls it "a new photographic language" and asserts that "part of the appeal is that drones can capture images of places that are impossible to reach with another flying device" and that while "with satellite images, and apps like Google Earth, we are now used to seeing Earth from above", "drone photos bring a new way of seeing the world, at low altitude, near landscapes and buildings, like a bird would do". The site also features a drone business directory and a drone pictures world
A photograph shows an eagle catching a drone. [SEP] Dronestagram // 2015 UN climate summit in Paris, Dronestagram launched the 'Small drones, big changes' competition to find the best aerial photographs that illustrate "the effects of pollution on planet Earth and the solutions to tackle the problem". Dronestagram is partner of the Professional Drone Film Festival Contest dedicated to drone cinematographic art in Nantes. According to Eric Dupin drone photography quite literally offers a whole new perspective - he says "it depicts a new vision of the world, with stunning images taken from low altitude, near field" and distinguishes these from "images taken by satellite or plane or helicopter, or, on
A photograph shows an eagle catching a drone. [SEP] Parrot AR.Drone // vehicles (UAVs) existed prior to the release of the AR.Drone, it was not widely available to members of the public. In Germany, consumer affairs minister Ilse Aigner described the drone as a privacy threat, and called for restrictions to be placed on the use of cameras mounted on aerial platforms. A UK advertising campaign, showing an AR.Drone being flown into the grounds of Buckingham Palace was withdrawn after concerns that it was demonstrating illegal use of the drone. In the US, the use of AR.Drones is governed by the Federal Aviation Administration at the Federal level and local jurisdiction, which
A photograph shows an eagle catching a drone. [SEP] Israel-related animal conspiracy theories // equipped with electronic devices. Iran's Press TV later claimed the bird was an eagle "equipped with Mossad's tracking and other surveillance devices." Ohad Hazofe, the avian ecologist, told Israeli news site Ynet: "This is a young vulture that was tagged, along with 100 others, in October. He has two wing bands and a German-made GPS chip." Hazofe denied that the device had any photographic capabilities. In an interview with CNN, he stated that "I'm not an intelligence expert, but what would be learned from putting a camera onto a vulture? You cannot control it. It's not a drone that you
A photograph shows an eagle catching a drone. [SEP] Drone (2017 film) // the capture of a trailing man. Breaking down in grief after packing the last of his father's belongings and donating his clothes, Wistin returns home. While home, Wistin catches Shaw standing outside of his home and goes out to investigate. Shaw claims to be interested in buying a boat Wistin had displayed in the front of his home for sale. The boat was Wistin's father's that he was given when his father could no longer care for it. The two enter Wistin's home to discuss the price of the boat while the CIA track down Shaw as the source of
A photograph shows an eagle catching a drone. [SEP] Sofreh Mahi // similar to the Eagle ray resulting in the drone being called the "Sofreh Mahi" (the Persian for "Eagle Ray"). The drone is also made out of special materials that absorb radar energy. These two features give it the ability to evade enemy radars. General Aziz Nasirzadeh, Lieutenant Commander of the Iranian Army Air Force, stated that the UAV 'Sofreh Mahi' has been designed and manufactured for reconnaissance and bombing missions, considering its radar-evading capability. General Nasirzadeh also announced that once the aircraft passes further tests, and its features and capabilities are completed, the Defense Ministry will begin the production. "Production
Christmas miracle for Florida dog whose heart stopped. [SEP] The Dog Who Saved Christmas // The Dog Who Saved Christmas The Dog Who Saved Christmas is a TV movie starring Dean Cain, Gary Valentine and the voice of Mario López. It was written by childhood friends Michael Ciminera and Richard Gnolfo. It premiered on ABC Family on November 29, 2009 during their Countdown to 25 Days of Christmas programming block. It was ranked as the number one cable program during its timeslot, and the number one cable film of the 2009 winter season with 4.0 million viewers. Zeus, a Labrador Retriever and a former police dog, has lost his bark after his barking ended up
Christmas miracle for Florida dog whose heart stopped. [SEP] The Dog Who Saved Christmas Vacation // The Dog Who Saved Christmas Vacation The Dog Who Saved Christmas Vacation is a 2010 sequel to the ABC Family 2009 movie "The Dog Who Saved Christmas". The movie stars Paris Hilton (in her first voice role) and Mario Lopez. It premiered on ABC Family on November 28, 2010 during the Countdown to 25 Days of Christmas programming block and was written by Michael Ciminera and Richard Gnolfo. The Bannister family and their dog Zeus, go to a ski lodge in Colorado for their Christmas vacation. When they get to their condo, they find Belinda's brother and his son staying
Christmas miracle for Florida dog whose heart stopped. [SEP] The Dog Who Saved Christmas Vacation // knocking down a tower of Christmas presents. The family finds the dogs at the village. London James gets her necklace back, Ted and Stewey are arrested, and Zeus and Bella become a couple. The Dog Who Saved Christmas Vacation The Dog Who Saved Christmas Vacation is a 2010 sequel to the ABC Family 2009 movie "The Dog Who Saved Christmas". The movie stars Paris Hilton (in her first voice role) and Mario Lopez. It premiered on ABC Family on November 28, 2010 during the Countdown to 25 Days of Christmas programming block and was written by Michael Ciminera and Richard
Christmas miracle for Florida dog whose heart stopped. [SEP] Santa Buddies // (Kaitlyn Maher) who is wishing for a Christmas miracle and sings a song about miracles, which teaches Puppy Paws about the true meaning of Christmas. The Buddies, along with an elf dog named Eddy (Richard Kind), come to the rescue. Eddy tells Cruge that he knows the dog catcher always wanted a puppy for Christmas, but his mother was allergic to dogs and never got one, which made Cruge hate Christmas and become a dog catcher. With help from an elf named Eli (Danny Woodburn), Christmas spirit returns, the Christmas Icicle stops melting, and the North Pole is back in
Christmas miracle for Florida dog whose heart stopped. [SEP] The Dog Who Saved Christmas // Adrienne Barbeau and Mindy Sterling. "The Dog Who Saved Christmas" won several "Yulies" from the Popwatch column on Entertainment Weekly's website. The categories it won included "MVP: Most Valuable Pooch" and "Best Use of Dean Cain". It was given the "Family Approved" seal by The Dove Foundation. Commonsense Media graded it as appropriate for ages 6 and up. A sequel, "The Dog Who Saved Christmas Vacation", aired on ABC Family in 2010. A second sequel, "The Dog Who Saved Halloween", was released directly to DVD in September 2011. A third sequel, "The Dog Who Saved the Holidays", was released directly
Christmas miracle for Florida dog whose heart stopped. [SEP] The Dog Who Saved Christmas // that Sunday, and became the season's number one cable film of the season. Overall, it was a 14% increase in viewers from the same timeslot in the previous year. Critics compared it to another Christmas dog themed TV movie of 2009, "A Dog Named Christmas" and cited influences from "Home Alone" and "Look Who's Talking". "A Dog Named Christmas" was broadcast on the same night as "The Dog Who Saved Christmas" with the original timings overlapping by an hour. Overall, critics rated "A Dog Named Christmas" as the superior film over "The Dog Who Saved Christmas," but praised the performances
Christmas miracle for Florida dog whose heart stopped. [SEP] Denise Darvall // adopted in South Africa or elsewhere for some years. The problem in this case was that, although Denise's brain was damaged, her heart was healthy. Various reports over the years attributed conflicting reasons for her heart stopping. For forty years, Barnard's brother Marius kept a secret: that rather than wait for her heart to stop beating, at Marius's urging, Christiaan had injected potassium into Denise's heart to paralyze it and thus, to render her technically dead by the whole-body standard. After her father gave his consent, Darvall's heart was donated to Louis Washkansky. Her kidneys were given to 10-year-old Jonathan
Christmas miracle for Florida dog whose heart stopped. [SEP] The Dog Who Saved Christmas // to DVD on December 4, 2012. A fourth sequel, "The Dog Who Saved Easter", was released directly to DVD on April 8, 2014. It stars Dean Cain, Elisa Donovan, Beverley Mitchell, Mario Lopez, Patrick Muldoon, Matthew Lawrence and Catherine Hicks. A fifth sequel, "The Dog Who Saved Summer", was released directly to DVD on June 2, 2015. It stars Dean Cain, Gary Valentine, Elisa Donovan, Patrick Muldoon, Mario Lopez, Martin Kove, James Hong and William Zabka. The Dog Who Saved Christmas The Dog Who Saved Christmas is a TV movie starring Dean Cain, Gary Valentine and the voice of Mario
Christmas miracle for Florida dog whose heart stopped. [SEP] The Dog Who Saved Christmas // blowing off a five-year investigation and his partner can't shoot straight again and ends up at the pound. He is adopted by George Bannister as both an early Christmas present and as a good guard dog for the house, but the mom is hesitant and didn't want a dog. The dog is left home alone on Christmas Eve when the family head off to visit Grandma's house. A pair of burglars, Ted Stein and Stewey McMann break into the family home, and it is up to Zeus to save Christmas for his new family by setting up booby traps to
Christmas miracle for Florida dog whose heart stopped. [SEP] Gaetano Orlando // in March 2011, Orlando was diagnosed with congestive heart failure. He was participating in a clinical study of Life Vest, a wearable defibrillator. On May 22, the defibrillator saved his life after his heart stopped for 40 seconds. Orlando was the first participant in the study to have required the vest to deliver a shock. On April 4, 2012, Orlando received an artificial heart to extend his life while he waits for a donated biological heart. The operation, performed at the University of Rochester Medical Center, was the first such operation in Upstate New York. He received a lot of
Another dolphin dies at Arizona aquatic facility. [SEP] Minnesota Zoo // death. April was around 42 years old, making her one of the older bottlenose dolphins known in human care. On February 6, 2012, Semo and Allie's 1 1/2 year old calf Tajiah died suddenly of complications from a stomach ulcer. In all, a total of 19 dolphins have been housed at the zoo over the years: Semo, Flipper, April, Rio, Vince, Mindy, Chinook, Allie, Shadow, DJ, Ayla, Mindy's 1997 stillborn, Spree, Harley, Tapeko, Noelani, Allison, Allie's 2009 stillborn, and Taijah. As of 2013, Semo, Tapeko, Chinook, Allie, Shadow, Spree, Noelani, and Allison were still alive. Flipper, April, and Rio all
Another dolphin dies at Arizona aquatic facility. [SEP] Minnesota Zoo // a freak accident. He had been learning to swim between the pools when he jumped out of the water and hit his head on the deck between the pools. Another dolphin, "Ayla", who suffered from Scoliosis or curvature of the spine, was euthanized at age 14 in December 2006. She had stopped eating and stopped responding to her medication. At that time the remaining dolphins at the zoo were "Spree," "Chinook" and "Semo." In 2007, the zoo shipped Chinook, a 24-year-old male, to the National Aquarium in Baltimore. Chinook was moved because the aquarium had seven adult females and no
Another dolphin dies at Arizona aquatic facility. [SEP] Dolphin Research Center // "Sun-Sentinel" alleged that the Dolphin Research Center failed to report the birth and death of a dolphin calf to the National Marine Fisheries Service in 2001, nor did it report the birth of a calf in 2002. The National Marine Fisheries Service is required to keep a record of captive marine mammal births, deaths, and transfers in the United States. After Hurricane Andrew struck the Florida Keys in 1992, the DRC dolphin "Annessa" escaped or was washed out of her sea pen. Opponents of dolphin captivity including Ric O'Barry allege that Annessa is an example of a captive-born dolphin successfully
Another dolphin dies at Arizona aquatic facility. [SEP] Dolphin Encounters // animal trainer program. All of the dolphins at the facility are native to Bahamian waters. The original group of sea lions were displaced following Hurricane Katrina in Gulfport, Mississippi. Dolphin Encounters Dolphin Encounters is a natural seawater dolphin facility located on Blue Lagoon Island, (Salt Cay), Nassau, Bahamas. The company started as a rescue facility in 1989. The beach scenes in the movie "Splash" were taped on Blue Lagoon Island and the facility houses Atlantic bottlenose dolphins, ("tursiops truncatus") and California sea lions. Dolphin Encounters is owned and operated by a local family. The facility has received a Cacique Award
Another dolphin dies at Arizona aquatic facility. [SEP] SeaWorld // the bottom of the stadium pool during a show after hearing her calf crying for her in the back pools. In February 2010, an experienced female trainer at SeaWorld Orlando, Dawn Brancheau, was killed by killer whale Tilikum shortly after a show in Shamu Stadium. The whale had been associated with the deaths of two people previously. In May 2012, administrative law judge Ken Welsch upheld two Occupational Safety and Health Administration citations after Dawn Brancheau's death, including one directly related to her death, and fined the company a total of $12,000. Trainers were banned from making close contact with
Another dolphin dies at Arizona aquatic facility. [SEP] Loro Parque // attacked and nearly drowned by Tekoa. After this attack, the trainers ceased to do waterwork for more than six months, and never again with Tekoa. In the spring of 2009, Skyla, the youngest orca, was also excluded from waterwork after she pushed trainer Rafa Sanchez around in the pool and up against the walls with her rostrum during a show. A few months later, on Christmas Eve of 2009, 29-year-old Alexis Martínez was killed by Keto. After spending two and a half minutes at the bottom of the 12-meter deep main pool, his body was retrieved but could not be
Another dolphin dies at Arizona aquatic facility. [SEP] Death of Alexis Martínez // signals given: On December 24, 2009, exactly two months before Tilikum killed Dawn Brancheau, Loro Parque trainer A. M. (Alexis Martínez) was working with Keto, a killer whale owned by SeaWorld Parks & Entertainment. During a training session, Keto pulled A. M. under water and then rammed him in his chest. A. M. died of massive internal bleeding (Tr. 408). A SeaWorld employee described the 21 event in an incident report. After Keto failed to perform a number of behaviors correctly, A. M. and Keto were floating on the surface of the pool: Keto came up with [A. M.] and
Another dolphin dies at Arizona aquatic facility. [SEP] Grassy Key // the movie in 1963. Mitzi died in 1972, and a large memorial was placed on the ground shortly after. Milton sold the training school shortly after Mitzi's death to Wombetco Corporation, which dubbed the school Flipper's Training School. In 1983 Jayne and Armando Rodriguez opened the Dolphin Research Center as a nonprofit organization. The Dolphin Research Center is still open today at mile marker #59 and it is the primary attraction in Grassy Key. Grassy Key Grassy Key, Florida, is an island in the middle Florida Keys. It is located on U.S. 1 (or the Overseas Highway), at approximately mile
Another dolphin dies at Arizona aquatic facility. [SEP] Captive killer whales // be revived. The park initially characterized the death as an "accident" and claimed that the body showed no signs of violence, but the subsequent autopsy report stated that Martinez died due to grave injuries sustained by an orca attack, including multiple compression fractures, tears to vital organs, and the bite marks of the animal on his body. During the investigation into the death of Alexis Martinez, it came to light that the park had also mischaracterized to the public a 2007 incident with Tekoa, the other male, and claimed it was also an accident rather than an attack. The only
Another dolphin dies at Arizona aquatic facility. [SEP] Sea Life Arizona // Sea Life Arizona Sea Life Arizona is a 26,000 square foot interactive aquarium located at Arizona Mills in Tempe, Arizona. The aquarium contains thousands of aquatic creatures, plus interactive touch pools and a 360° ocean tunnel. Sea Life Arizona is owned and operated by Merlin Entertainments, which operates over thirty other aquariums in eleven countries on two continents. Eight of these are in the United States. Sea Life Arizona provides permanent homes for injured or disabled aquatic creatures who would have otherwise been killed or euthanized. In 2012 the facility became the home of an endangered green sea turtle named
What the facts say" is ... "the best scenario for kids is a loving mom and dad. [SEP] Fathers' rights movement // child has about equal time with mom and dad, the parents live close enough to each other that the child does not need to forfeit friends or activities when visiting the other parent, and there is no bad-mouthing) is the second best family arrangement to the intact two-parent family, followed by primary father custody and then primary mother custody, and he adds that if shared parenting cannot be agreed upon, children on average are better off psychologically, socially, academically, and physically, have higher levels of empathy and assertiveness, and lower levels of ADHD, if their father is their primary custodial
What the facts say" is ... "the best scenario for kids is a loving mom and dad. [SEP] Daddy's Roommate // as it is addressing a reality that children will experience. The book depicts a boy whose three parents all care for and love him, and Finnessy contributes multiple interviews from diverse parents who appreciate the book's loving, safe, and fun household that all children can learn from. In the decade following the book's publication, it was one of the most challenged books in the country, with the American Library Association listing it as the most contested book in 1993 and 1994. Its prominence as one of the first children's books to illustrate a gay relationships has led to its inclusion
What the facts say" is ... "the best scenario for kids is a loving mom and dad. [SEP] Same-sex marriage and the family // parents. According to scientific literature reviews published in prestigious peer-reviewed journals and statements of mainstream professional associations, there is no evidence to the contrary. The American Psychological Association reports that some studies suggest parenting skills of gays and lesbians might be "superior." Biblarz and Stacey state that while research has found that families headed by (at least) two parents are generally best for children, outcomes of more than two parents (as in some cooperative stepfamilies, intergenerational families, and coparenting alliances among lesbians and gay men) have not yet been studied. As noted by Professor Judith Stacey of New York University:
What the facts say" is ... "the best scenario for kids is a loving mom and dad. [SEP] Warren Farrell // is humans' biological propensity to respond defensively to personal criticism. To address children's loss of their father in child custody cases, Farrell wrote "Father and Child Reunion", a meta-analysis of research about what is the optimal family arrangement for children of divorce. "Father and Child Reunion's" findings include some 26 ways in which children of divorce do better when three conditions prevail: equally-shared parenting (or joint custody); close parental proximity; and no bad-mouthing. His research for "Father and Child Reunion" provided the basis for his frequently appearing in the first decade of the 21st Century as an expert witness in
What the facts say" is ... "the best scenario for kids is a loving mom and dad. [SEP] The Loud House // treat these characters any differently, or even introduce them with a heavy asterisk about their marital status." "The Frisky"s Tai Gooden mentioned that "kids who have two dads (or moms) will be more than thrilled to see a family they can identify with on TV." "Time" reported that "people are thrilled about Nickelodeon's decision" to include a gay couple. Some groups, by contrast, have criticized the introduction of the characters. The One Million Moms division of the American Family Association objected to scenes featuring the McBride parents and unsuccessfully pushed for the episode in which they first appeared to be
What the facts say" is ... "the best scenario for kids is a loving mom and dad. [SEP] Jason Lewis (Minnesota politician) // Lewis has suggested that households headed by gay parents may be harming their children and that more research is needed to confirm that they are not harming the children: I'm still not convinced that it's a great idea for children to grow up with two moms or two dads. Call me a Neanderthal. I'm not saying it's bad. I don't know. There hasn't been some longitudinal long-term studies on this. But we've rushed to this judgment that growing up with two mommies is a wonderful experience. I don't know. Maybe it's not so wonderful. Maybe it could harm the kid.
What the facts say" is ... "the best scenario for kids is a loving mom and dad. [SEP] Stay-at-home dad // values as the mother. These are the same advantages for the father from having a stay-at-home mom arrangement. A survey conducted by Minnesota's Department for Families and Children's Services shows that men consider child care to be far more important than a paycheck. Of 600 dads surveyed, a majority said their most important role was to "show love and affection" to kids. "Safety and protection" came next, followed by "moral guidance", "taking time to play", and "teaching and encouraging". "Financial care" finished last. Many men are now becoming more involved in their children's lives, and because of that many men
What the facts say" is ... "the best scenario for kids is a loving mom and dad. [SEP] Tales of a Fourth Grade Nothing // a commercial for the latter product. Although most of Warren's clients are happy with his work and company, he also had his share of failures, such as losing the Juicy-O account. A loving father who wants what is best for his family, he is more conservative in rearing his sons than Anne, particularly with Fudge. For example, when Fudge was going through a stage where he refused to eat at the table, Anne was worried sick but Warren settled the issue by saying "eat it or wear it", and when Fudge refused, he dumped a bowl of corn flakes over
What the facts say" is ... "the best scenario for kids is a loving mom and dad. [SEP] Best interests // on the basis that children are not resilient, and almost any change in a child's living situation would be detrimental to their well-being. Until the early 1900s, fathers were given custody of the children in case of divorce. Many U.S. states then shifted from this standard to one that completely favored the mother as the primary caregiver. In the 1970s, the Tender Years Doctrine was replaced by the best interests of the child as determined by family courts. Because many family courts continued to give great weight to the traditional role of the mother as the primary caregiver, application of
What the facts say" is ... "the best scenario for kids is a loving mom and dad. [SEP] Kids Can Say No! // proper and improper physical intimacy, which he calls "yes" and "no" feelings; a parent's hug is given as an example of a "yes" feeling. In vox populi segments, children give other examples of "yes" and "no" feelings; one child says that being tickled by his father is a "yes" feeling, and another says that being squeezed hard is a "no" feeling. Harris leads the children in a chant of "Go away!" as an exercise in how to respond to "no" feelings. He teaches the children about stranger danger, and that adults they know can also be a threat. The film
FDA advisory panel rejects J&J drug for acute coronary syndrome. [SEP] Management of acute coronary syndrome // favorable action on hemodynamic parameters and cardiac oxygen consumption. However, in patients presenting without ST elevation, morphine has been shown to have adverse events potential, and its use is considered acceptable only after inadequate pain relief by medication specific against angina. Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs are contraindicated for both categories of patients. All patients with acute coronary syndrome must immediately receive antiplatelet therapy, including aspirin and generally a second oral antiplatelet agent. Bleeding is the most important side-effect of antiplatelets. Aspirin inhibits platelet aggregation and formation of blood clots. It is effective across the entire spectrum of acute coronary syndromes, and
FDA advisory panel rejects J&J drug for acute coronary syndrome. [SEP] Acute coronary syndrome // 2006, there was a 17% reduction in hospital admissions for acute coronary syndrome. 67% of the decrease occurred in non-smokers. People with presumed ACS are typically treated with aspirin, clopidogrel or ticagrelor, nitroglycerin, and if the chest discomfort persists morphine. Other analgesics such as nitrous oxide are of unknown benefit. Angiography is recommended in those who have either new ST elevation or a new left bundle branch block on their ECG. Unless the person has low oxygen levels additional oxygen does not appear to be useful. If the ECG confirms changes suggestive of myocardial infarction (ST elevations in specific leads,
FDA advisory panel rejects J&J drug for acute coronary syndrome. [SEP] Management of acute coronary syndrome // which includes coronary angiography and, if necessary, revascularization with percutaneous coronary intervention or coronary artery bypass surgery. Medical therapy for acute coronary syndromes is based on drugs that act against ischemia and resultant angina and limit the infarct size (i.e., the area of myocardium that is affected), as well as drugs that inhibit clot formation. The latter include antiplatelet agents, which block the activation and aggregation of platelets (cellular blood components that contribute to clot formation), and anticoagulant agents (which attenuate the coagulation cascade). Long-term therapy in acute coronary syndrome survivors is targeted against recurrence and long term complications (secondary
FDA advisory panel rejects J&J drug for acute coronary syndrome. [SEP] Acute coronary syndrome // Cocaine associated ACS should be managed in a manner similar to other patients with acute coronary syndrome except beta blockers should not be used and benzodiazepines should be administered early. The TIMI risk score can identify high risk patients in non-ST segment elevation MI ACS and has been independently validated. Based on a global registry of 102,341 patients, the GRACE score estimates in-hospital, 6 months, 1 year, and 3 year mortality risk after a heart attack. GRACE Score 2.0 Calculator. The Killip classification consists of 4 classes based on clinical symptoms. It predicts 30-day mortality after myocardial infarction. The aim
FDA advisory panel rejects J&J drug for acute coronary syndrome. [SEP] Management of acute coronary syndrome // treated with fibrinolysis and those who do not undergo reperfusion treatment only clopidogrel is indicated. Prasugrel must not be given to patients with a history of ischemic stroke or aged 75 years or older. In patients with non-ST elevation acute coronary syndrome current guidelines also recommend immediate administration of dual antiplatelet therapy upon diagnosis; clopidogrel and ticagrelor are indicated in this setting, with ticagrelor considered superior for patients undergoing early invasive strategy (see later). However, emerging evidence questions this strategy. As with aspirin, it is necessary to administer a loading dose. Glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors are a class of intravenous antiplatelet
FDA advisory panel rejects J&J drug for acute coronary syndrome. [SEP] JNJ-42165279 // of severe adverse events, including a death. In response, Janssen announced that it was temporarily suspending dosing in its two Phase II clinical trials with JNJ-42165279, describing the decision as "precautionary measure follows safety issue with different drug in class". Janssen was emphatic that no serious adverse events had been reported in any of the clinical trials with JNJ-42165279 to date. The suspension is to remain in effect until more information is available about the BIA 10-2474 study. JNJ-42165279 JNJ-42165279 is a drug developed by Janssen Pharmaceutica which acts as a potent and selective inhibitor of the enzyme fatty acid
FDA advisory panel rejects J&J drug for acute coronary syndrome. [SEP] Eteplirsen // 2015 for drisapersen and February 26, 2016 for eteplirsen. Following FDA rejection of drisapersen, the agency announced a three-month time extension for its review of eteplirsen. The FDA panel decision was controversial because the FDA staff and the panel used a stricter standard of evidence than Sarepta and patient groups used. The FDA panel said that it was required by law to apply the standard of “substantial evidence” of effectiveness. This required randomized, controlled trials showing effectiveness of a meaningful clinical outcome, such as the ability to function in daily life. Sarepta and the patient groups wanted to use the
FDA advisory panel rejects J&J drug for acute coronary syndrome. [SEP] Acute coronary syndrome // angina and acute coronary syndrome is therefore empirical treatment with aspirin, a second platelet inhibitor such as clopidogrel, prasugrel or ticagrelor, and heparin (usually a low-molecular weight heparin), with intravenous nitroglycerin and opioids if the pain persists. The heparin-like drug known as fondaparinux appears to be better than enoxaparin. A blood test is generally performed for cardiac troponins twelve hours after onset of the pain. If this is positive, coronary angiography is typically performed on an urgent basis, as this is highly predictive of a heart attack in the near-future. If the troponin is negative, a treadmill exercise test or
FDA advisory panel rejects J&J drug for acute coronary syndrome. [SEP] Anticoagulant // drugs argatroban and dabigatran. An oral direct thrombin inhibitor, ximelagatran (Exanta) was denied approval by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in September 2004 and was pulled from the market entirely in February 2006 after reports of severe liver damage and heart attacks. In November 2010, dabigatran was approved by the FDA to treat atrial fibrillation. With regards to NOAC medication and invasive dental treatments, there has not been enough clinical evidence and experience to prove any reliable side-effects, relevance or interaction between these two. Further clinical prospective studies on NOACs are required to investigate the bleeding risk and haemostasis
FDA advisory panel rejects J&J drug for acute coronary syndrome. [SEP] Management of acute coronary syndrome // for use in acute coronary syndromes, clopidogrel, ticagrelor and prasugrel; all reduce platelet aggregation by inhibiting the P2Y receptor, a type of adenosine phosphate receptor, on the surface of platelets. Not all three of them are equally indicated in all types of acute coronary syndromes. In patients with ST elevation the choice of P2Y inhibitor depends on reperfusion strategy; for patients undergoing primary percutaneous coronary intervention ticagrelor and prasugrel are considered superior to clopidogrel, as they are more potent and have more rapid onset of action, at the cost of some increase in bleeding risk; for STEMI patients who are
Gene-editing Chinese scientist kept much of his work secret. [SEP] Lulu and Nana // to be HIV-positive and the woman, uninfected. The couples were recruited through a Beijing-based AIDS advocacy group called Baihualin. He kept the clinical trial secret from the scientific community, and, as of 28 November, it was unclear whether the participants had given truly informed consent. He, the researcher, took sperm and eggs from the couples, performed in vitro fertilization with them, and then edited the genomes of the embryos using CRISPR/Cas9. The editing targeted a gene, "CCR5", that codes for a protein that HIV uses to enter cells. He was trying to create a specific mutation in the gene, (CCR5
Gene-editing Chinese scientist kept much of his work secret. [SEP] He Jiankui // which he used CRISPR/Cas9 on mice, monkeys, and around 300 human embryos. He's human gene-editing clinical trial was conducted without public discussion in the scientific community; it was first made public on 25 November 2018 when "MIT Technology Review" published a story about the work, based on documents that had been posted earlier that month on the Chinese clinical trials registry. After that story posted, He released a promotional video on YouTube and the next day the "Associated Press" published an interview with He. He had engaged a public relations firm as well. He eventually presented the work on 27
Gene-editing Chinese scientist kept much of his work secret. [SEP] He Jiankui // condemning He Jiankui and his team for intentionally flouting international ethical norms by doing such irresponsible work, and criticizing that He's "project was largely carried out in secret, the medical necessity for inactivation of CCR5 in these infants is utterly unconvincing, the informed consent process appears highly questionable, and the possibility of damaging off-target effects has not been satisfactorily explored". NIH claims no support for the use of gene-editing technologies in human embryos. Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences published an announcement on journal Lancet, stating that they "are opposed to any clinical operation of human embryo genome editing for reproductive
Gene-editing Chinese scientist kept much of his work secret. [SEP] He Jiankui // violation of Chinese law. In December 2018, following public outcry regarding his work, He appeared to have gone missing. China’s Southern University of Science and Technology denied the widespread rumors that he had been detained. In 2010, at Rice University, He and Michael W. Deem published a paper describing some details of the CRISPR protein; this paper was part of the early work on the CRISPR/Cas9 system, before it had been adopted as a gene editing tool. In 2017, He gave a presentation at Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory describing work he did at Southern University of Science and Technology, in
Gene-editing Chinese scientist kept much of his work secret. [SEP] He Jiankui // about He's conduct were "particularly acute in China, where scientists are sensitive to the country's reputation as the Wild West of biomedical research". Geneticist Eric Topol stated, "This is far too premature ... We're dealing with the operating instructions of a human being. It's a big deal." Nobel prize-winning biologist David Baltimore considered the work "irresponsible". Developmental biologist Kathy Niakan of the Francis Crick Institute said, "If true...this would be a highly irresponsible, unethical and dangerous use of genome editing technology." Medical ethicist Julian Savulescu of the University of Oxford noted, "If true, this experiment is monstrous." Bioethicist Hank Greely
Gene-editing Chinese scientist kept much of his work secret. [SEP] Li Zaiping // effective recombinant hepatitis B vaccine. In another project, he utilized a secretive gene expression system in "Escherichia coli" to produce human EGF and human GM-CSF, both of which have been approved for medical use. He also identified a new gene called liver-related putative tumor suppressor (LPTS) in chromosome 8p23. He published more than 200 research papers and won more than 10 national and international prizes including the first-class National Prize of Progress in Science and Technology (three times) and the Ho Leung Ho Lee Prize for Life Sciences. He was elected as an academician of the Chinese Academy of Engineering
Gene-editing Chinese scientist kept much of his work secret. [SEP] Yang Huanming // the Chinese Academy of Sciences and moved their headquarters to Shenzhen as the first citizen-managed, non-profit research institution in China. Yang Huanming Yang Huanming (; born 6 October 1952), also known as Henry Yang, is one of China's leading genetics researchers. He is Chairman and co-founder of the Beijing Genomics Institute, formerly of the Chinese Academy of Sciences. Yang received his B. Sc from Hangzhou University (now part of Zhejiang University) in 1978, followed by a master's degree in biology in 1982 from the Nanjing Railroad Medical Institute (now Southeast University). Yang earned his Ph.D in 1988 in the Institute
Gene-editing Chinese scientist kept much of his work secret. [SEP] Li Zaiping // Li Zaiping Li Zaiping (; 17 August 1925 – 30 May 2018) was a Chinese molecular biologist considered a pioneer in genetic science and engineering in China. His research team was the first in China to sequence a virus genome. He also utilized "E. coli" to produce human EGF and GM-CSF, and identified the gene LPTS. He was a professor at the Shanghai Institute of Biochemistry and Cell Biology and an academician of the Chinese Academy of Engineering. Li was born in Beijing on 17 August 1925. He graduated from the Department of Chemistry of Peking University in 1947, and
Gene-editing Chinese scientist kept much of his work secret. [SEP] Li Zaiping // in 1996. Li died at Zhongshan Hospital in Shanghai on 30 May 2018, aged 92. Li Zaiping Li Zaiping (; 17 August 1925 – 30 May 2018) was a Chinese molecular biologist considered a pioneer in genetic science and engineering in China. His research team was the first in China to sequence a virus genome. He also utilized "E. coli" to produce human EGF and GM-CSF, and identified the gene LPTS. He was a professor at the Shanghai Institute of Biochemistry and Cell Biology and an academician of the Chinese Academy of Engineering. Li was born in Beijing on 17
Gene-editing Chinese scientist kept much of his work secret. [SEP] Hou Yunde // served as the head of planning expert committee on biotechnological field of Program 863. After the restrictions on businesses were relaxed in the 90-s, Hou started one of the first Chinese genetic engineering drug companies. During his lifetime he authored more than 500 articles and books. He was awarded the 2017 Highest Science and Technology Award. Hou Yunde Hou Yunde (; born 13 July 1929) is a Chinese virologist, geneticist and a genetic engineer. After graduating from the Wuhan Medical School he studied at the in the USSR for 4 years, where he authored 17 medical papers and earned a